the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, the vice-president, the baroness ashton, is very honoured. the european parliament has been closely involved in the internal and external developments in iran. the iranian delegation has been in dialogue with representatives of the government and civil society and has been preparing for a delegation visit earlier this month, which was unfortunately cancelled at short notice. the dissatisfaction with the rigged elections and the steady increase in state repression and violence has led representatives of iranian civil society to turn to the european parliament. they are seeking our support in their courageous efforts to secure democratic freedoms and are appealing to us to take our own fundamental values seriously. the protests are diverse and ongoing. the iranian government is called upon to provide political answers to these unresolved issues, but instead we are seeing an increase in serious human rights violations such as torture and rape of detainees, we are hearing about killings of protesters, unfair trials are taking place. many iranians expect us to look beyond foreign policy and the nuclear program, to look and act when it comes to the political situation in iran. it is welcome that countries such as spain and ireland are willing to issue unbureaucratic visas to persecuted human rights defenders and thus help them in the face of acute danger. other member states should follow this example and the commission is also called upon to help those who are politically persecuted quickly. we can only do so much from the outside. the decisive change must come from within the country itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used for the purposes of the censorship of the media. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the information provided by the member states. however, it is unclear which sanctions will have the desired impact on the political leadership. if sanctions lead to a deterioration in the living conditions of many, such as the sanctioning of petrol, then they miss their target and open the possibility for the government to blame the so-called enemy country for the increasing economic distress. it is therefore of great importance to develop targeted and intelligent sanctions, possibly also against individuals. the council can, for example, put individual persons responsible for the repressive measures of the last few months on the index. in the eu's iran policy, it is crucial that a double track policy is made and that it is adhered to. we must seek political dialogue despite the rejections. isolating iran would not help the people there or their neighbors in the region.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's süddeutsche zeitung reports that in tehran yesterday, monday, the public prosecutor's office demanded the death penalty for five opposition figures. the five opposition members are ali mehrnia, 17, parviz varmazyari, 54, majid rezaii, alireza mabavi and ali massoumi, according to amnesty international. when a regime like that in tehran, which is not only anachronistic, but which uses the death penalty, stoning and other means against its own people, and we as the european union do not take the necessary steps, then we are guilty above all of those who are supposed to build a reasonable society there, of the children who are then raised in conditions that are very different from what we would wish for a future society, in agreement with our colleague who is sadly no longer here. i would like to see the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy make a strong and clear statement here, and that we not only call for sanctions against iran, but also enforce them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it seems to me to be a bit symptomatic for the eu in general, but also for parliament in particular, that we are having reflexively discussions about situations in countries whose situation is not new. the fact is that very often events overnight cause us to be thrown into political demands, which i sometimes find somewhat questionable. i think it is not in our best interests to let a failed air attack lead us into a general debate on yemen. we should be clear that we would do well to think of a strategy for how we would deal with this situation. i also believe that the situation in yemen needs a precise analysis, namely that it is a failed state, with a government that no longer controls large parts of the country. we should analyse for ourselves what risks this poses for europe. the risks seem to be that terrorists are being trained there, and the risks also seem to be occurring off the coast of yemen, where piracy is clearly taking place. it is therefore up to us - and perhaps also to mrs ashton - to consider what we can do about these risks. in my view, the question may be, how can we support the government in yemen to regain control of the country and contain these risks? all other discussions on the long-term development of the country must of course also be held. but i don't think it really makes sense and that we will be taken seriously if we now start a catalogue of demands across all policy issues - from media freedom to women's rights - here in parliament. this will not lead to the goal in yemen, but we should concentrate on what concrete help we can give in the current situation to solve an acute problem.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – i will continue a bit on what the previous speaker said. yemen is certainly not a new crisis: it has been deteriorating for decades, and the worsening political situation was clearly stated in the commission’s mid-term review. i think we really need to focus on the political context: the longstanding conflict in the north between the government and the houthis, the unrest in the south, you mentioned these – and now the northern conflict is spreading in the region and concerning saudi arabia and iran. so the question is: what, precisely, to do. i have heard calls just now for the stability instrument for a csdp mission to pour money into training more people, but i think that this is not sufficient as an approach – at least it is not a crisis response, unless we accept the concept of permanent crisis. i think we should push for greater involvement by the gulf cooperation council in yemen, not just saudi arabia. we need this organisation to bring together the various yemeni parties, the government, the opposition, southern secessionists, houthis and regional actors in some kind of peace-like process, and i think that should be supported and financed by the stability instrument for example; that is what i think the stability instrument should be for. if we have another csdp mission and another round of stability instrument training without a political process leading somewhere, i do not think it will help us. i really urge you to use the stability instrument more as an early-warning political instrument to move on a political process, and to support and finance that. i think that that would be, from my perspective, something worthwhile. i would like to add another point: gender equality has been mentioned, and you raised that, and i think we really should invest heavily in that. population growth is one of the main concerns in those countries, and, as we all know, we will not solve that issue until we have family planning, and that means women’s rights. i know that you will not push for major women’s rights, but i think gender equality and especially family planning is crucial if we are now considering what to do in order to help yemeni society.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the media is already mobilizing for a third front in the war on terror. however, at the moment, the strategic options of the us and eu states for yemen and the horn of africa region are not really open. the fact is that the ruling elites around president salih have for years been brutally discriminating and oppressing the shiite population in the north and waging a war against the separatist movement in the south in the territory of the former people's democratic republic of yemen, which is causing great suffering to the population. the significant links between the shia population and al-qaida cannot be substantiated and thus serve the corrupt and de facto autocratic government in particular as a pretext for obtaining massive military aid. the support of this government for the building up of security forces should be withheld it is only adding fuel to the fire. the allocation of funds must benefit all regions, irrespective of their religious, ethnic or political affiliation. a process of reconciliation must be initiated and promoted, involving the un and all the actors on the ground, including in neighbouring countries such as iran. there can be no unilateral support from the government against the insurgents. the atalanta mission should not be continued and extended, especially to the yemeni mainland, because it would only serve the geostrategic interests of the western industrial countries. we should do everything we can to ensure that the eu does not follow the totally wrong path of the us escalation strategy in yemen.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in recent months, the situation of the people and the overall political and economic situation in yemen have deteriorated dramatically. we europeans must therefore do everything possible to ensure that the country finally stabilizes. madam vice-president, i would like to ask you to prevent yemen from becoming another afghanistan. we must do everything in our power to combat international terrorism. but we can only do that if we also support a peace process in this country. we must create peace in the region, we must support the government's peace efforts. the yemeni government can also be made to understand that there must be no discrimination in the country - only then can there be peace. peace means that there must be democratic structures, that minorities must preserve their rights. this is our european path, which may be different from other paths. i ask you to do your utmost in your new role to follow this european path with us. without political stability, this country has no chance. if there is political stability, then the local economy can also be healthy, then you can also build an economy and give people a perspective. i'm asking you to be strong for this. i also ask you to use your influence to ensure that the aid forces on the ground can provide humanitarian aid. there are over 130,000 refugees from somalia in the country. it's a terrible situation on the ground. i'm putting all my hopes in you to exert your influence there. i would also like to ask you to stand up for the six hostages, the european citizens - one british citizen and five german citizens - who are being held hostage in yemen. maybe you can help free them, too. thank you very much.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not my group supports the report by mrs joly. we call for consideration to be given to the following issues, among others: the absorption of the consequences of climate change and the necessary adaptation measures for the acp states; the concern of acp states that regional negotiations between the eu and groups of acp states undermine solidarity within the acp community; and the possibility of supporting, on the basis of the cotonou agreement, necessary investments in public services and public infrastructure with ib credits. we also oppose the inclusion of quotas for the return of migrants from the eu to the acp states in these negotiations. the first revision of the cotonou agreement included the political dimension, now it is the parliamentary dimension, and so it is not understandable for us to reduce the meeting of the acp assembly to one meeting a year.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report because i believe it is important to deepen cooperation between the european union and the acp states in the framework of the partnership agreements. i would point out, however, that the wording of this report is 'protection of sexual and reproductive health'. but what is behind this designation? firstly, does this mean ensuring the physical and mental well-being of people in all areas of sexuality and reproduction, for example by combating sexual violence and mutilation? secondly, does it mean access to information on so-called family planning? or, third, does it include abortion? the commission and the council have in the past made it clear to meps that so-called 'sexual and reproductive health' does not include abortion. i see it the same way. i therefore stress that the term 'sexual and reproductive health of women' mentioned in the report is not related to abortion and propose that the treaty text clarify this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their commitment and good cooperation, because this is a really important subject. as we have said, human trafficking is perhaps the most serious form of crime. the figures from europol cited in the request show that there is no improvement in this respect, on the contrary. the figures for forced labour in particular are increasing, while trafficking in women remains unchanged. it is therefore clear that we need urgent and, above all, very consistent action. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. a very important point is to raise awareness - also among the population within europe - that human trafficking takes place in every country in the heart of europe. here we must focus on education, as we did in germany at the world cup, for example, to highlight the problem of forced prostitution and show that it really happens on the ground, and to stimulate this discussion in the population, so that there is a sensitivity to help the victims. my second point is victim protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the rights and freedoms that it has granted to them.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not human trafficking is indeed a scourge of the present, fuelled by poverty and ignorance. the worst form is the trafficking of children, very often linked to sexual abuse. we, the gue/ngl group, believe that the commission needs to act urgently. one of the most important prerequisites for successful action against trafficking in human beings is to strengthen the rights of victims. only if this is done - and not only by means of punitive measures - can human trafficking be tackled at all. we need very clear rules to ensure that no sanctions are imposed on victims of trafficking in human beings in the context of trafficking in human beings. these victims need effective protection and support, for example, before, during and after criminal proceedings in which they are witnesses. this must also be explicitly stated in the pre-concern phase and when witness statements are withdrawn. long-term witness protection programmes are urgently needed. what is also important to me is that free counselling should be provided to all victims of human trafficking, not just children. and with children, it is necessary - to get back to that - to enable the use of child advocates. there must be mandatory guidelines to strengthen prevention, for example through training for lawyers, police officers, judges and counsellors. i am glad that the spanish presidency is taking up this matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the spanish presidency, mr zapatero, has an ambitious programme. this is the program you described. they have identified four main priorities: greater energy security, more investment in information technology, more education and training, and the creation of a european economic government to ensure that these projects are implemented. that's the right approach. this will lead europe into a new phase. because the challenges facing this continent are not that we hold parliamentary sessions or hold summits one after the other. we've hosted many summits in the past. the summits do not solve the problems, they describe them. what we need is for the solutions to the problems to be actually implemented in the member states. (applause from the centre) the reactions to your proposal for a business government show that this is precisely the problem. what was the failure of the lisbon strategy? not that it wasn't feasible. no, it was feasible, the lisbon strategy has failed because of the reluctance of its member states to keep their own promises. the new approach, the fresh wind that you want to bring to european policy with this ambitious programme, is therefore right. the ancient structures we've seen so far remind me a little of the beautiful horse rosinante of don quixote, who himself thought it was a racehorse. actually, it was an old fence. rosinante is not the 21st century. we need new approaches, so you're on the right track. what europe needs is a little bit of the spanish model being transferred to europe. the reason why we - and i say this for once - as socialists are expressly behind you is because we believe that your government in spain is an avant-garde government. they have managed to give the country a huge modernisation boost against much resistance and with much courage. we have a lot of respect for that. (applause from the centre) if you act with the same energy and the same determination at european level, you will bring this modernisation momentum to europe. i think it is courageous when a head of government says that for example domestic violence is not a problem of the nation states but a problem of society as a whole, that we have everywhere, and that in europe, in a highly developed civilized society, we must not consider violence against women as a petty crime but as a violation of human rights. that's right, you're right. (applause from the centre) the political reanimation we need in europe is very much linked to our expectations of your presidency, mr zapatero. i would therefore add that what we need in europe is also more control in the economy. i want to illustrate this with an example where social cohesion in society is destroyed because there is not enough control or not enough courage to control. when we talk about regulating the financial markets and the banking system, we must also talk about the fact that the same banks that received hundreds of billions of euros of state money a year ago to ensure their survival, are now using that money not to make loans, but to speculate with this money of the citizens and to increase their profits. it destroys confidence in the economic system! it destroys social cohesion! and that is why part of your programme to finally implement financial market controls is an important point which we as socialists fully support. (applause from the centre) the socialist and democratic group, mr zapatero, supports your presidency. i think what you've presented here is a really hopeful approach. i also hope that the commission will act with the same intensity and with the same political orientation as your presidency. what we can do to help get the commission on the right track is what we will do over the next six months and beyond. we hope that these presidencies of 18 months will not lead to a completely different programme after six months, but to continuity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. good luck with that, mr. zapatero. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr. prime minister, you are a brilliant rhetorician. but what do you have to say to us? what was your message? what was the content? i have heard many speeches - you are my thirty-second prime minister - but i have rarely heard anything so unrelated. in view of the crisis, the forthcoming summit, the necessary rigidity of financial market regulation, the fact that the council has left the commission alone in recent months: where is your approach? mr schulz must have been in another room when he proposed the spanish model of your government as a model here! europe cannot afford 20% unemployment, let us be clear! what's so great about this spanish model? how did you respond to the crisis? how do you coordinate here? we demand your leadership! then you've got us behind you. but with something so uncommitted! of course we're against domestic violence, who isn't? the only concrete proposal they made was the electric car in view of the crisis, the summit! so, mr prime minister! and that the president of the commission has to read the treaty to you on economic policy coordination, and you have obviously listened to that very attentively for the first time - that is strange! all i can say is: follow the recommendations of your party friend almunia. the council has adopted the stability and growth pact despite the council's opposition. he's the model! help him to secure this stability and growth pact! i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. spain is now holding the presidency of the european union for the fourth time. you know how to work with the european parliament in very different situations. we now have the treaty of lisbon, which means that the european parliament is now your main point of contact. in your programme you state that you want to anchor the eu where the eu derives its legitimacy, namely with the european citizens. that's a very big goal. the only way to achieve this is through the representation of the european citizens, namely the parliaments. i am therefore pleased that you say that cooperation between national parliaments, the parliaments of the eu member states and the european parliament is at the heart of this kind of approach. they want to bring parliaments closer together to bring citizens closer together. that's good. you have a great responsibility here, because you are the first presidency since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and other presidencies will follow your example. they provide the blueprint, so to speak. i would like the next presidencies to be able to compare themselves with you in the structures of cooperation. i wish you success.
acting president of the council. - mr president, we are dealing with a council declaration on a programme, an agreement between the european union and the united states, as you know, for the monitoring of the financing of terrorism and, therefore, the exchange and the provision of financial data for that purpose, which i believe is a goal shared by all. this arrangement has worked for the last few months. it has worked well and it is about continuing the flow of information for the terrorist financing monitoring programme. this agreement formally expires on 31 january. the council, during the previous swedish presidency, therefore felt the need to sign an agreement to enable the monitoring programme for the financing of terrorism to be maintained. therefore, on 30 november 2009, the council adopted a decision on the signing of the agreement to which i have referred, the psft (programme for the monitoring of the financing of terrorism). it's a provisional agreement. it therefore has a short duration, which in principle expires on 31 october 2010. the provisional agreement, which was agreed by the council last year, will therefore expire, unless this house, the european parliament, takes a decision in 2010. that is the situation at the moment and what has happened since then is that there has been no communication from the commission of the content of that agreement, which is not yet known to the european parliament, but i can tell you that it will be next week, on 25 january. the european parliament will be informed on 25 january. that agreement, duly translated, will be sent to this house and forwarded to parliament for approval. it has not been done before for the following reason given to us by the commission: the commission has not completed the corresponding translations and therefore the council has not received those translations from the commission. as i have just said, these various language versions are already being finalized and, as you know, only when these language versions, which are being prepared by the commission, are available can the council transmit this document, this agreement, to parliament. in addition, in the future, and with a view to a final agreement, not a provisional one, the commission intends to make recommendations in this respect, for the preparation of a long-term agreement, not an agreement which ends in october next year, like this one we are talking about, but a long-term agreement. and this long-term agreement must be negotiated, it must be concluded on new legal bases. the european parliament has full say in the decisions provided for in the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament already has a full say in these agreements and will do so in the future agreement, on which the commission has not yet made any recommendations. i would like to say to you, in conclusion, that we are faced with a matter of extraordinary importance. we are faced with a procedure, a programme to combat terrorism. the detroit incident has shown that this danger is present, this threat persists and therefore the member states cannot afford to stop maintaining this flow of financial data to the so-called psft. this was explained by judge bruguière in his filmed speech to this parliament in november, in an in camera speech. he said that in his view, several member states had been able to benefit from and used that information provided to the united states to detect and prevent terrorist activities. this led the council, during the previous swedish presidency, to apply a new agreement provisionally, in order to avoid the expiry of the current agreement on 31 january and thus to eliminate any possibility of information flow. it was the only option the council had to do so and, of course, the european parliament's position of collecting information is understandable. this has not happened, as i say, because of the delay in the european commission's translation of the relevant texts.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the whole debate was initially characterised by the frustration and anger felt by many in the european parliament, because we felt that the council was once again rapidly creating facts before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i am therefore grateful that the view has been taken that it is good to listen to the members of parliament, to apply the new treaty of lisbon now when it is ratified and to give us the opportunity to judge whether this treaty is being applied or not. the epp group will apply clear decision criteria in this legislative process, if we tackle it now. there are two sides to this coin. on the one hand, we as the epp have a clear principle that european data - wherever it is stored - must be subject to european data protection standards. we have a principle that we want a right of action for people who feel they have been treated unfairly and feel at the mercy of data control. we have a basic principle that data is only shared in individual cases and only in cases of suspicion, and not just in general. these are points that are important to us. the other side of the coin is that we want cooperation with the united states of america. we want to work with our partners in the fight against terrorism. we do not want to see individual countries - contracts should expire - come under particular pressure, as belgium for example, because then perhaps bilateral work will be done. that is something to consider. we, the european people's party, will make this assessment when the legislative proposal comes. i would ask the council and the commission once again not to play for time but to send the text now so that we can deal with it. we as a parliament are quick to act and will be able to deal with this quickly. it is then the task of the minister - and i say this very clearly: the minister of the interior - to convince us as members of parliament that these methods, which are now provided for in this treaty, are also necessary for the fight against terrorism. we are open to the process, but the work of persuasion is still to be done by the executive, by the ministers.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not it is a serious, serious legislative process, which is now beginning with the treaty of lisbon. mr president, if you are telling us that the interpretation of the language or the absence of it in such a sensitive area is causing delays which we must accept, then i must say, with all due respect to you, diego, that this is a defensive statement intended to calm us down a little. but that can't be taken seriously. i'll just take that as a no and leave it at that. the issue is something quite different: the non-participation of the european parliament. in the case of international agreements of such far-reaching importance, this is simply unacceptable. what we want is for parliament to be seriously involved from day one in the implementation of this agreement. why would you do that? mr buzek, the president of this house, has very precisely stated in his letter: the swift agreement provides for wide-ranging interference with fundamental civil liberties, which are guaranteed by constitutional law in most member states and by the charter of fundamental rights. but if there are executive measures under such an agreement which provide for interference with fundamental civil liberties, then the legal protection of citizens against such interference must be absolutely guaranteed. this means that data protection must be guaranteed in all respects, that data must be deleted after a certain plausible period, and that the means of redress available to citizens in the event of a breach of their fundamental rights must be precisely defined. one of the constituent elements of the rule of law is that citizens can protect themselves against the arbitrariness of the state. the european union cannot override this legal tradition, which is rooted in 27 countries, by referring to non-existent language versions. if we are serious about building the rule of law at european level, then we must also transfer the model of the need to intervene for reasons of security on the one hand, but the legitimate protection of citizens on the other, to the european level. the council must therefore explain to us what the added value of the swift agreement is if it is to be provisionally put into effect now, as the council has requested. i do not want to refer to the data breaches of the countless security services of the united states of america. you stuff a little explosives in your underpants and fly across the atlantic. this is the result of the intensive work of the american intelligence services in the security sector. it can't be that. i wonder why we have to operate in this fast-track procedure when the eu-us interim legal assistance agreement, which came into force on 1 february, contains article 4 which describes precisely how bank data should be transmitted in cases of justified suspicion. this means that there is no protection-oriented added value from the entry into force of the swift agreement. that is why this acceleration pressure is incomprehensible, and that is why we are asking the council to send the relevant documents. we will consult with the necessary speed and bring the parliamentary procedure to a conclusion, because we want security, not only for the security bodies, but also for the citizens who are supposed to be protected by these security bodies. i think that is the point of this agreement, but then we also want it to be passed as a sensible law.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the whole of parliament's anger is now directed at the new spanish presidency. take it for the rest of the council, but i'm already counting you as involved. i am annoyed that the commission representatives are not in seats 21 and 22, because if i understand the situation correctly, the commission would have had the duty to speed up the whole thing after parliament had asked for the approval procedure to be launched. the commission has, however, taken a slim line and has stayed out of the debate. i do not want to repeat what my colleagues have said, but i would like to point out that i considered it highly risky for the council to put this provisional swift agreement into effect without parliament having voted on what you want to put before us. i thought that the procedure - if you go ahead with this by 1 february in the open air, in the pig's gallop, as martin schulz has rightly described the whole procedure - was not only a provocation of parliament but a breach of the treaties, a breach of the treaty of lisbon, which has just entered into force, which is irresponsible. they have every opportunity to exchange urgent information in cases of urgency through bilateral legal agreements with the united states and with any country in the world with which such agreements exist. so there's no hurry! i would like to emphasize once again that the citizens of the eu are eager to see how we are going to deal with the lisbon treaty, which we have so much praised. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have one more request. i have just been informed by text message that several language versions of the swift agreement have already been published. please tell us which language versions have been published in the official journal and when and why these language versions have not yet been submitted to parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i apologize for speaking again. it's a rare occurrence in my life, but we're not at the fair. mr president, the agreement was published in the official journal of the european union on 13 january. it is not your fault, but if you say to us: 'i must first find out in which language versions this thing is available', then i must say again that this is not a leisure event for the mutual amusement of members of parliament and ministers. this is a legislative chamber where serious work is needed! i would like to say something to you, not to the spanish presidency, but to the council: the way the council is dealing with these matters shows that it is looking at parliament's shoelaces. now is the time to tell the council that these games are over. there is a serious legal procedure in europe, and this naturally means that all the files, all the dossiers in all the language versions are available at the beginning of the procedure, and not that we have to go looking for the files after the alleged end with the wish-list. this is not a serious procedure. i now ask you to tell us what language versions were available when the agreement was published in the official journal on 13 january. i want to know that now, on a very official basis, for the sake of our group!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in and after copenhagen, there has been a lot of talk about changing the rules at the un. i suggest that we change the rules in our house so that such fringe groups as mr griffin do not speak at the beginning but at the very end, where they belong in this political spectrum, at least not in the first round. ladies and gentlemen, of course, copenhagen was a disappointment. many of our demands and the expectations of the citizens have definitely not been met. i would like to add a point to what some have already said: we want an international agreement on aviation and maritime emissions. unfortunately, copenhagen has made no progress at all in this matter. it was not even mentioned in the copenhagen accord. this is a disappointing result, especially since we know that each year we lose naturally leads to the need to increase our efforts. the later we start, the bolder and stronger we have to respond. and of course, it gets harder every year. it's like a serious illness, the sooner you intervene, the milder the treatment. that's why this is a disappointment. but we should not view it negatively. this morning i was asked if the issue of climate protection was now politically dead. it's not that. it must go on, and so do the people. we should look at what positive things actually happened in copenhagen. i would like to take two small examples, namely the commitment by two developing countries, the maldives and costa rica, to become climate neutral in the next ten years. the whole world - europe and the rest of the world - can take that as a guide. now these are small states. but if i take brazil as a large country, it's also remarkable what happened there. that's why we should analyze our mistakes, not be so arrogant, just carry on as before. but we should not go back to the drawing board, but join forces with those around the world who want to make progress on climate change. the game must no longer be between the developed countries and the developing countries, but between the countries which have understood what is at stake and the rest of the world, which is hopefully getting smaller and smaller.
mr president, madam president of the council! i was in seville last weekend for the informal meeting of the environment ministers. it was one of the first council meetings under the spanish presidency, and you were unable to attend because of a sad family matter, but your secretary of state, teresa ribeira, has represented you very well. the whole meeting was also very well organized, and the commitment of the spanish presidency to this matter was felt. i am not sure that the council will be able to accept this amendment. the council of ministers is divided. the countries are not at all agreed on how to proceed. and that's not a good sign. it will be your task, your responsibility, to bring the 27 member states together. i think that we in the european union must do three things after copenhagen: first, we must regain global leadership on climate change, second, we must demonstrate credibility in the commitments we have made, and third, we urgently need to win new partners on the way to mexico. regaining the lead: i agree with all those who have said here that our pledge to reduce co2 by 30% should be resumed now. i would like to see us report to the un secretariat in bonn on 31 january this 30% instead of the old 20%. if we depend on the efforts of others to do the same, it will take forever and will not work in mexico either. the following are the main points: the 7.2 billion euros have yet to be put into effect before mexico. the countries in africa must realise that the first steps are already being taken. and to win partners: i hope that we will develop a climate diplomacy and, with the help of the african union in particular, find enough partners in latin america and asia to reach a global agreement in mexico.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the un climate conference has failed because of the hard-line self-interest policies of the rich industrial nations. the livelihoods of billions of people in developing countries and in island nations threatened with extinction are threatened. there is no agreement on how to limit further global warming effectively. the eu has played poker in the interests of its national businesses and the profits of the corporations. the target of reducing greenhouse gases in eu countries by 30% by 2020 was not met in time. to make better climate targets dependent on the achievements of other countries is to gamble with the future of humanity. the facts are clear: in 2007, china's per capita co2 emissions were 4.6 tonnes, germany's 9.7 tonnes and the us's 19.1 tonnes. we urgently need climate justice for all of humanity. the industrialized and emerging countries must agree on a binding agreement with concrete and ambitious targets in mexico city next year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in this copenhagen convention, two per cent, accepted by 180 member states, but not legally binding. not much of what was done here is left. it went wrong in copenhagen. it's also a defeat. it is important to describe the situation precisely so that you have a chance to think about it carefully and then move on. i'm a little startled by some of the words in this room. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. just going on and on and on is not going to be the answer. the reasons were different. have we really thought soberly and fairly together about all the questions that were necessary? how did we deal with the questions from colleagues, whether rightly or wrongly, who said: we have critical questions, climate sceptical questions? how did we deal with this in the committee on climate change when colleagues said: we would also like to hear the other view, the opposite position of scientists? what chance did you have to say that? and we have to at least discuss calmly, no matter what our position, how to deal with the recent evidence that colleagues have just presented that the eppc has just been wrong on the issue of glacier melting? a second set of questions must also be answered. are the instruments we're using correct? there are always new timetables, always more percentages, always new rules and regulations. this rather bureaucratic approach. has not mrs ek just been right, when she emphasized very strongly that technology, innovation, market mechanisms - that is the way forward. other states are going in different directions. it's not like they're not doing anything. maybe a little more openness, a little more thoughtfulness is also a chance to make a bigger impact. i wish i could, but i don't know how to.
acting president of the council. - i think there is a further question which deals with this very subject. i would ask the honourable member to wait until i have time to reply and i would therefore like to answer the question on the agenda jointly, on that very point. it is question no 9 on the list i have, or no 8 on the current list, from mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou: the economic situation in greece. acting president of the council. - question no 9 on the list i have, or question no 8 on the current list, by mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou: the economic situation in greece.
acting president of the council. - the council has always reiterated that the european perspective of the western balkans is certainly part of the foreign policy orientation, in this case the neighbourhood policy, and even the enlargement policy of the european union. the need to respect a level playing field was thus recently reaffirmed at the council meeting in december 2009 in the context of the stabilisation and association process for the balkans. as regards kosovo, the council has already noted that in this case the member states decided in accordance with national practice and international law. as you know, the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo is currently the subject of proceedings before the international court of justice. but in any case, the council has always taken kosovo into account in its policies on the balkans and there has been a consensus among the states and governments on this, for example, on visa liberalisation, from which kosovo must benefit, as the council has always understood. the commission communication on the means of strengthening the political and socioeconomic development of kosovo was also welcomed. the council invited the commission to take the necessary measures to support kosovo's progress in its rapprochement with the european union, in line with the european perspective of the region referred to above. the council encouraged the commission, and there was of course consensus, to initiate kosovo's participation in union programmes, by integrating kosovo into the framework of economic and fiscal surveillance, by activating the second component of the instrument for pre-accession assistance and by strengthening the dialogue of the stabilisation and association process. these conclusions were endorsed by the last european council of 10 and 11 december 2009.
minister! i have two specific questions: firstly, do you think that under the spanish presidency of the council we will be able to achieve something in the matter of the visa regime for kosovo, so that kosovo does not remain a prison in a free balkan country? and what will you do to persuade those member states which have not yet recognised kosovo to do so? but as i said, the first point is the visa regime.
madam president, i join those who said that a democratic opening has enabled the kind of progress we have not seen in some years and generated development where some years ago we thought this would be impossible. i also join those who said that it is very important that those democratic openings and reforms go on and are reinforced. i would also add that we have to look at how reforms are actually implemented – not just written down on paper in law, but how they are implemented in the field. since we apparently all agree that it is very good that there are reforms, we also need to support those reforms. this does not work if we just demand reforms but then say there is still no chance for turkey to have a fair accession process. if we want to have reforms, we need to show that introducing reforms will actually lead to some success and will lead to a fair accession process, with the aim of this accession process being accession by its nature. in this regard it is highly regrettable that, at the very moment that he took over the presidency, mr zapatero watered down considerably his earlier commitment to a fair accession process. since we as the eu have made this commitment, i think we have to stick to it: we have to be reliable in our foreign policy. so i would like to know if the representative of the presidency could clarify here how, if zapatero still sticks to his commitment, you will also try to implement this in the council with other members who are rather sceptical.
i have to say, madam president, i would remind you once again that the banning of the dtp means that in recent years 27 kurdish parties have been banned by the turkish governments. since the ban, we have heard that over a thousand people have been arrested. i think that in a country where parties are banned, you can no longer speak of democracy. the ban on 27 kurdish parties is almost a record attempt for the guinness book of records. but it is not just - and i would like to remind you of this at this point - about the minorities in turkey. there is a strike by the tobacco workers of tekel, which is very violent and is escalating at the moment. today, several thousand workers have gone on hunger strike to assert their rights. they are facing massive repression by the turkish government and the turkish authorities. this aspect must be taken into account and respected, because the protection of the rights of workers and trade unions is a constitutive part of democracy. the trade unions and the minorities in turkey are waiting for a clear and unequivocal statement from this house.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. turkey is of course an emotional issue, that is perfectly clear. the only thing to keep in mind in this context is what has been said many times today: the ban on political parties is of course ultimately unacceptable, except that the ban on political parties was not imposed by the government but by the judiciary. we must distinguish between these two in order to be fair and honest. but that's not what i meant. we europeans must ask ourselves where we are going. if we as a global player want to transport values not only economically - and i would like to stress this as a social democrat - but also politically, not only within europe but also beyond european borders to the world, then we ultimately need turkey to do this. it is also an opportunity for us to put forward what is required of us in a clear and strong way in relation to turkey. only then will we be able to start a process of democratization and succeed in the long run.
in writing. it is good that at least the european parliament is taking up the issue of the democratization of turkey! the commission and the council of ministers are in principle inclined to talk the situation down, however dramatic it may be. soft power, they call it. but where did this "soft power" lead? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now there's a party ban again. but there is also the continuing massive restriction of civil liberties, the oppression of religious minorities, to the point of attempting to expel or destroy them by bloodshed, the curtailing of freedom of information and the press, the attempt to destroy the opposition press and free trade unions, etc. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. but this also applies to turkey! when turkey entered the accession negotiations, it entered into a treaty with the eu to fulfil the copenhagen criteria. if it continues to refuse to do so, it must be asked whether it is even willing to become europeanised! and the 'softties' in the commission, the council presidency and the council of ministers should finally act consistently, instead of always opening new negotiating chapters!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the socialist group supports the initiative to develop a danube strategy. this is an important project for us, not least because it strengthens in an exemplary way the territorial cohesion which is newly included in the treaty of lisbon and perhaps also gives us the opportunity to clarify what we mean by territorial cohesion. i hope that mr rehn, among the many partners he has addressed, will agree that the european parliament should be involved in the elaboration of the common danube strategy. i am sorry that i did not hear the word 'european parliament' in your speech, but we shall be taking part in the debate accordingly. i am glad that we are having our first major debate here today in the plenary of this parliament. in addition to territorial cohesion, it is also important to make clear that there is crossborder cooperation, which we have always called for and supported in the area of cohesion policy and actually wanted to strengthen in this funding period. i hope that the danube strategy, among other things, will be even more successful in the coming years. i would like to point out that the danube strategy will bring european added value, which will be really tangible for the citizens living in this region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would urge that we really do not overload the strategy with too many priorities and that we concentrate. in my view, it is very important that we use the resources available more efficiently, that we build and prepare for example warning systems that warn of natural disasters such as floods, floods, but also respond to industrial accidents, for example, which cause pollution in the danube and the surrounding regions. there are common fields of work here. a successful danube strategy and successful projects in this region can also serve as an example for other regions. without always having to invent a new strategy, this can be an example of how to really solve problems together in a transnational european way and - if we succeed - to really involve third countries in such a strategy. we can also set in motion a neighbourhood policy which is important for all of us in the european union and should be promoted.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the importance of the danube region is already evident in the fact that 80 million people live in six eu member states and four neighbouring countries on the danube. here, 100 km above the black forest, the danube rises and flows into the black sea in the delta. we in the alde group therefore support the call for a danube strategy and we as a parliament are also making an important point here tonight by putting the danube strategy on the agenda. twenty years after the fall of the iron curtain, after the overcoming of the division of europe, the danube is once again a symbol of unity. from the eu's founding member germany, via austria, which joined in 1995, to the new member states in central and eastern europe, which joined in 2004, the danube also links neighbouring countries such as the candidate country croatia and other neighbouring countries with accession prospects. so here along the danube, the reunification of europe can be experienced in practice. it is now important, ladies and gentlemen - and this is something the alde group attaches great importance to - that appropriate measures be taken and that the danube strategy be made a priority of regional policy in the new funding period. there are many starting points that can be made here. one way is to increase the number of partnerships between smes. there are also, of course, major challenges in the area of infrastructure. this is particularly important to the alde group because the division of europe has of course cut off the historic transport links and has not modernised them. the development of the danube as an inland waterway, the modernisation and improvement of ports, and the closure of gaps and the creation of a continuous network are therefore ecological modes of transport. but there is still work to be done on the road and rail networks. it is also very important that we involve the municipalities and cities, the communities and the citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a good basis for cooperation with tunisia. the association agreement and the free trade agreement have been mentioned. the commissioner said that we were talking about the integration of the tunisian economy into the internal market. this is really as far as you can go with a country outside the eu, and therefore this is a stable basis. tunisia is a solid and friendly partner with the potential to further strengthen relations, to quote the commissioner again. it is precisely because we have these close relations that we can also discuss with our colleagues all the points which may concern us in one way or another. i myself am also in dialogue with my colleagues in the gallery, and i think we should talk about everything. but we should not throw out the child with the bath. we also have a situation in tunisia where this country, as an arab country that wants to develop secularly, is threatened by extremists. and if you take action against islamic extremists, i understand that too. but as for the others, i think we will make progress with the dialogue we are continuing to have. we can talk about anything with tunisia, because it is a reliable partner. that is why i look forward to continuing our dialogue.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not tunisia, egypt and malaysia have a great tradition of tolerance! the european parliament has been a great help to the people of malaysia, and it has been a great help to the people of the united states, and it has been a great help to the people of the united states. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force. we in europe, as a continent with a christian majority, have a duty to take a special stand for christians all over the world, because who else but us should do so? but of course it is about religious freedom itself, and i would like to thank, for example, the malaysian government for his majesty the yang di-pertuan agong and the prime minister making a clear statement on 9 january. we wish them success in their struggle for religious tolerance, which was and is exemplary in this country and which we must preserve in egypt, tunisia and malaysia as partners who speak out when it comes to human rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not when china got the olympics, after all the promises china made to improve the human rights situation, i was hoping in advance that maybe it would happen. but during and after the olympics, we unfortunately had to realize that the human rights situation has not improved but has worsened. and now, after the verdict against liu xiaobao, we have to even see that a gay party has been banned by the police, which clearly threatens a political ice age for dissidents, human rights activists and gays in china. we therefore call for the immediate release of liu xiaobao and other human rights defenders, and we call on china in particular - if it wants to become a recognised partner of the international community - to abandon its hysterical censorship and surveillance practices. this is particularly true of the internet. we cannot accept political filtering on the internet. it is an essential part of fundamental rights that freedom of expression must be defended in all states of the world. human rights are a universal and indivisible good, whether here in the united states, in sudan or in china. the republic of china must get used to this if it is to play a truly different role. i am deeply convinced that we as europeans, in the context of our official relations at the summits - precisely because we have an interest in cooperation in the fields of climate change, environmental policy and financial market regulation - must make clear to china that it urgently needs to change its human rights policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have already spoken several times about what the right way to talk to china might be, to put pressure on china, because china is obviously going to have a lot of repercussions. mrs de keyser said that her group had therefore withdrawn its signature. i don't think this is the right way. we should not fail to point out, again and again, that the eu, which has enshrined human rights in the charter of fundamental rights and the treaty of lisbon, is violating them. we have no other options at the moment. if we come up with something better, i'd be there to support it. but it's not just liu xiaobo, it's also gao zhisheng, who disappeared and is now reported to have committed suicide. everyone assumes that he probably died, in whatever bad way. this is unacceptable. we have seen in the olympics that going to china and making contact does not change the human rights situation at all. we all hoped, but it didn't work. that is why we should not let up in our calls for urgency.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the massacre of 23 november last year in the province of maguindanao in the philippines was a dark day for human rights and a barbaric act of terrorism. 57 dead, women raped, wounded they speak a bloody language. as a journalist, it's particularly striking to me that 30 journalists were among the dead. according to the prestigious international crisis group, there have never been more journalists murdered in one documented case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, we as the epp call for the present text to be watered down in three separate votes, because we should support the philippine government in its fight against terrorism and violence and therefore refrain from making any accusations against the government. i therefore ask, on behalf of the epp, for a separate vote on recital f. he accuses the philippines of "all signs of a broken legal system". in paragraph 2 we would like to remove the presumption of so-called initial delays in the information. finally, paragraph 6 claims that there are missing persons who are in philippine prisons. this too is currently an unproven allegation and we think it should be deleted.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the reason for this urgency is the brutal murder of 57 people who were accompanying a politician who was on her way to register as a candidate for the provincial governor elections. the perpetrators are members of a local militia, and there were representatives of the local police. this brutal attack is an extreme example of the threat of a rise in politically motivated extrajudicial executions and disappearances that have been threatening for years, without these serious crimes being solved. the government has shown no visible will to oppose it decisively. of hundreds of cases, only two have been solved, and not a single high-ranking official has been prosecuted. the un special rapporteur on extrajudicial executions writes in 2008: "the killings have eliminated leading members of civil society, including human rights defenders, trade unionists and advocates of land reform. they have intimidated civil society actors and constrained the country's political discourse". in this climate, the philippines is preparing for the may elections. there are fears that more political murders will occur. it is therefore of the utmost urgency that the philippine government take effective action to put an end to this. i would like to announce an oral amendment: paragraph 6 says to release all these apearances, who are still in captivity. we would like to replace that with, "to make every effort to ensure, that all who have been abducted are safely returned to their families".
author. − mr president, we would like to replace the sentence in paragraph 6 which reads: ‘to release all disappeared who are still in captivity’. instead we would like to introduce: ‘to make every effort to ensure that all who have been abducted are safety returned to their families’.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the danube strategy as something profoundly european. it links a founding country of the eu, germany, with the two newest members, bulgaria and romania. it links the next candidate country, croatia, with a country which is seeking candidate status: serbia. i am glad that the czech republic and montenegro are also included, as are a number of other countries which are historically and geographically part of it, although they are not directly on the danube. but i ask you, with all this bavaria, not to neglect. if bavaria were independent, it would be the second largest state on the danube after romania. bavaria has a special interest in this danube strategy. i am therefore grateful and happy that we are now pursuing this danube strategy. the commission
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in our view, the madagascar item on the agenda is not that important on that day. we would ask that you consider at this time the case of the african-american journalist mumia abu-jamal, who was convicted after a flimsy trial of evidence in 1982 of the murder of a police officer. mumia abu-jamal was sentenced to death and has now been on death row for almost 30 years. the incident has never been conclusively resolved, the evidence has never been properly examined. in any case, the death penalty is one of the worst violations of human rights that exists. in the proceedings, which could have led to the death penalty being converted into life imprisonment, the prosecutor's office rejected this possibility at the end of january. abu-jamal's life is now more in danger than ever. we would very much like to discuss this case in plenary to reach a decision on how we can act to obtain a stay of the death sentence and, moreover, to give mumia abu-jamal the opportunity to prove his innocence in a fair trial.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. vat fraud is not a delicte, it is a criminal act. it's a problem that has increased rather than decreased over time. the latest estimates put the cost to citizens and taxpayers at up to €100 billion - and perhaps more - a year. in times of rampant public debt and crisis, citizens fail to understand that the european union has not yet succeeded in actually tackling this problem. i therefore welcome the fact that a new attempt is being made to introduce the reverse charge procedure, on which we shall be voting the day after tomorrow. we are trying to eliminate, or at least to alleviate, the problem of vat evasion by reversing the tax liability. we shall see whether the additional vat revenue hoped for can be generated by this procedure and whether new cases of fraud can be curbed. but it's worth a try. we will have to closely monitor and critically evaluate the results of the procedure, which is limited for the time being until 2014. i would have liked to see a change on one point: i would like to see companies which have properly complied with their duty of care in the context of the vat identification number check, exempt from any liability, even if the beneficiary commits an abuse. i am particularly sorry that my amendment to this effect did not receive a majority in the econ committee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank commissioner kovács for his excellent work. administrative cooperation between eu member states - my topic - in the field of taxation is an ambitious project. it is necessary because tax evasion is not a crime of chivalry. it does not stop at national borders either. we must work together to combat tax fraud and tax havens. the member states' view that they cannot solve all this at european level is completely wrong. the legally problematic possibility of buying illegally acquired data from tax evaders, as we are currently experiencing in germany presumably this purchase is necessary , must not be the only action! in the directive i welcome, firstly, the planned automatic exchange of information between the authorities, secondly, the increased mutual posting of staff between administrations and, thirdly, the much needed relaxation of banking secrecy far beyond the european union. it is true that some workplaces need to be remedied, in particular the conflict between data exchange on the one hand and data protection on the other. both must be balanced, neither side playing itself off against the other. in addition, the issue of crossborder double taxation is more of a focus. i have spoken to many small and mediumsized enterprises operating simultaneously in different member states. they say there's so much confusion, so little transparency, so little experience, that it's negatively affecting investment decisions. you have to think about that. so we need less red tape and more necessities so that the administrations can help us to work more closely together and then achieve simplifications. if we have achieved this, if these simplifications are felt in the day-to-day business, then we have made significant progress. but it is a very important signal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. it is certainly hard to say that we have not yet achieved a breakthrough in the tax base. if you think you can defend your sovereignty in this way, you will lose it, as will your tax revenue. that is why the central appeal, also in these reports, is: more good cooperation in europe - that is the only way forward!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the fight against tax evasion is necessary. however, tax evasion and fraud are not the causes of the economic and financial crisis. it is important for me to stress once again that the first step is to win back the acceptance of the taxpayers by means of simple tax systems with low and fair taxes. this does not mean that tax evasion and tax fraud need not be actively combated, because it undermines the sense of justice when some try to evade paying taxes. this brings us to the subject of tax havens. the neighbouring country of switzerland fears that it will be put under pressure. i would like to ask the commission a specific question: are there any proposals or measures in progress to put particular pressure on switzerland? i personally think that switzerland should not treat the eu any worse than the us. this means that switzerland must be included in the system of systematically combating tax evasion.
the commissioner has already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments. it is the european interests that the commission should defend, and i agree with those who have spoken before me. the commission should review its approach. general motors wants to raise 2.7 billion euros across europe starting tomorrow without wanting to contribute a single cent of its own. it must be clear that europe, that the commission cannot give money away if it is to close more plants and move production out of europe. but the member states must not support such plans by general motors and must think only of saving their own sites. the workers have not allowed themselves to be turned against each other, and i expect the same from the member states, because a similar process of division would only result in further displacement. this must not be financed by the european taxpayer or at the expense of the other opel employees in europe. no one will understand that out there! people want to understand what the european union is doing. the commission must also ensure that the european rules are respected in all that general motors is planning to do here in europe. the european works council has put forward a joint solution with a viable economic plan to save opel, in which all the sites are to be preserved and in which the appropriate adjustments are to be made in a joint manner in all the sites. this is a plan that management can't just ignore. the process of consultation with the european works council, the rights of consultation and of expression which we have won for european workers, must not be overlooked by mr reilly and his colleagues. a european solution based on solidarity for opel is possible, but the commission must also be involved.
i have to say, madam president, i have one more point to make about the lady who said that she missed the germans in parliament. i am a german social democrat, but i also share your criticism that the prime minister of north rhine-westphalia, who belongs to the union, to the cdu, was pleased that antwerp was being closed and not bochum. we, the german social democrats, are in favour of a european solution, and we are in favour of the plan which the european works council has also put forward. and i want to say this again clearly: i have no idea why the conservatives and the liberals from germany are hiding here!
madam president, i would like to draw the new commission’s attention to two aspects of the report which are particularly important for our group, the greens, and i hope that these comments can be forwarded to the incoming commissioner responsible. two points: the first one is the long-awaited revision of the directive on equal pay for equal work. we think that this is crucial for women across europe. the pay gap is unacceptable: we are now in 2010, and it is time that action was taken to close that gap. you, mr špidla, have recognised that we need new legal action. we are really looking forward to receiving a proposal from the commission on new legal action in the course of this legislative period. the second point concerns paternity-leave entitlements. here i would like to underline that this report is about equality between women and men. we want equality for men also, so that they can share time with their kids and have that responsibility if they so desire. we need equal choice for women and men on how to live, how to work and how to take care of their families and their children. so, while we think that is crucial for the european parliament to send a signal to fathers, we would like to send more than signals: we would like to open the door to a modern society. we are relying on the commission to finally introduce a very modern, forward-looking directive on this question. finally, we are looking forward very much to the spanish presidency’s proposals with regard to eradicating violence against women throughout europe, and we hope the commission will take those proposals up.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now seeing for the first time that women in europe still do not have equal rights in working life. the employment rate has increased from 51% in 1997 to 58% in 2007. women are now highly qualified, but the proportion of female managers has remained unchanged unchanged low in recent years. the proportion of female students is higher than that of male students, particularly in the fields of economics, business administration and law. we must note that in 2007 31% of women were still part-time workers, four times as many as men. women earn on average 17.4% less than men, they are at the greatest risk of poverty and they are not only lonely and needy but also poor, especially in old age. we want to change that. women in the economy, women in the workplace - that's the demand. we call for special positions to balance parental leave and maternity protection, and we achieve the opposite: women are too expensive and therefore not hired. all measures are designed from the economic point of view. the real injustice lies in the inferior position and the low recognition of family and household activities. commissioner, you have just said that you want to make a cost-benefit analysis of this situation. you can't calculate that, and you can't pay for it. why do we not see that mothers and fathers would be happy to choose family activities if they were not considered inferior and usually also meant a career break? today, those who do family work are doing the most important job in society, because they are shaping our future, they are acquiring skills and abilities, yes, vitality, also for later professional activity. that is why the economy must be committed to the families and to the women! we need a social rethinking much more urgently than new european observatories and institutes.
i have to say, madam president, we are in the european year of poverty and social exclusion. women are still much more likely to be poor or to live in poverty. it's a lot of little steps that are put together there: it's the career choice of girls, who often choose a profession that doesn't pay as well. it is the decision to have a child that often leads to the fact that you can only work part-time. it is the decision to perhaps take care of one's parents or grandparents that in turn leads to the fact that older women are also unable to return to work. these times add up, and this leads to women's careers advancing at much smaller rates. this is also reflected later in the fact that, for example, pensions are significantly lower. we have many aspects here, including this report. what's really important is that there are already so many opportunities, but they have to be taken by girls, by women. the awareness, the courage, that a girl is studying engineering -- that's what we need to promote in schools. this is particularly true for migrant women. i would like to point out another aspect: if you look around today, you will see that approximately two thirds of the people here are women and one third are men. we also need to get the men to be much more involved in this issue, so that there will be maybe two-thirds more men sitting here and speaking up for women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i recently gave a lecture in germany on my work in the european parliament and also on the tasks i perform here and the many deadlines. and then a man asked me, "what does your husband say about that?" i've heard that question before. i know it's a question asked of women, but i think, in the opposite case, a man is never asked: what does your wife say about it? (interruption of the debate) you have? well, then, in this case, it's actually equal rights. another case: a young married couple with whom i am friends have now had a child. the two parents share a job. it is acceptable for the woman, the man was asked why he would change his diapers for half a day if he did not feel set back in his professional career. that's not equal either. lastly, we have discussed equal pay. there are companies that pay according to the tariff and yet there is evidence that women work in departments where there are fewer opportunities for promotion and less surcharges. and a final example: companies with at least 30% women in management have better business performance. equality is worth it!
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, the discussion that took place was extraordinarily rich. i think i have seen many debates in parliament and this is undoubtedly one of the richest. i think it has also become clear that the policy formulated by the european commission and europe as such is a policy which has its own intrinsic meaning, its own intrinsic logic and which must be pursued. equal opportunities, in my judgment, is indeed a fundamental element of our design, undoubtedly based on human rights, and it is also clear that we need to ensure it for all. it is not possible to accept that there will be islands where equal opportunities will not be consistently applied. the policy formulated in our equality plan should, in my view, continue in the next period, and i also agree that gender issues need to be strengthened in the next 'europe 2020' strategy. because as has been said many times in this discussion, and i completely agree with this, a modern society that wants to be successful cannot afford not to use its full human potential. i think equal opportunities is a clear competitive advantage for europe. ladies and gentlemen, the measures, the cultural aspects, the legislation and many other aspects of this complex issue were also discussed. i think we cannot take a positive or negative view of any measure a priori. there is no doubt that the existing legislation needs to be applied consistently. there's no doubt about it, and there are many problems here. but it is also clear that often new, very bold legislation can make a big difference. the norwegian case of quotas for the boards of large publicly-traded companies was mentioned here, where this law clearly changed the situation, and i think it would be interesting to study the norwegian experience. but i still think that the emphasis on the full application of the legislation currently in force is something we should not put in the background. ladies and gentlemen, the importance of work-life balance has been clearly emphasised and i think it has also been clearly stated that equal opportunities are a matter for both men and women, and i am therefore very pleased that we have participated in this debate on the basis of the experience of both sexes, as i think it should always be.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report, which has been very well received by the house. good luck and god bless.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 10 february. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the days of the hearings, the commission gave me the impression that abbot josé manuel had appeared with his 26 novices of the trappist order. this is an order that has taken a vow of silence. it seemed as if the abbot had said to his novice: "don't say anything before you say something wrong!" that was a blow to the hearings for some of the new ones. it was surprising to see people as articulate as neelie kroes suddenly isolating common phrases. others have not been subject to the oath of silence: joaquín almunia, michel barnier, the new commissioner šefčovič and mrs georgieva, when the oath of silence was already lifted, have shown that it is very possible to gain more profile by entering into a dialogue with parliament with courage than by allowing oneself to be softened. (applause from the centre) at the same time, commissioners almunia and barnier have also indicated the role they intend to play in the future commission. it was interesting to observe the way in which the various commissioners' allocations were set up, also during the hearings. so many contradictory assignments, so many structures that call for the conflicts of competence arising from these structures to be settled by an arbiter who decides in the end which way to go, that was interesting! on the one hand, the commissioners are told: 'i am the one who speaks' and on the other hand: 'in cases of disputes of competence, i am the one who decides at the end. i do not want to do any wrong to the caesars of rome, but that is obvious, mr barroso, even after you have tried to apply the principle of divide and rule. but that's the wrong approach. you must be aware of this: anyone who wants to turn a collective body into a presidential system is spinning a big wheel and must also be told in the end that the deficits will remain with him and he must also take responsibility for them. the commission is strong when it acts as a collegiate body. it is strong when you do not see yourself as a technocratic authority, but understand that the challenges we face require transnational european responses. the question you raised at the beginning of your speech - does europe have a role to play in the world? - is on the agenda. this question will not be answered by cutting everything off, but by organizing the powers of your commission so effectively that the commission, in cooperation with us, the european parliament, can give the answers. the economic crisis, the financial crisis, the ecological crisis, the social crisis of this continent require transnational european responses. they don't need the renationalization. that is why we need a strong commission, which can also rely on a strong majority in parliament. but it does not have to be tailored to josé manuel durão barroso, it has to reflect the range of skills that all commissioners bring! (applause from the centre) the question 'does europe have a role in the world?' was well observed in copenhagen. if we break down into our individual parts when it comes to environmental legislation, if europe is renationalizing rather than taking an ambitious approach together, then we will also experience in other areas what we experienced in copenhagen, namely that the decisions are made between barack obama and hu jintao and not with the participation of the europeans. if we do not want the world to fall into a new kind of bipolarity, we need a strong europe, we need an ambitious europe. we need a functioning commission that is committed to this task. now, mr barroso, in the discussions on the interinstitutional agreement you made two concessions which are crucial to my terms. the impact assessment and especially the social impact assessment is an essential point for us as social democrats, as socialists and democrats. either you as a commission, and all the members of this commission individually, understand that the turning away of large sections of europeans from the european idea had something to do with the fact that people in europe felt that this commission was only interested in the market and not in the social protection of citizens. more and more people feel that the commission's actions are being guided by cold technocracy and not by social welfare. if this is turned in a different direction in the social impact assessment we are agreeing on, then that is a great step forward! this is also true of the measure in this interinstitutional agreement, which we agree to, namely that future legislative resolutions of the european parliament will be converted into commission initiatives within a year. this is also a huge step forward in the cooperation between our two institutions. a trappist monk who is to work with herman ohneland, the president of the council, to represent europe in the world. what we need is effective cooperation between the european institutions. but not all of it is mr barroso's fault. there are also the 27 heads of government in europe who believe that the commission is an extension of their central government. what we need in response is a close cooperation between the european parliament and a commission committed to social and environmental progress in europe. this is how europe comes to its role in the world. if we tackle this together, then we as the socialist group, mr barroso, will discuss how we will decide in the end after your reply at the recess. i shall put that to the vote in the second reading after our group discussion and your reply. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not mr barroso, in september 2009 i had to tell you that your political guidelines were a continuation of a failed commission policy. their neoliberal policies do not reveal a strategy for greater social justice, nor do they make europe more crisis-proof. they are not the basis for successfully combating poverty and social exclusion in europe. now, let us have a look at a commissioner who is a good fit for your programme. i am not going to give you my group's approval for that. the european parliament has already shown in the new legislature that it is serious about democratic control and participation. i appreciate that. i would remind you of the rejection of a commissioner-designate and of the new framework agreement between parliament and the commission, and i hope that tomorrow we will again see a conscientious parliament in the context of the swift agreement. transparency and fairness in the arrangements between the institutions are crucial, but it is on this basis that policy begins. it is about the people of europe and the world, it is about good jobs, it is about more rights to good education and fair wages, it is about their right to peaceful development and to an intact nature. that is why my group will not agree with your guidelines or your proposal on staff. i hope that the commission will be able to take this matter up with the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a feeling it's finally going to happen. more than eight, almost nine years for the new treaty, more than eight, almost nine months for the new commission. it is not europe that is acting, but we must act. people are looking for jobs, businesses are looking for markets, consumers are looking for reliability, greece is looking for stability and europe is looking for its role in the world. that is why it is good that the time of complicated debates that only professionals could understand is over, and that is why it is good that the commission can now work in such a way that people can really benefit from it again. we want two things from you, mr barroso. be brave and make europe strong inside and outside! we want you to be brave, yes, we also want more europe where the member states or the opinion polls may want something different, in the economic and financial spheres, in domestic and judicial policy, but also in foreign and security policy. this is especially for you, baroness ashton. the deficits are obvious. the internal market does not work well enough for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. greece needs help, yes! this requires a strong europe. i am glad that the commission has now made a proposal. if you think we have come far enough in foreign policy, you have learned better since copenhagen at the latest. so let us say again: mr barroso, make europe strong, inside and outside! we'll support you in that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. let me make a brief comment on the interinstitutional agreement and the resolution before us. first of all, i welcome the fact that the commission is now showing signs of being prepared to accept the european parliament's indirect right of initiative in a more practical way. this means, in plain language, that in future there will be specific deadlines within which the commission will undertake to react to our decisions. this is good, also in view of the experience gained in the last parliamentary term. it is also a matter of course, but this agreement also means that we are treated equally with the council on all matters. this is the logical consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i also welcome the fact that parliament and the commission have worked together more closely in the area of legislative programming. we will have to draw up a kind of joint legislative programme of the three institutions in the future, and it is helpful if the commission and parliament, as the traditional agents of the community's interests, agree as much as possible in advance. i am not entirely satisfied with the results of the impact assessment, the so-called impact assessment. the european parliament will have to consider how it can improve the quality of its own impact assessment in the light of the fact that the european commission does not want to carry out the truly independent impact assessment requested by parliament. i welcome the fact that the declarations here will already announce that there will be close cooperation on legislation on the foreign service. here too the commission and parliament have a broadly shared interest, which we should define before we talk to the council. i also think it is good - and this is also something that follows from the treaty of lisbon - that the house's position in the field of international negotiations on international agreements should be greatly improved and that parliament should actually be granted access to all information and to all conferences. this was a very important issue, and i am glad that we were able to push through it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not alone. we were very pleased to receive the treaty of lisbon on 1 december, which means a stronger social policy and a strengthening of consumers in the internal policy of the european union. but now we have to say that you have done the exact opposite with the distribution of portfolios in your european commission, contrary to what is in the lisbon treaty, namely a horizontal commitment to consumer protection, because now there is not just one commissioner but several commissioners responsible for consumer protection. my question to you is, how do you want to handle this? how can we ensure coherence in this policy area, which is of particular importance to consumers and to the citizens of europe? the responsibilities have been distributed. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. and please, don't tell us that it's the college that's going to decide. we need clear responsibilities. and do not explain to us at the end, you will decide if there is a dispute between the various commissioners. you're not omnipotent, and you're part of a college. i have great difficulty in this, mr barroso, and you have to explain to me how you can really manage this fragmentation of consumer protection policy, but also in other areas, for example foreign policy, so that we have a policy where we can say after five years, yes, it was worth having such a commission. i do not yet know how i will vote afterwards. that will depend very much on what you answer us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we now have the second barroso commission. it has already been said here how the system has changed. it's the fourth commission since i've been here. the first two commissions, santer and prodi, were collegiate bodies. the first barroso commission was glittering with individual actors - i am thinking of mr dimas, mrs kroes or mr mcgreevy, who remained inactive for years under your leadership. if you are going to introduce the presidential system, mr president, i would recommend that you lead but go back to the collegial system. that is better for europe and better for cooperation with parliament. citizens have expectations they have spoken with courage about the european agenda: firstly, to stabilise the euro, to enlarge the eurozone and to commit national governments to creating modern and technology-oriented jobs on a global scale, because the lisbon strategy of 2000 has failed, although the objectives are right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. open markets and more education, growth and prosperity must not be the issues of the past but must remain the issues of the future, as must social security, the industrial base and no expansion of financial markets. we want to work fairly with you and the commission. the commission must be the motor, not the teacher of europe. two groups have decided to form a total opposition here, the greens and the communists. they represent just under 13% of the members of parliament. if the president of the commission and the commission work well together with the rest, then together we will have the success we need!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr barroso, we are in a different situation and in a different institutional set-up. the three institutions - parliament, council and european commission - will have to work together differently under the lisbon treaty than they have done so far. i think we all have to be interested in making this a success. your participation in the first part of the interinstitutional agreement gives me the impression - and i am not always uncritical of you - that you want that too. the first part of this agreement, which we have negotiated with you, contains important elements for the role of the european parliament in cooperation, in particular with you, but also with the council: the strengthening of the dialogue between parliament and the european commission, the possibility of obtaining more information than before, so that it can be an equal partner in the legislative process, a real question and answer session, in which commissioners, who are politicians, answer questions and give their opinion without hiding, as was the case in the past. so far, only you, mr barroso, have had the courage to do so. now everyone will. that's good. it is in the interest of all of us, and it is also in the interest of european democracy and, i hope, in the interest of the citizens of what we are doing, namely, our legislative work for all. finally, mr barroso, on the question of legislative initiatives: i am convinced that with what we have been able to negotiate with you for our cooperation and have put into a resolution today, we have come as close as possible to the european parliament's right of initiative. the sui generis construct does not allow for any more. you've been working on this, and you've been working on this honestly. i respect that and i really appreciate the way you've been putting yourself out there. the impact assessments have already been discussed by the members. they've committed to transparency, to cooperative action. you said that social impact assessments are important to you. that is an essential point for us. i'm satisfied with all of it. i think we should start working today.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, the socialists and democrats have not made the decision easy. we voted for the president of the commission five months ago, we did not trust him then, but he got a majority. on the basis of this majority, which unfortunately depended on people who are not really in favour of the lisbon treaty, he has presented us with a college, and today we are going to evaluate that college. and you have to evaluate this college. you have two choices: you can go in there and divide this house into right and left. the right and the left are in an ideological conflict and must vote as such. that's one way to do it. but that's not how europe works. we have no majority in this parliament, the epp has no majority in this parliament, alde has no majority in this parliament. europe is not a structure in which some political force can forge a majority for itself and say that europe is being run in exactly this way. europe is the permanent compromise. that is what makes this europe so difficult and so difficult to understand at times. but it is better to have a permanent compromise that leads to success and greater social justice than to have a battle of ideological principles that ends up in a vacuum without any concrete results. (applause from the centre) that is why it is difficult for us to carry out a balancing of goods. of course, we all want to get rough. of course, i also enjoy debating the principles with colleagues from other groups, but europe also needs concrete results. we have therefore asked ourselves what we as social democrats, as socialists and democrats can demand and achieve. then we defined criteria. one of the criteria was that we wanted to have a high level of representation in this commission of the political force which is the second force in europe. that is why we wanted the high commissioner for foreign affairs and security policy and we have pushed for that position. i'd like to say something to the person who holds this post. cathy ashton must not be called a communist in this house by a man who has been convicted in france of holocaust denial! cathy ashton has our full confidence! (parliament adopted the resolution) we have asked the question: can we introduce social impact assessment as a regulatory mechanism in european union legislation? for us, the question was whether measures such as the services directive could be introduced at all. no, we wanted a mechanism whereby any measure taken by this commission is examined for its impact on the social security systems of the member states before it is taken. it's been anchored. we wanted - and this is a quantum leap in european politics for me - that the legislative resolutions of this parliament be converted by the commission into its own legislative initiatives within a year. this is a huge step forward because it means that the right of initiative of this parliament, which unfortunately does not exist, is being enforced in an indirect way. we feel that this is a great step forward. we wanted to be the second force in this parliament and also to be a group that would be able to form a qualified majority in the commission without a qualified majority in this parliament. three of the seven vice-presidents are social democrats. you've come a long way from where we were. we have raised many concerns in the past weeks and months, and again this morning in our discussion. we have decided, in balancing these concerns with the progress we have made, to give you our confidence for the next five years. and when i say 'you', i mean the college of commissioners. you can count on our support if you take seriously what i'm about to give you: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's our shared responsibility to make sure it's more social. the socialist group will give its confidence to this commission. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. my group has also taken an active part in the hearings of the candidates. we have a very positive impression of some of them. we are less enthusiastic about the new cut of some departments. this also applies to the somewhat opaque - and perhaps soon more transparent - remit of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, who is also vice-president of the commission. however, some candidates have disappointed us in terms of their skills. the commission has already made a number of proposals. where should the european integration process go? what are the measures most important to the commissioners-designate? there have been too many vague answers to this and those which we will not support politically. despite the call for a more social europe, the course of deregulation, privatisation or the concept of flexicurity is being maintained. the flexibility of workers is at the top, social security is at the bottom. climate protection is on the agenda, but we do not see any abandonment of coal-fired or nuclear power. i do not see the eu taking the lead in climate change and development aid. there is no question of a consistent disarmament, especially with regard to nuclear weapons within europe. mr barroso, mr president, as much as i appreciate the candidates for the hearing, my group cannot give your college a positive vote!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the commission and i am also in favour of the framework agreement, which is a historic step forward. i voted against the resolution, however, because we received it yesterday in the form of a finished text, we were not able to discuss it seriously and the devil is in the details. i would therefore like to make it clear that i have reservations about certain phrases, for example those relating to the right of individual members to put questions, or the danger of a partnership between the commission and parliament when the commission is sitting in the conference of presidents, when it comes to the agenda. i therefore ask that corrections be made once again when the text is finally negotiated. it has been rightly said that parliament has more power. it needs a close partnership with the commission, but not a companion. and we need more democracy, not less, because just as we have more power, we also need more democracy in parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in view of the major challenges facing europe, it is important and very welcome that we have a commission that is able to act. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the agreement adopted today provides an important basis for this. parliament now has full co-decision and is therefore equal in all areas affecting the commission and the council. in this sense, we will work closely with the commission - in a spirit of trust, but not without criticism. the swift agreement in particular shows that no questions can be decided without parliament's consent. i simply expect that we will be able to discuss the swift agreement once again in this house.
in writing. - i regret the absence of any reference in the present framework agreement to the european parliament's powers of control and the lack of clarity on the principles of the separation of powers in parts of the agreement. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of the european commission, although i did not find it easy. during the hearings it became clear that several of the candidates proposed by the member states did not have sufficient expertise, nor were they able to develop concrete ideas about their field or even visions for the future. the framework agreement between the ep and the commission on future cooperation also leaves many questions open. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the interinstitutional agreement has nevertheless made important progress: the impact of all commission actions should be assessed regularly by an independent body. parliament shall be informed in good time of any changes in the commission's staff. the ep delegation leader is granted observer status at international conferences. the ep is a qualified contributor to the eu's annual work programmes. finally, the european commission undertakes to submit a report on its legislative initiatives within three months. that is why i said 'yes' to the new barroso commission today.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner almunia, at this particular time of transition, i thank you for your commitment to your previous mandate and wish you a happy hand in the new tasks. i would like to extend this wish to your successor, mr rehn. i wish him courage and fortune for the important tasks he faces. the current situation has three messages for us. message number one: what commission president barroso has presented to us as the eu 2020 concept is a thin soup. this thin soup will be far from sufficient to create the coherence in the european union that we urgently need to avoid situations such as we are experiencing today in the future. there must be meat in this soup, and i hope that the dates for the next few weeks will provide an opportunity to make some additions. we urgently need greater economic policy coordination. the spanish presidency is right to stress this. there is no reason, honourable chairman, for you to be frightened here. message no 2: of course, there are modernization deficits in some member states, and the figures must not lie. but there are deficits in more than one country. and there are also countries that have to do more because they can do more. i have no doubt that the new greek finance minister, mr papakonstantinou, is doing a great job, and i do not know of any serious politician who would deny that. he deserves our trust, we should strengthen him. message number three: the european union must be prepared. if the markets test the eurozone, europe must be able to respond. the answer must be unconventional. if there is further speculation against individual countries, we must be able to provide loans at the average european rating conditions. it's going to be organized. we also find support in the lisbon treaty for taking action in this respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say, madam president, it hasn't happened to me that often either, that i'm overlooked. i am glad to come now to my speech, however. we all know that not all the member states of the eurozone have been affected equally by the economic and financial crisis. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the stability of the euro must of course remain the overriding and decisive objective. this is also true of the measures to consolidate the budgets of the individual euro-countries, which are not only in the interest of the countries themselves but also, of course, in the interest of the countries which are not so badly affected. but we also have to think carefully about what measures are necessary and what measures may be less effective in helping countries here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that these countries have failed to make important reforms in the past, and now they have been paid for it. the problems are therefore largely self-inflicted and will have to be solved by the countries concerned in the future. that is why we must implement strict programmes of austerity and reform, as the commission has announced. it would be a fatal signal, in my view, if the taxpayer always had to help out in the end.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into detail. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is once again dealing with the question of the immediate closure of the guantanamo torture prison and i join the words and positions of all colleagues who are calling for decisive action by the european union and the member states. it is really and truly a problem of transatlantic cooperation. nearly 800 people from over forty countries have been detained there in violation of the geneva convention, without charge, without lawyer, without trial. there are numerous reports of murder and of the worst mistreatment and humiliation of prisoners. i consider it shameful and regrettable that most member states of the european union have so far refused to declare themselves ready to accept guantanamo detainees as third countries, and i call on the commission to bring this matter back to the council without delay, including the issue of revealing the complicity of european countries in the illegal detention of prisoners there. perhaps one more thought: the use of guantánamo as a torture prison is a clear violation of the original lease agreement and perhaps mrs ashton and the other members of the commission responsible for foreign policy should join me in calling on the us government to draw a symbolic line under the chapter of shame and return guantánamo to cuba.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. 2010 is the international year of biodiversity and the eu is in the process of promoting a new biodiversity strategy, i.e. the protection of species of plants and animals within the territory of the european union. it would add a great deal to the credibility of the european union if we also protected and worked for the protection of endangered species of plants and animals at international level. the opportunity will be there next month at the 15th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, the so-called cites convention, in doha. the eu must be the advocate of all species that are threatened or even threatened with extinction by various influences, in particular by over-exploitation or by destructive and illegal practices. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has dealt with the subject in depth and is putting a proposal for a recommendation to the plenary tomorrow, and we would like the council and the commission to be able to join in these recommendations. i would like to mention just a few examples of species which, in our opinion, need a high level of protection, or even a higher level, because of the shortness of time. there's the african elephant. we are definitely against the downgrading of this animal from appendix i to appendix ii. it must remain committed to the prohibition of international trade, particularly in ivory. second is the asian tiger. the tiger is now facing a real threat of extinction and we are calling, together with many of the states parties, for stricter protection measures, particularly against the illegal trade in tiger body parts and derivatives. we know that there is a huge market in the asian region for tiger bones and tiger parts, which are threatening these animals. third, there is the protection of polar bears. climate change is threatening the habitat of this species anyway, and there's an increasing trade in polar bear body parts here, too. so here we are again for the upgrading of annex ii to annex i. i would also like to mention the protection of various species of sharks. there is overfishing of various species of shark, in particular herring and dorn, but also of other species. we have a consensus on that. now i come to the controversial issue. the classification of the mediterranean and atlantic bluefin tuna is controversial. ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the recommendations of the ad hoc working group of the fao, the world food organisation, which wants to keep bluefin tuna in annex ii. we also know the expertise of the scientific committee of the convention on the conservation of species, which wants to upgrade the bluefin tuna to annex i status. background is the data that's in front of you. red tuna stocks have been reduced by 75% between 1957 and 2007, and a 60.9% decline has occurred in the last decade alone. there is a dynamic and accelerating threat to this fish and that is why we in the committee have voted by a large majority to include this species in annex i. it is only restricting and prohibiting international fishing fleets, not local fishing. so the small, local fishermen can continue to fish for this fish, and the preservation of the fish in the ecosphere is more important than the ubiquitous presence of sushi and sashimi. that is the conflict we face. we must think long term and give due protection to the bluefin tuna in annex i.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not our expectations of the council and the commission are clear: we expect the negotiations with croatia to be concluded later this year and those with macedonia to be opened later this year. this includes recognising that minority policies in both countries are better than in many eu member states and that all minorities and ethnic groups in both countries are represented in the governments. the question of the return of displaced persons, commissioner, is also - if i may say so - a matter of principle in croatia, which is also an example for other countries. i would therefore like to make it very clear that we should of course tell these countries that they still have to make an effort, but it is really not possible to say that the ball is in croatia's court. croatia has ratified the border agreement and i join mr swoboda in his appeal to the slovenian parliament to do the same. the council has not yet opened three negotiating chapters. i would appeal to the spanish representatives in the council of ministers to do so during the spanish presidency. then, if it is judged fair, croatia can conclude the negotiations this year. as for the unspeakable blockade of macedonia over the name issue, the ball is not just in macedonia's court, but in the court of an eu member state which is blocking the issue in violation of international law. i want to make it very clear that we as the eu must behave in a credible way, that is to say, we must demand something from others, but we must also hold ourselves to our own standards. otherwise we lose and gamble away our credibility. i think it is essential that we work to ensure that after a long and difficult journey we can vote on croatia in this parliament this year and that the observers come, as we welcomed the czech, slovenian and hungarian observers coming here at the time. i hope that next year or the year after that there will be european elections in this country and that then croatian colleagues will be sitting among us and will pave the way for the accession of the other countries of south-eastern europe, with macedonia at the head of the way.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of the verts/ale group, i should first like to extend a warm welcome to this house to mr füle as commissioner. we are happy to work with you and look forward to our future cooperation. i would also like to thank mr swoboda for the good cooperation on the croatia report. i think there was good cooperation in the process and i thank my colleagues. i would just like to say that we would have preferred to have had the debate en bloc so that we had all three countries, but separate sections, in the morning. we think that would have made more sense instead of having them all mixed up together, but that is a side note. die grüne/efa-fraktion ist für einen schnellen beitritt kroatiens, und wir begrüßen diesbezüglich ausdrücklich die zügigen fortschritte des landes. der baldige beitritt kroatiens ist ein wichtiges sicherheitspolitisches signal für die gesamte region des westbalkans. er bedeutet, dass das beitrittsversprechen der europäischen staats- und regierungschefs von thessaloniki, welches sie für den gesamten westbalkan gegeben haben, noch gilt. die glaubwürdigkeit und gültigkeit dieses versprechens ist ein enormer anreiz für alle staaten in der region, tiefgreifende reformen zu unternehmen, die länder sicherer, stabiler und wohlhabender zu gestalten. zu kroatien generell muss natürlich noch gesagt werden, dass der öffentliche dienst gestärkt und transparenter gemacht werden muss. entscheidend ist hier nicht nur die annahme neuer gesetze, sondern vor allen dingen die verwaltungstechnische umsetzung. an diesem punkt wollen wir als fraktion noch mehr ergebnisse sehen. wir glauben, dass nur eine konsequente umsetzung von neuen gesetzen und richtlinien das problem von korruption und organisierter kriminalität lösen kann. gleiches gilt für den justizbereich und das noch zu verhandelnde besonders wichtige justizkapitel. die ankündigungen der kroatischen regierung sind gut und richtig, aber auch ihnen müssen taten folgen, die die situation in den gerichten de facto verbessern. auch hier fordern wir mehr transparenz und weniger politische einflussnahme. wir haben deswegen vier änderungsanträge, für die ich werben möchte. beim ersten geht es um die korruptionsbekämpfung. dort möchten wir insbesondere den bau- und städteplansektor erwähnt haben, da es dort um die größten öffentlichen aufträge geht. zweitens möchten wir, dass in ziffer 19 darauf hingewiesen wird, dass die situation von schwulen und lesben nicht zufriedenstellend ist. es kommt zu regelmäßigen angriffen auf die angehörigen dieser minderheiten. wir haben unterdessen von der kroatischen regierung belege dafür bekommen, dass nun in einigen fällen ermittelt wird. wir halten das für ein sehr positives zeichen und ermutigen die kroatischen behörden, die durchsetzung des antidiskriminierungsgesetzes voranzutreiben. ein letzter punkt: uns fehlt eine vision für eine neue energiepolitik kroatiens. daher fordern wir sie auf, unseren änderungsantrag 7 zu unterstützen. wir freuen uns darauf, wenn kroatien bald beitreten kann.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as the head of the delegation responsible, i should like to begin by congratulating mr zoran thaler on his very balanced report. skopje has implemented reforms and is on its way to joining the european union. we welcome this and are very pleased. visa liberalisation was perhaps the clearest, most visible sign, was a milestone in cooperation. this objective has been achieved only through close cooperation between eu member states. it stands for openness, for exchange, for cooperation. but we must not forget that candidate country status was granted four years ago, and since then we have been asking ourselves when that date will finally come. i can only appeal to all parties: the name conflict that is at the heart of this must be overcome! the momentum created by the council decision in december must be used by the new greek government! it's getting smaller every day. i can only appeal to the parties: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can't be interested in that. that is why we must continue to work on it now.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the enlargement policy has been successful so far, although we have seen in the last round that we need to look more closely, especially as regards the internal development of a country in relation to the rule of law, corruption and similar issues. i believe that is what is happening in the current negotiations. i believe that we are very far from croatia and that a conclusion can be reached quickly. but, of course, in general, the copenhagen criteria must always and in any case be respected, and this includes the european union's ability to integrate, because overstretching is of course a danger we must see. we will honour our commitments to the western balkans, but in individual cases this may mean a very long way to go. we should see this, so as not to give rise to false hopes. on the other hand, it is clear that the european perspective is an interesting instrument, and perhaps the only one, for maintaining a certain degree of pressure so that the internal reform process in these countries is guaranteed both in terms of the development of market maturity and of the political system. i have problems with turkey, when i see the country's attitude towards berlin plus, cyprus, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, the banning of political parties and similar issues, and i wonder whether the necessary final steps are being taken in the mentality - not in the form - to make accession possible and whether the capacity for integration into the european union is there. commissioner, you have a great opportunity to have a wider range of responsibilities by being responsible for enlargement policy and neighbourhood policy together. both are concerned with the european perspective, but with different sets of instruments. that's why you have an interesting job, and i wish you the best.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i am a little surprised that the very esteemed british colleague, mr cashman, should remind us that when a country joins the european union, it must be all in and not have an à la carte approach. this is a little strange. i want to talk about turkey. it has been said here that turkey is a society in motion. that's right, i did. but we must be clear, in the interests of fairness, that this is not a linear move towards european values. it's a back and forth motion. military example: of course, we welcome the decree that the military can no longer intervene without political authorization. that's good. but the picture also includes the constitutional court's ruling that it is forbidden to prosecute military personnel in civil courts. this is not good. for example, freedom of speech and expression: yes, there is a lively debate on many subjects that were once taboo, including the rights of minorities, including sexual minorities, by the way, mr cashman. we like that very much, that's right. but at the same time there is the ban on youtube, there are legislation which establishes a framework which creates legal uncertainty in the area of freedom of speech and expression, which is particularly important for the liberal group. there is the "private war" against the doğan group. this is all unpleasant. example of the role of women: of course it is good that so-called honor killings - barbaric crimes - are discussed in the media. but do we really think that turkish society is moving linearly towards european values of equality? i think that is not the case. let me also say something about what mr howitt said here. we have a process - accession negotiations - which we must conduct in good faith, that is true. but this is a process without automation. in this process, we are not only responsible for the candidate country, but our primary responsibility is to the european union. we need credibility in our enlargement policy, we need honesty, also credibility towards the candidate countries. i must say that it sometimes shocks me to see this alliance here between the greens, who want a strong europe but want enlargement as soon as possible, and colleagues like geoffrey van orden, who want to bring all the countries into the eu as quickly as possible in order to weaken the european union. this is strange. yes, there is a prospect of joining. but there is only one way to join, and that is if all the criteria are met. (request referred to in rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i did not say that the united kingdom was in breach of the treaty. i merely pointed out that the united kingdom is not involved in certain important policy areas of european integration, such as schengen, the euro, the social charter and - if i understand this correctly - the charter of fundamental rights. these are all issues that are not marginal.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate mr füle on his appointment as commissioner. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr swoboda, on his report. it is a very balanced representation of how far croatia has come. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the acquis communautaire in the field of the environment. it is also significant that, for example, the statistics, a eurobarometer survey from last autumn, clearly show that 84% of croats are dissatisfied with democracy in their country. this means that not only judicial reforms are necessary, but also a better position for minorities. but we must also ensure that the freedom of the press is fully guaranteed. it is important that these reforms are initiated and implemented and above all that they receive the support of the population. for the sake of completeness, i am sure that the criteria will soon be met. but the entire population of croatia must stand behind it and welcome eu membership.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to congratulate you, commissioner füle, on your appointment and wish you a happy hand in this important task. you have already made it clear to the committee that the negotiations with turkey are about accession and not about this twisted idea of a privileged partnership, which, incidentally, has never been sufficiently propagated by its protagonists. but you also made it clear - and we have explicitly welcomed this - that both sides must respect their commitments and commitments, both turkey and the european union. it is a question of the future of the community. you should know that line from your former great chairman. another point is also very important to me: turkey has of course a lot of work to do, but so does the european union, whether it is on the cyprus issue or the implementation of minority rights in turkey or the political and military aspects. but one thing is also clear: a process is never linear. we know this from the history of our european union. all you have to do is look at the processes and the processes around the lisbon treaty. there will always be advances and setbacks in this process in turkey. it is also clear that if turkey one day meets all the conditions, if it can adopt the acquis communautaire, then turkey will be a different country. but the european union will also have changed and moved in a lasting way through the lisbon treaty. we should keep that in mind. and as i said, both sides must live up to their commitments.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. it is high time that the negotiations between the eu and macedonia finally began. macedonia has fulfilled the conditions and has been waiting since 2005. greece is receiving so much solidarity from 26 other member states that it should not now veto the opening of negotiations with neighbouring macedonia. the name issue is a purely bilateral matter, even if the un is helpful in this. i would like to say about croatia that it is fighting corruption to a degree that other countries - including eu countries - could follow suit. secondly, i think that the return of refugees, which mr boştinaru has just mentioned, has been dealt with in an exemplary manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thirdly, the question of cooperation with the war crimes tribunal in the hague: croatia has already handed over all the wanted war criminals years ago. the documents still required from homeland war are either gone or never existed. so these questions should be approached with common sense. the government is looking for them, they've sent a task force, but you can't do more than look. if you do not find anything, you should really take a step forward, given that croatia has been cooperating well for years. croatia has therefore largely fulfilled the conditions. i very much hope that the chapters will be opened soon so that the negotiations with croatia can be concluded by the end of this year.
madam president, mr president-in-office, mr füle, you are right. i wish you much success in your work in the future. the cyprus question is not without its ambivalence. we must not, as the european union, dismiss or ignore this alleged nuisance. we didn't keep our promises. that is a fact, and this double standard must be addressed. we know that the ankara protocol on the cyprus question must be implemented definitively. but one thing is clear, of course, and this was stated by the council in 2004, that the isolation of the northern part will be lifted. i am glad that the southern part is also giving the northern part the necessary support. but that was not the intention of the european union. the intention was that everyone would lift the isolation, the entire eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make two points on turkey. as a rule, ethnic conflicts are discussed - and rightly so. there's a lot to work on and a lot to complain about. but what is generally overlooked is that there are still significant problems with trade union rights and workers' rights in turkey. the turkish government continues to use - and may even use - police force against trade unions which stand up for their members, for workers. this has happened again recently in the tekel workers' strike. that is the only comment i have to make. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the eu is also committed to this, especially if it sees itself as a social eu. the second aspect is privatization. turkey is adapting to the eu, including privatisation. the tekel workers currently number 12 000 and are out of work threatened with loss of their jobs or have lost them as a result of privatisation. but it is not only the tekel workers in the tobacco industry, but also some 500 000 people in the tobacco industry in south-eastern turkey who have lost their jobs in recent years, with the result that turkey has gone from being one of the most important producers and exporters of tobacco to being an importer of tobacco. a week ago i had the opportunity to be in ankara and talk to the tekel workers. if privatisation continues to destroy jobs and industries, the support of the turkish people for eu membership will simply decline. we have a duty to promote the social dimension of the eu. i would like to make a further point.
in writing. it is commendable that the young macedonian democracy has made further progress in all areas of both social and economic life. i very much welcome the smooth conduct of the presidential and local elections in march 2009, which was positively reflected as a sign of the progress of democratization in the whole region. macedonia has fulfilled all the criteria for visa liberalisation and has therefore been able to grant visa-free travel to its citizens since 19 december 2009. it's a big step forward. macedonia still has a long way to go in terms of reforms. i very much hope that we can help with our experience gained during the first wave of eu enlargement to the east. i am thinking here of the implementation of institutional reforms, in which political foundations and various ngos have done a great deal of work. i would like to mention two areas today where we should strengthen our cooperation on transformation and eu standards: reform of public administration, the judiciary and the police. i personally hope that the name dispute between macedonia and greece will be settled in the near future and that the progress of european unification will not be hampered by bilateral disagreements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that has been agreed with the political groups. i read it briefly in english: "is concerned about the nature of demonstrations held in front of eu embassies in tehran on 9 february as being orchestrated by the basij militia, and calls on the iranian authorities to guarantee the safety of diplomatic missions".
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change, and calls on the member states to take all necessary measures to ensure that the climate change is not averted. i'll make this quick. the s&d group's amendment no 6 was aimed in this direction. since it is worded in a way that is not clear, we shall withdraw it. but we support amendments nos 1 and 9 by the liberals and the greens, which say that the eu must do more on the way to mexico. so, there can be no standstill in climate action. i'm asking for backup.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i'm on the side of mrs. hassi. that's a new idea, we should vote on it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i personally think it is completely wrong to focus on climate change solely on reducing co2 emissions. firstly, many people forget that the research into the causes of climate change is still in its infancy, and secondly, it is completely wrong and unscientific to define climate change as a single causal phenomenon. so co2 alone is not making the world a better place. i think it is more important to put the conservation of resources at the centre of our consideration. reducing the use of fossil fuels and increasing the use of renewable resources and renewable energy will save the environment, improve efficiency and leave a better world for our descendants. efficient and sustainable management of our resources is therefore far more beneficial to us, our society and the environment than reducing co2 emissions, whatever the cost.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the copenhagen climate negotiations were a disappointment for the european union. that's been said before. the result is far from the eu's position and far from the necessary position on climate change. only the recognition of the two-degree target is positive, as it allows the necessary reduction commitments to be derived. we must now ask ourselves: what can we learn from the failed negotiations and what is the next step? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we must ask ourselves how we can move forward together with other countries. how can we prevent the us, china and india from negotiating a compromise without the eu being at the table? how can we better negotiate with the developing and emerging countries? is it necessary for these negotiations to be conducted under the auspices of the un? i would like to conclude by saying that i am glad that i was able to vote in favour of the resolution, because i believe that it continues to highlight the european union's pioneering role. we must now answer these questions and continue to pursue this path, including internationally.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the resolution because i think that some important data are missing. recently, there have been a growing number of reports of climate scientists faking data. we should discuss this and record it. so, let me be clear: i have been advocating for many years that we conserve fossil fuels, so that we have the least possible impact on the environment. but the panic-mongering that is being done with the word climate change, i cannot understand. in my long political life, i have experienced many things. in the early 1980s it was hot, in the year 2000 there is no tree in germany. germany is greener than ever. it's true that there is climate change, but there has always been and there will be in the future. that is why i voted against this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very glad that we christian democrats of the epp group voted against this terrible ideological report, which the socialists, the communists, the greens and also the liberals massively pushed through here in the house. it is an attack on the right to life of the unborn child and an attack on the principle of subsidiarity. i am particularly appalled by the way in which the liberals have acted as the left's henchmen here and have also gone against the principle of subsidiarity. this type of reporting is detrimental to our acceptance by the population, it is detrimental to our acceptance by the candidate countries. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud. we must therefore tell people clearly what the acquis communautaire is, which i fully support, what the eu's responsibilities are and what dangerous ideological accessories are. to take up the point made by my italian colleague, we are of course in favour of the soup, but against the cyanide in the soup.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that our house has rejected, by a large and clear majority, the attempts of the red and green group to commit us to the goal of full membership for turkey. the process must remain open, and i would say even more clearly that it must be immediately redirected towards a tailor-made special status or a privileged partnership. turkey is not a european country, but it is our most important partner on the periphery of europe. we therefore want as much cooperation as possible, but - to answer mr kreissl-dörfler who raised this earlier - without turkey's membership of the european institutions, without full freedom of movement, but with close economic and political cooperation. this is a very precise idea, and i believe that this idea has a chance of being implemented, because neither in turkey nor in the european union will there be a majority for full membership. it would therefore be more sensible to stop dwelling on it and to concentrate on the goal of the partnership.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution. unfortunately, many good amendments have been rejected. the reality of climate change is completely lost. critical remarks and the correct scientific elaboration of climate protection were rejected, as were europe's unilateral actions. that is not my understanding of responsible politics for our citizens.
in writing. - i rejected the report because i cannot, on the basis of my fundamental convictions, declare that i fully accept the right to abortion and the right to reproductive freedom. the right to life is a fundamental right for me, which must be defended and respected in every case. the other parts of the report are quite good and show that europe has made some progress towards equality for women. it is also positive that family commitment is being given much greater prominence than in the past.
in writing. − i abstained on the report on croatia because i do not think that the time pressure of making croatia ready for accession in the first half of 2010 is necessary. there is no reason for haste and no time pressure to justify this course of action.
in writing. - the european parliament, unlike the commission and the council, has found a clear language that clearly identifies the many problems in and with turkey. the ban on the pro-kurdish dt party is an attack on democracy, which is still in its infancy, and in particular on the kurdish minority, which constitutes at least 20% of the population. the fact that this is the 27th ban on political parties in ten years illustrates the turkish understanding of democracy. the internal divisions in the country are once again reflected in the withdrawal of the law restricting the rights of military courts: the turkish government is hardly planning to make any small concessions to the eu, and is being exposed by the nationalist opposition. the turkish government is trying to stifle criticism in its infancy by retaliating against unpopular journalists and media. religious freedom is measured by two things: the prime minister wants to lift the headscarf ban and the age limit for koranic schools, while at the same time continuing to discriminate and harass religious minorities. these are frightening developments! it is in this context that the turkish chief negotiator, mr bagis, does not take our resolution and therefore our democratic decision-making structures seriously. turkey is showing more than clearly that it is still generations away from the eu!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the irish writer jonathan swift, in his famous book gulliver's travels, sent gulliver on a journey, and mr. swift sent him to the land of the dwarves. but mr. gulliver realized he'd arrived in the land of the giants. it seems to me that american diplomacy has followed the gulliver's errand, believing that the european parliament can be treated as a club of dwarfs. this is a mistake! i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de gucht, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. this agreement bears and breathes the spirit of the security ideology of the united states of america, but it does not breathe the spirit of the protection of the fundamental rights which we, as members of the european parliament, must guarantee to the citizens of this continent. the possibility of transmitting large amounts of data without specifying them, without specifying them in a specific case, is a fundamental contradiction to what we have imposed on the european public in terms of data protection, in all parliaments, including the national parliaments. the serious problems of data protection have already been raised, even by you: how long will the data be stored? who stores them? who's passing it on to who? what is my chance of finding out what is happening with my data, to whom it is being shared, whether it is real data? how can i legally protect myself against having incorrect data collected from me or being passed on to interested third parties - whoever they may be? when will my data be deleted after it has been collected and stored? under the homeland security act, data can be stored for up to 90 years. if it's a guarantee that i'll live to be 90, well, i'll have to argue with that. but up to 90 years of this data can be stored! all these things are the serious shortcomings of this agreement. that is why, mr president-in-office of the council, mr minister rubalcaba, i have to tell you that this is a bad agreement and that we cannot accept it. if we reject it, then you have the task of negotiating a new, better agreement with the united states of america, one which - yes! - respects the security interests, which we are in favour of, but which at the same time respects the security interests of the citizens, as far as their freedom is concerned, which we are in favour of. the aim of renegotiation must be to find a compromise between the two. i cannot recommend to my group that we approve this agreement in its present form. i shall propose to my group that it be rejected this evening.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first, a preliminary remark on the discussions with the experts and the us ambassador. i have not felt myself degraded in the two conversations i have had to a european dwarf or a dwarf girl, quite the contrary. in these talks with the experts from the usa, i learned a great deal about the completely different legal systems in the usa and in europe in terms of the protection of fundamental rights. i am actually grateful to the americans for engaging in this dialogue so widely. i have become clear about the task ahead of us, and the council has not yet done justice to it. i have become aware of the task facing europeans if we want to guarantee in an agreement effective counter-terrorism and at the same time effective protection of fundamental rights. i think it is a shame that people have to come across the pond to explain this fundamental area of tension to us, and that the council has not been able to have such an honest debate with parliament. the rapporteur has made it very clear in which areas fundamental rights, which enjoy the highest protection in europe, are being violated. i would like to add something which i think is extremely problematic from a legal and political point of view when dealing with this matter. the definition of terrorism is completely different in the united states and in europe, and this is a problem that is also being addressed by this agreement. it has rightly been said: we in this house are accountable to the citizens of the eu whether we ensure that their rights are upheld or not. i believe that we cannot agree to an agreement which many of us have repeatedly declared in public - mr weber, mr langen is not here now, mr schulz - to be in breach of the law. we have to jump now! we have announced this to the citizens in the public debate. we must vote against the interim agreement and not after a delay. parliament must not again shirk its responsibilities. we did that in november. we would have had the opportunity to apply emergency braking, but the majority of us did not want to do that. we must now make the leap and thereby - and i am saying this after the consultations with the americans - put ourselves in a better and more equal negotiating position for greater security and greater civil rights in the european union, perhaps even in the united states.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the swift agreement was negotiated by a dubious procedure and quickly enforced one day before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in order to bypass parliament. but what i want to say next is about the content. we have big brother's little sister to eat. mrs clinton believes she can persuade us members of parliament of what we do not persuade our own governments of. it is, in my view, fundamentally wrong for alleged terrorism investigators to have such extensive access to databases, because this undermines people's informational self-determination. the aim is to store personal data for years and decades, and no one can control how it is used. the fact that the agreement is limited in time does not prevent further storage. information on the whereabouts of the data and compensation for unlawful use by third countries cannot be challenged. the state takes precedence over the citizen, and the citizen is degraded to the level of a suspect. bypassing the eu, member states allow other governments to spy on their citizens. should telekom, deutsche bahn or the schlecker drugstore chain still be ashamed of collecting information on their employees? is it now becoming the norm for the german government to buy data from tax investigators that has been obtained illegally? we are in a situation where a parliament must also make a commitment and take a decision. why would google develop any data-blocking thresholds in the future? terrorism must be fought, especially its causes - i think we can all agree on this - but not without sacrificing fundamental rights! i have heard many speeches here about the eu as a community of values. we are now going to 'sweep the path' to one of these values. my group cannot agree to that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these threatening searches can be summed up in one word: it is ridiculous! the united states and the council are not trying to save an indispensable instrument, they are trying to save face. there are a number of agreements and measures to combat terrorism. swift could be a useful building block. the failed attack on 25 december has clearly shown that there is no lack of data, but a lack of effective management of data. it's a distraction. the transitional agreement is simply terrible. it is contradictory in itself. instead of making sure that only data from specific suspects is actually being transferred, massive amounts of data are being sent to the united states every month. the agreement is a flagrant disregard for civil rights, data protection and the rule of law. if the council and the united states were really prepared to accept this criticism and to include it in an agreement, there would be no reason to agree to this bad agreement. in the interests of the citizens, we must say no to the transitional agreement, and we must immediately start new negotiations so that we can have a really good agreement, an additional, effective building block for the fight against terrorism, while respecting our fundamental rights!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. without effective and rapid data exchange, there is no security in the age of mobility, and we are basically tasked with protecting our populations from terrorist attacks. so we have to find the balance between security and privacy. the agreement now under discussion is intended to strike that balance. but if this is so important, then the council's approach in this case was simply dilettantism. i would ask that the rapporteur be given more concessions and that she be given concrete information so that we can perhaps at last have a majority in parliament. until we have this, the tftp programme is an important programme in its own right, and until we have this, it is important to encourage swift to transfer only individual data. until we have that, the agreement would be 100% correct, and until we have that, this agreement is important. so i think you should go in the direction of shifting and then ultimately just basically.... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i listened to you very carefully, as did all the other members. they used the phrase: 'give me more time to talk to my colleagues in the council, give me more time to come back with an improved agreement!' i would therefore ask you very specifically if i may take this to mean that the council is no longer insisting on this agreement and on the vote on this agreement and that you want to have time to negotiate a new and improved agreement with the united states of america. did i understand you correctly to say that?
acting president of the council. - mr president, the council would like to stress once again the importance of not interrupting the flow of financial data between europe and the united states. but the council is also aware that the warnings, criticisms - and also suggestions - of the members of parliament must be the subject of reflection. that is why i have asked for time to study with all the countries of the european union, with the individual member states, the need to incorporate this type of reflection into the new agreement. and i have asked for time - and i think this is more important - to explore with the united states the will, which i believe the united states has, to incorporate into the new agreement a good deal of the precautions, the precautions, the limitations that the european parliament has expressed this afternoon here, in short, to seek in the final agreement a better balance between security and freedom, which is, in short, what we are talking about here. and i want time to explore this possibility and to be able to come to parliament and in a sitting like this, before proceeding to a vote, to say to parliament: 'the commission and the council have the commitment of the united states to incorporate these suggestions of the european parliament into the new agreement'. i think that under those conditions the debate we would have would probably be quite different from the one we have here this afternoon.
this is very useful, mr president, and thank you for making it possible. if i understand correctly - it is a sensitive issue which we are discussing at this stage - the council representative cannot give us any assurance that the existing agreement will not be put into effect. so it will work if we postpone, if we give it time. so my next question is: can the council representative give us an assurance that, for example, within a month there will be a long-term agreement in which the higher standards are fixed, or is the council telling us that we still have to wait nine months until the end of the period? the council has already given its assurance that it will not accept any unconditional assurance, and we should therefore have clear conditions for what the council is giving us in order to decide tomorrow on a possible postponement.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the council, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i'm glad that we're not just talking about swift and body scanners today, but we're having a general debate about counterterrorism, because this is a topic that moves us. in retrospect, we must say that terrorism is real, that terrorism is a threat to the people of europe. our activities are positive. i would also like to express my gratitude to our authorities. the people who are out there keeping us safe have done a good job in the last few years. i'd also like to thank our partners. now it's about looking to the future. what will happen in the next few years? i have three specific requests, three specific proposals. the first concerns cooperation between public authorities in europe. it's in every document as a headline that we need to work together, that we need to strengthen cooperation. wonderful declarations practically nothing happened! and in toledo, nothing happened in the practical cooperation. there is no lack of action - detroit has shown this - there is a lack of cooperation from the authorities. that's our problem. i therefore ask the council to do its job here and the commission to put forward proposals. secondly, i would consider, in the collection of data, in the mobile data, for example, in the storage of data, to challenge the laws that we have adopted so far. that is why you have the support of the epp, which is why we are supporting the evaluation positively. that's something that needs to be tested after a few years. thirdly, we were just discussing swift. so i ask you to consider: why does cooperation with the united states have to be organized in this way? it must be organised in this way because we europeans are not in a position to evaluate the data ourselves. so the question is, are we confident enough to assess this ourselves? that would be an idea for the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not minister pérez rubalcaba was right, we do not have a safe system for air at the moment. we want to have more safety in the air. detroit and munich, germany has also shown that we have gaps there, and that's why the body scanner miracle drug has been magically removed from the hat. they exist in the united states, they exist in holland and in other countries. the question is, does this really make the air safer? that is one of the crucial questions we must ask ourselves. there's a lot of questions about body scanners. what technology is used? what kind of rays are used? are they harmful to health? what can you see? just a few green or red dots, or can you see the whole person? finally, is data protection guaranteed? besides, these scanners cost money. if we want them, who's gonna pay for them? that means there's a lot of questions that need to be answered. we're in it right now. they want to do the same and come to us with a solution. we need a europe-wide solution. we also have to think about what to do with tel aviv, with a different method. look for the bomber, not the bomb. we cannot pass this on one-to-one because it is discriminatory, but we must test all the avenues, and we must do so in a way that respects fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the epp sees the fight against terrorism as the challenge of the 21st century. we are facing this at the professional and parliamentary level. in the committee on transport and tourism we have not only made regulations on the ban on liquids in hand luggage, but we are also dealing with body scanners. i must say one thing in advance: as several colleagues have already pointed out, there is no such thing as 100% security at present and there will be no such thing in the future. but we can, of course, develop techniques that allow us to approach this 100 percent certainty asymptotically. we must observe certain basic rules, including in the parliamentary field. we have already agreed, beyond the groups, that the health of the passengers must not be affected as much as possible. this is why it is necessary to put in practice well-designed body scanners that work on a very specific basis. the rights of the individual must be respected, that is clear. we should not always use body scanners as an example of any kind of scanning, which then goes towards nude scans as an example. we have agreed in the committee on transport, together with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, that the commission will present us with a legislative proposal on body scanners at the end of march/beginning of april, in any case before the summer break. there are a few things to consider: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. body scanners are clearly - and this is completely undeniable - an invasion of privacy, and a serious invasion. in fact, we have to ask ourselves two questions. the first question is, in fact, to what extent this is proportionate and can actually help the objective of combating terrorism. there are no clear answers yet. i therefore support what mrs malmström said about the need for an evaluation of all the instruments. i want them on the table before we do anything. the second is the health risks. all of us in this room -- and those of us who are elsewhere now -- would be under the scanner several times a week. i'd have to do that at least twice a week. this is a permanent measure, and i'd like to know how much it's harming my health. there are no real estimates yet. i want to say quite frankly that unless there is one, i am not prepared to submit to it, and i therefore demand clear answers and no quick shots.
member of the commission. − mr president, the high representative and vice-president of the commission, cathy ashton, asked me to make the following remarks. allow me to thank you for this very timely invitation to address you on ukraine, which is a key partner for the european union. as you will be aware, a second round of presidential elections took place on sunday in ukraine. this was an important event, not just for the country itself, but for the wider region as a whole. it is important because a democratic ukraine will serve as an important example to its neighbours. we welcome the positive assessment made by the osce/odihr-led international election observation mission that the elections were conducted in accordance with international standards and that there has been further progress in ukraine’s already good electoral track-record since 2004. the statement issued by the high representative on monday expressed this sentiment. it also congratulated the people of ukraine for their continued commitment to the democratic process. the high turnout on both election days was particularly encouraging. it is clear that ukraine’s democracy is continuing its process of consolidation. the population of the country goes to the polls, makes its choice freely, and expects to be heard. this is a significant achievement. most importantly, it demonstrates ukraine’s attachment to european values. elections have winners and losers. it is the electorate who decides. as we meet here today in strasbourg, official election results have not yet been certified by the central election commission. preliminary election results show a very small gap between the two contestants. we have already heard about possible challenges to the results in the courts. some local court cases have already been initiated. it is logical and legitimate that any possible problems are investigated. at the same time, it is of utmost importance that the electoral process as a whole continues in a smooth manner, demonstrating both the resilience and depth of ukraine’s democratic maturity and the candidates’ own shared commitment to the country’s development. every election is a demonstration of popular will. it is also an opportunity for a new start. it is now vital for ukraine to move forward. the success of the electoral process in ukraine – given ukraine’s geographical and strategic importance – matters to the eu, and to europe as a whole. in the past years, we have seen political instability, characterised by competition between the president and prime minister, exacerbated by a lack of clarity in the constitution. ukraine has consistently held good elections, and has a vibrant civil society and free media. regrettably, however, the overall reform process – which is vital for ukraine – has significantly slowed. much more should have been done in the past years. pre-election politics also got in the way of the implementation of the imf standby arrangement, with ukraine failing to meet required conditions. the weakness of ukraine’s constitutional framework has also contributed to this. i am convinced that i speak for all of us in saying that we look to the new leadership in ukraine to give new impetus to its reform efforts. as a first priority, in order to address the effects of the global financial crisis and ensure future economic stability, ukraine needs to get back on track with the imf programme, without delay. this is also a precondition for the disbursement of possible eu macrofinancial assistance. in the weeks and months to come, we will see a new administration being formed in kiev. the eu’s message to ukraine’s leadership is consistent and clear: now is the time to act. we expect to see concrete steps forward. reform is essential for ukraine’s own long-term prosperity and security. it is in ukraine’s own interest – not just to please the international community. this message was also already conveyed at the eu-ukraine summit of 4 december 2009. action is needed at many levels. on the economic front, ukraine needs to take urgent action to tackle corruption and to improve the business and investment climate. this includes efforts to strengthen the independence of the judiciary, to open up the economy and to ensure fair and transparent competition – for example by the adoption of a public procurement law in line with international standards and the european union acquis. at the same time, essential sectoral reforms in areas such as energy – in particular the gas sector – transport and the environment need to be undertaken and implemented. we have also consistently encouraged ukraine to revisit constitutional reform, to bring stability and put in place functioning ground rules for political life. a constitution needs to stand the test of time, and its reform should not be tied to short-term political considerations. it is up to ukraine to choose the model it wants to adopt. however, it should ensure that an effective system of checks and balances is in place which avoids the political paralysis that ukraine has experienced in the past. the help and advice of the venice commission will be important in ensuring that this is done in a manner corresponding to european standards, availing of the best experience available. over and above the first reform priorities, ukraine needs to continue the extensive task of ensuring regulatory approximation with european union standards. this is a prerequisite to ensure that ukraine can enjoy the full benefits of the new and ambitious eu-ukraine association agreement which we are currently negotiating with ukraine – including a deep and comprehensive free trade area, it is our task to encourage ukraine on the way forward and to support kiev’s own leadership in a process of far-reaching reforms and modernisation. we have many tools to do so. through the european neighbourhood policy, we have the means to support ukraine’s own reform efforts. already today, ongoing and planned technical and financial cooperation with ukraine is in the region of eur 435 million, without counting possible macrofinancial assistance. the eastern partnership has brought additional tools. the comprehensive institution-building programme envisaged by the eastern partnership is a case in point, as it specifically targets institutions within the ukrainian government which need strengthening in order to deliver on reform. more generally, in negotiations with ukraine on a new ambitious eu-ukraine association agreement we have set out our goals clearly: political association and economic integration between the european union and ukraine. this is a very significant undertaking, including the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area involving extensive regulatory approximation to the european union acquis. but our offer to ukraine is not a one-way street. the pace at which ukraine and the eu come closer together in the future depends on the quality and depth of ukraine’s own reform efforts. we look forward to working with ukraine’s new leadership to achieve our common goals. we have been in contact today through our cabinets with the high representative and my colleague in the commission, and let me summarise the three following messages: firstly, we both agreed that these elections testified the vibrancy of democracy in ukraine; secondly, we are committed to deepening the relationship with ukraine and supporting it in implementing its reform agenda; and, thirdly, we look forward to starting a constructive cooperation with the president-elect as soon as official results are announced.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. we're a little disappointed. i am one of those who was in the tent during the orange revolution in kiev and now i have to see what has been done in the last five years. i would like to call out president yushchenko for not bringing stability to his country, for not creating parliamentary opportunities and for holding up legislation. he is certainly responsible for the failure of the orange revolution. i hope that with this election, stability will come to the country. however, i am concerned that despite the what looks like formally secured elections, this is also a stable democracy that believes in itself. because if you change the legislation three days before the second round, in the middle of the elections, for whatever purpose, it does not mean that you have understood it. it is a matter of great concern to us. i believe that we need to deal very intensively with the question of the development of democracy and the rule of law in ukraine, linked to the issue of stability - which is not a contradiction, but the consequence of it. the commissioner has a special responsibility in the area of neighbourhood policy. because neighbourhood policy does not mean continuing as before, but neighbourhood policy means that we now use our instruments, not only in bilateral relations with a country like ukraine or others in the region, but also in a multilateral approach for these countries, so that they grow closer together and become more stable within themselves. we must give them a perspective which does not mean talking every day about the enlargement of the european union, but rather offering them visa facilities, a possible free trade area and perhaps even a norwegian status in a european economic area. it is not a question of the european union being a political force, but of the european union being a political force. i hope the new government will prove worthy of such a project.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by referring to mr brok. yes, it was a very sad result for the hero of 2004, viktor yushchenko, to be punished in the first round of the election. i believe that mr yushchenko has paid the price for many of the failures of all the actors at the head of the ukrainian parties or blocs. one of the main things we have to deal with is that at the moment we cannot find in the leadership of ukrainian parties people in ukraine who really trust to lead their country in the interests and for the benefit of all citizens. if there is a result of the election observers - besides the proper conduct of the election, because this was given - then it was the realization gained in many conversations that actually the lesser evil was chosen at best. no citizen i have met has attached great expectations to this choice. this is a threat to such a young democracy, which has already moved further away from the former soviet system than any other country in the east of the continent. mr füle, i hope that your presence here today and the absence of cathy ashton does not mean that ukraine is now back in the minority and somehow disappearing from the priorities of foreign and security policy. it has to be a very big priority, and it hasn't been for the last five years. the internal failures in ukraine are counterbalanced by failures in european strategies. we must no longer take this lightly, and this orientation towards the west deserves our full support. we have a lot to lose. gas is a topic that is getting a lot of attention. i'm just saying sevastopol. we have a great conflict coming our way. we can't just let things go back to the way they were. you have taken on a great responsibility.
acting president of the council. - i believe that the future 2020 strategy should be centred on precisely what you are referring to, and that is precisely, mrs ţicău, employment that is not as precarious, not as volatile, not as unstable as we have had in the european union. and you have mentioned spain, which has suffered, particularly in the real estate sector. so we have to move towards a production model that itself creates stronger, more solid, more stable jobs, based on specialization. so we must move towards measures along these lines, measures which strengthen the specialisation and training of workers, to place them in those jobs of the knowledge society, of information technologies, of the specialised society, on which the production model and the job creation of the future must be based. that is the idea, and we believe that each country must put it into practice, but we must coordinate it among all the european countries. and we also need to help from the european union, for example through incentives or stimulus such as the use of certain structural funds - such as the european social fund - by encouraging those countries which invest precisely in this productive model of creating quality jobs. i believe that this should be the approach that should be at the centre, at the heart of the strategy that we must all put into practice, not beyond the next few months, not beyond the european council in june, to replace the insufficient strategy called the lisbon strategy.
acting president of the council. - madam president, mr posselt, you are well aware that one of the main instruments of our relations on the subject of human rights in china is the biannual dialogue on human rights, which was established more than 15 years ago. it is therefore a structured dialogue which offers us the opportunity to exchange views on these matters of concern to us. in november last year the council adopted conclusions on religious freedom which allowed us to reiterate once again, in a clear way, the position of the european union on this matter. respect for religious freedom, as defined in international human rights instruments, is part of the human rights clause in agreements between the european union and third countries. over the past five years, the european union has regularly raised the issues of religious freedom and belief in its human rights dialogues and in its consultations with third countries, made a number of statements on the subject and has taken action in relation to persons threatened for their beliefs. the european union has been very active at the global level in promoting religious freedom in international fora such as the united nations general assembly and the human rights council. in relation to china, the council set out in 2001 a number of benchmarks for the human rights dialogue. i can assure you, mr president, that religious freedom is an integral part of those criteria. we have recently discussed this subject several times with our chinese counterparts, we have met with the relevant authorities in beijing and, in the spirit of the dialogue, religious leaders have visited europe to increase their knowledge of the practices of various member states.
mr president, thank you very much for your detailed reply. i have just two quick supplementary questions. first, when is the next opportunity to talk to china about things? secondly, could you also advocate for a concrete list of imprisoned priests, nuns and bishops if there are ?
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the impact of the economic crisis on international trade by vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0005/2010 b7-0005/2010).
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have heard many times that world trade has fallen dramatically in the last three months, despite the fortunate efforts of many wto members to keep markets as open as possible. i am also very grateful that the european union has played a very good role here and has taken almost no protectionist measures. in my country, we have a saying: "the best defense is a good offense". if i take up what mrs andrikienė has just mentioned, namely certain measures taken by russia, the question arises as to what effective means we have to take offensively against those trading partners who have not adhered to what was agreed in the g20, who have nevertheless adopted protectionist measures that have closed markets and have contributed to the fact that global economic performance has fallen even further than it should have. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am thinking of a possible new initiative to finally move forward within the wto. i am thinking of our consistent and rapid negotiation of free trade agreements. we have a result in south korea. but what about the efforts in india, canada, colombia and peru? wouldn't it be an incredibly great signal if we could make progress on these free trade agreements right now? many colleagues have addressed the developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have seen that the countries which participate in world trade have made the best progress in recent decades. i would be grateful if you could answer that, commissioner.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. first of all, i would like to congratulate you on your appointment as commissioner. we are pleased to have a politician as agile as he is successful and a distinguished liberal. it will also depend on your persuasive power to give new impetus to the eu's international trade policy. protectionist tendencies must be combated. there is clear evidence from history that countries that have participated in world trade have developed better than others. nevertheless, we are also facing a new world order. there are players - i am thinking of china - who are entering the ring with a state capitalist system, perhaps with very different methods, and that is why i am calling on the commission to develop a new strategy for world trade. the doha development round must be brought forward because a multilateral approach is the right one. but we also need all the strength to make progress in relations with china.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to continue with a matter which has already been raised by two colleagues. the commissioner is now fortunately also responsible for the tec. i would be very grateful if you would put the issue of tec at the top of your agenda - especially in order to solve all the problems we have discussed. we in europe still account for almost 60% of the world's economic output, together with the americans. if we can only partially remove trade barriers in the transatlantic market, we can achieve much more for our citizens and therefore for workers than with some of the other measures in which we have invested much more energy over the last five years. i would be very grateful if you could also address the subject of tec.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the eu-south korea free trade agreement, tabled by mr daniel caspary, mr peter šťastný, mr paweł zalewski, mr david martin, mr gianluca susta, mr kader arif, mr michael theurer, mr niccolò rinaldi, mr metin kazak, ms marielle de sarnez, mr jan zahradil, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats), the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, and the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, european conservatives and reformists (o-0171/2009 - b7-0001/2010).
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the agreement with south korea has been negotiated and the texts are very well initialled. but if you look at the details of the agreement, it seems that sometimes speed was more important than thoroughness. yes, it seems that your predecessor wanted to get the agreement under control at all costs, to at least have a success in her tenure. we are aware of many reports which were drawn up before the start of the negotiations and which clearly show the many potential benefits for european industry and the european economy. positive effects are seen in the mechanical engineering, chemical, pharmaceutical, food and services sectors. all these sectors and many others are looking to benefit greatly. but the automobile industry is the main one complaining. we have the problems of duty drawback, we have the problems of what foreign supplier parts can be fitted to south korean vehicles, and we have the problems of environmental standards which are still unresolved. i hope that we will use the next few months to use the opportunity of safeguard mechanisms and safeguard regulation to address, not just address, but resolve many of these criticisms. we in parliament can only give our consent to this free trade agreement if we have addressed the legitimate concerns of the automobile industry and can also incorporate really effective solutions to these protection mechanisms. the texts of the safeguard mechanisms are now available on the internet. i haven't had a chance to read it. i am proposing to you on behalf of my group that we work together with you in partnership to develop appropriate regulation at european level so that the interests of the automotive industry are not also affected by this free trade agreement.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the treaty of lisbon opens a new chapter in cooperation between the commission, the council and parliament. the co-decision of the european parliament, directly elected by the citizens, now offers the chance to redemocratize trade policy decisions. this is right, because the consequences affect people as workers and consumers in the member states. free and fair trade is the foundation of europe's prosperity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. free trade agreements such as the one with south korea can make an important contribution to the revival of world trade and to growth and employment. the nature of the matter is that, depending on the specific design of the contractual arrangement, some sectors will benefit more from the agreement than others. it is our task here in parliament to weigh carefully the impact on the industries and sectors in the eu. but we need the data and impact assessments for this. it is the commission's task to submit them. unfortunately, despite repeated requests in committee and in plenary, this has not yet been done satisfactorily in our view. that is why we, the alde group, have taken part in the initiative of this question. the information we have so far indicates that the agreement offers opportunities for the european economy in the service sector, the mechanical engineering sector, the chemical industry and agriculture. however, the automotive and textile industries and the electronics industry are concerned about the negative impact. the free trade agreement with south korea is the only agreement with a developed country in which customs refunds are not prohibited. this may result in asymmetrical cost benefits for the south korean industry. as the commission has repeatedly assured us, the provisions on customs refunds contain a safeguard clause which allows suspension on the basis of certain criteria. but we need clarity on this point in the interests of the companies. it must be practical. it is not possible for safeguard clauses to become worthless because the necessary burden of proof cannot be borne by the undertakings. it is precisely because the agreement seems to contain asymmetrical rules and because it will have a high precedent effect for future agreements - for example with india or with asean - that we attach central importance to the concrete form of the safeguard clauses, dispute settlement and other rules in the implementation package. we therefore call on the commission to submit the free trade agreement together with the implementing provisions to parliament for a decision. we want a quick decision. this is precisely why the agreement cannot be applied provisionally. i know from talking to companies how important it is to implement later. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we think that needs to be included.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam president, thank you for this opportunity. you mentioned the situation with opel and antwerp. i ask you: do you agree that opel has been in serious economic difficulties for some months now, that opel could produce far more cars than it does, and that the poor economic situation of opel cannot be caused by a free trade agreement which is not even in force yet?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i have three questions for you. firstly, we need a level playing field. if i look at the fact that workers' rights are restricted in south korea, then there are unfair conditions of competition, for example the question of collective action. in the south korean penal code, section 314, there is a criminal offence of "operational disruption" and it is used to prevent strikes and restrict trade union rights, for example in the ssangyong case. i wonder why free trade agreements are being concluded with the countries which have the most problems with ilo standards, such as south korea or colombia. so my first question is: how do you intend to ensure that the free trade agreement does not create unfair conditions of competition by restricting the rights of workers in south korea? secondly, the problems of the automobile industry have already been raised by several colleagues. it is crucial that there are reasonable safeguards. if you look at this now, there are general safeguards when there are major market disruptions, and there are safeguards for the duty drawback system. i'm not able to understand this correctly. commissioner, perhaps you could explain the security clauses to me in simple terms. and most of all, who can trigger it when? my third question is this: the treaty of lisbon has given us a new contractual basis for our cooperation. this includes the adoption of safeguard clauses and the implementation of the codecision. can you guarantee me that the free trade agreement will not come into force before parliament has adopted this procedure, but only after parliament has acted in its right and the safeguard clauses have been adopted?
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to say i am glad that this proposal enjoys such broad support in parliament. i regret that the process lasted longer than many of you expected, but i would like to say that i am absolutely convinced that social dialogue has to play a role: we have to respect the opinion of the social partners. this not only enhances the legitimacy of a decision, it also helps with its implementation, because those who participate in the creation of a new rule are more interested in its success. this is very important. we are already aware that there is a working document between the social partners concerning clarification of the framework agreement and also its implementation, so we hope – and i think that we can trust – that this will play a significant role in finalisation in the council: this will be an answer to some of the concerns about implementation. apart from that there is also an interest in the longer term follow-up. this is also very important in order to monitor how successful this new directive will be. i would like to draw your attention to the text which says that the signatory parties shall review the application of this agreement five years after the date of the council decision if requested by one of the parties to the agreement. in other words it is very important that the monitoring of implementation and of changes in the occurrence of such injuries should be the starting point, should any of the parties wish to use this opportunity. finally, let me say, on what is just the second day of the new commission –as a few speakers highlighted in their messages – that it is indeed very important that the commission pays more attention to the forgotten people in europe, those age groups or professions which cannot easily speak for themselves: they have been sometimes ignored or sidelined in earlier times. the healthcare sector is clearly an important sector; we have to give it a lot of devotion and attention. it is not only that workers in the hospital and healthcare sector are exposed to sharp injuries and infections, we all know that they also work very long hours. so we have to take a kind of comprehensive approach when considering groups like this, which are very important, especially in times of crisis when the expected fiscal consolidation will affect the conditions these people work in. this is why this should be very high on our agenda, as it is on my personal agenda.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you can imagine the great pleasure i have to be here just 48 hours after the inauguration of the college - for which i thank you - and to continue, mr harbour - i say this in particular to the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - my work with you, in a different way, and, no doubt, in a different place, but in the same spirit. three points of answer at this point before i listen to you carefully. first, about your first question. as you said, the commission has opened infringement proceedings against a number of member states in relation to the crossborder provision of sports betting services. the commission notes that in four of these nine infringement cases i.e. denmark, france, italy and hungary , amendments to national legislation have been proposed to address infringement procedures. the commission will continue to work with all member states concerned to resolve the problems identified in these infringement procedures. in general, these procedures remain open, but it is for the new commission to decide on the development of these cases. secondly, mr harbour, the recent decision of the european court of justice in the portuguese case, where a former state monopoly strictly controls gambling services. the commission's legal services have analysed the case and concluded that this decision will not fundamentally change the development and evaluation of infringement proceedings in this area. all cases were assessed on the basis of the evidence submitted by each member state. following the recent decisions of the court, the commission notes that the court still requires, in accordance with established case law, that any restrictions are, first, justified by valid general interest objectives and, second, necessary and proportionate, which includes the need for restrictions to be appropriate, consistent and systematic. it is therefore not clear from the santa casa judgment that the court gives member states greater freedom to impose restrictions. the court makes very precise references to the portuguese monopoly's operating methods, its very long history and the very specific circumstances of that country. as the third point of my first speech, i would like to emphasize that the commission, ladies and gentlemen, does not exclude alternative solutions to infringement procedures. i want to start a constructive discussion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the european parliament, but also with the member states and the parties concerned on this issue. i note that there has been no consultation of the member states on this issue since they chose to remove gambling from the scope of the services directive in 2006. i will therefore, ladies and gentlemen, listen to the member states and have decided to follow the work of the council working party closely. i know that parliament, at the instigation of mrs schaldemose, adopted a report on 10 march, even though a number of members supported a counter-proposal. i think that the work of parliament is a good starting point for us to open a real debate on a potential european solution to this complex issue. we need to deepen our examination of the reasons why member states restrict online gambling services. in this context, we must naturally deal with - and i have decided to do so - societal aspects, in particular gambling addiction problems. the college has been in place for only two days, ladies and gentlemen, and we have not yet adopted our work programme. i want to do this consultation work, which starts today by listening very carefully to everything you will say to each other and for which there are naturally - i am talking about the consultation work - several assumptions. in particular, one of the proposals i am prepared to study is a green paper on this subject. i would like to thank you again for your interest in this important subject and for the contribution you will make to the work of the commission i am going to set up.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. first of all, on behalf of the epp group, i should like to express my satisfaction that you, commissioner, have just made it clear that you intend to carry out a targeted examination not only of the case law on the portuguese league but also of the question of what the status of the council working party might be in terms of adequate responses to the growing online gambling market. this oral question is only about online gambling. i understood the santa casa judgment to mean that the european court of justice told the member states that, although the gambling market was not like any other market, the member states had to agree on rules which were uniform throughout the community. this attempt by the council, which it was so anxious to make, has not been dealt with in a constructive way. the commission must therefore make progress with parliament on critical issues. i would like to add a second point, which is that i am not convinced by the member states' arguments in relation to the protection of consumers in the gambling market. in the case of liga portuguesa and santa casa, member states also claim that in the area of online gambling, only member states, without a european component, are able to enforce consumer protection objectives and effectively combat associated crime. but the reverse is true, and it creates a situation where, with even more tragic crimes and other things happening on the internet, europe may be even less able to provide solutions here. i think that's absurd, i don't think that's true. i don't know what you're talking about. i believe that the only way to solve the online gambling market is to find cross-border rules that are uniform, that protect the interests of the member states in their historical structures, but at the same time put the interests of consumers - as the committee chairman pointed out - at the centre.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. thank you for the information you have given us, but frankly, i am not entirely satisfied. the commission's predecessor had set itself a very clear objective, namely the liberalisation of the gambling market. the european parliament has repeatedly made it clear that this cannot be the right approach, and that is why the european parliament - not the member states - for example, in the services directive, excluded gambling from the scope of that directive. we felt that this was not a normal service but that we had to ensure that protective barriers were put in place for citizens against organised crime and that we needed clear regulations to do this. the european commission is continuing to overwhelm the member states with cases before the european court of justice, and it is time for the european commission to stop doing so, because it has lost before the european court of justice time and again. you just have to see this. i therefore welcome the fact that you are actually implementing what you have just said, mr barnier, that a different approach will be taken in this area. because that's not the way we can move forward. i have to say to you, mr harbour, that the judgments of the european court of justice are very consistent, not at all contradictory. it has been repeatedly made clear that member states have the right to introduce clear rules in order to make the protection of citizens against crime truly controllable, and that they are not obliged to open up this market, nor are they obliged to allow market participants from other member states, if they ensure at the same time that the controls are strong and effective. that is what we are asking the european commission to do, to understand and to act on this. however, this also means that we must be particularly concerned about online gambling, because it knows no barriers, no borders, and the access of citizens to this area is also quite clear. we must think about how we can design the controls, the rules in this area, in such a way that the protection of citizens is also guaranteed.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. if we are to develop and unify the internal market, then we must also have uniform rules. there are three aspects to the online gambling issue that should be considered in the discussion. how can the interests of citizens and consumers be best protected? what is the best way to combat fraud and criminal behaviour? how can damage to consumers be prevented? the european parliament's resolution of 10 march 2009 on the integrity of online gambling provided clear pathways and behaviours on these issues. the alde group continues to support the principles on the integrity of online gambling set out in the european parliament resolution of 10 march 2009. the court of justice has ruled that each member state is free to regulate online gambling independently under certain conditions, and the resolution of 10 march strongly underlines this. national regulations are better placed to combat fraud by gambling syndicates, even if they cannot be completely excluded, as recent examples in germany show. however, gambling markets can be better regulated at national level in accordance with their traditions and cultures. this provides better protection for players against addiction, fraud, money laundering and gambling collusion than is possible through large online gambling operators, which by definition always operate across borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. online gambling provides more opportunities for corrupt behaviour such as fraud, match-fixing and illegal betting cartels, as online gambling can be set up and dismantled very quickly. in particular, illegal betting operators from outside europe are a problem here, as they can hardly be regulated and controlled. the profits from gambling must be used primarily for the benefit of society, for example to promote sports. this can best be achieved at national level. the continuous financing of, for example, culture and professional and amateur sports gives the individual member states a certain legitimacy to allow gambling in the first place. however, this also requires that the dangers of gambling addiction are pointed out and that they are proactively combated. since the full impact of specific forms of online gambling on consumers is not yet known, there is an urgent need to act to close this knowledge gap. it is also important that the member states do their part. market surveillance is also the key word in the discussion of online gambling. if we in the european parliament agree that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the member states have the right to regulate their gambling markets in accordance with their traditions and cultures, then we must also ensure that this is done through effective control and thus market surveillance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not after my two speeches, i don't really have to say much more. i would just like to make it very clear once again that we as a group fully support the resolution adopted by parliament, that we also doubt the statement that the ecj has given a mixed verdict here - on the contrary, i find the ecj's judgments very clear - and that we very much welcome your statement that you want to open consultation with the member states. perhaps i may add that a consultation would be better than an appeal procedure. this is the right way to solve the problem, to take account of national specificities and to find a common solution for consumers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a question to the commission, a question to mrs malmström: did i understand correctly, mrs malmström, that you support the epp's request for an extension in your capacity as commissioner? i would like to ask you why you did not support these demands during your six months as minister for europe in the swedish presidency. then we would not have to discuss this postponement today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the need for a determined fight against terrorism in the european union and, in conjunction with this, for close cooperation and partnership with the united states is indisputable. however, i voted against the swift transitional agreement because fundamental data protection issues are not clear. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i very much hope that parliament will now be fully involved and that such an unworthy procedure will not be repeated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. the data protection interests of the citizens of the european union must also be respected in any transfer of european data to third parties. i will continue to work for that.
in writing. − in certain situations, micro-credit can help people to start businesses and thus find a way out of the crisis. nevertheless, my group and i voted today against the cutting of eur 60 million from the progress programme in favour of micro-credit. the esf regulation provides for the possibility of granting microcredit. it has a total volume of eur 76 billion for the period 2007-2013, a good part of which is available for microcredit. the esf also offers the possibility of offering microcredit in conjunction with other measures. but instead of exploiting these possibilities, a new micro-credit instrument is being set up, with a high level of bureaucracy and a very low budget. and what is worse, this new instrument is to be financed by the eu's smallest programme, the european poverty programme progress (total of 743 million). the impression given by the advocates that new funds are being provided is false: in reality, funds are being diverted to support the socially disadvantaged. we greens do not accept such money-making tricks where money is taken from the poorest of the poor to create a new credit instrument for the poor. we need not a new instrument financed by the poverty programme that sells well in the media, but the courage to provide an actual eu budget for this.
in writing. - my decision against the swift interim agreement is not a decision against cooperation with the united states in the fight against terrorism. i am in favour of a new agreement to be agreed as soon as possible, which will allow for close cooperation between european and american security services and will enable the detection of suspected terrorist money transfers. however, the interim agreement had major shortcomings, including insufficient provisions on data deletion, rights of action and access, and on the transfer to third parties. furthermore, i expect a genuine partnership between the european union and the united states of america to leave the work of ensuring the security of citizens, including in the area of a terrorist finance tracking program (tftp), not only to the united states of america, but also to provide within the european union a clearly defined timeframe for the development of a european tftp in cooperation with the united states. i therefore hope that an agreement will be negotiated soon which will provide a long-term basis for a joint fight against global terrorism, including the detection of terrorist networks and their financial transactions, and which will respect the protection of citizens' data.
in writing. - i voted to postpone the vote on the swift agreement. a delay of four weeks would have opened the way for further negotiations. we knew the commission was behind us in this decision; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but by rejecting the postponement, this parliament has missed the opportunity to use its new powers responsibly and to increase its own influence in the negotiations. i could not agree to the swift agreement then either. the breach of trust that the united states has committed in an incredibly arrogant self-serving mentality is too great. and the council of ministers' disregard for our parliament was too great. the european parliament must now be involved in negotiating a new long-term agreement, which is in line with eu standards, quickly and with confidence, in the interests of all transatlantic friendship, because controlled data exchange to combat international terrorism is also in the european interest.
in writing. - i voted against the swift agreement. this event was a milestone in the further democratization of europe and in the exercise of the democratic rights of parliament under the lisbon treaty for the protection of data and the individual rights of our citizens. i wish for many more hours of this kind.
in writing. to protect the staff who work in clinics and hospitals, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. in fact, too many hospital staff and health care professionals are still suffering from infections caused by injuries from the use of sharp needles or instruments. as a member of the european parliament, i must fight to prevent this. the resolution also calls for improvements in the training and working conditions of health workers to deal with this danger: safer medical instruments with integrated protection mechanisms are needed throughout the european union. i am convinced that the commission is right to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on venezuela.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am surprised that the epp is being accused in this house of putting an urgent issue on the agenda which perhaps does not suit the whole left majority in this house - i doubt that this is a majority in this house. i have to ask. it is the right of our group and others to raise this issue. and even if mr chávez - who is now in government - is in any way your spectre and the spectre of the spanish presidency of the council at the time, one must also ask what is actually being done. i wonder if someone like chávez can say "twitter is a terrorist system". sorry, but if you call twitter a terrorist system today, you're living in a different world, the stone age. i have to say: we as the epp will not accept this reproach. we denounce human rights abuses everywhere. i personally denounce human rights violations, especially in the area of freedom of the press. i have to say, here journalists are teased, they are controlled, judges are arrested when they release someone who is wrongfully detained. we must also have a say here as europeans. i do not accept the criticism of mrs de keyser and others in this house. we have exactly the same right to raise the issue of human rights violations, violations of freedom in europe and in the world!
madam, my eyes can't be everywhere. i have very observant people around me. i have also said, when i gave the floor to the last member, that 'at the end, the honourable member will speak'. there would have been opportunity to protest again. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on madagascar.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. there is concern in some capitals that our resolution could contribute to escalation in madagascar. but our goal is to bring peace to the region. i refer in particular to articles 14 and 15, which are clearly oriented towards dialogue. the african union, the european union, the un, the neighbouring countries, the contact group, and last but not least france, are called upon to play their part in bringing together the four different political currents that exist in madagascar, at least, so that a failing state does not emerge there, so that the country does not slide further into disaster, but that a peaceful solution, a negotiated solution, is reached. but it will only be possible if no one tries to establish a dictatorship there, if no one withdraws from the peace process, but if everyone returns to the negotiating table, without which this beautiful but damaged country has no future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to point out that we have a joint resolution from all the groups. and that's a good thing, because this is a very important issue. contrary to the previous discussion, i would like to say that we must also be careful in this country not only to promote freedom of expression and freedom of the press, but also to demand it massively, when it comes to how things will go after an election that is hopefully peaceful. we must ensure that we europeans, with the various means of support that make it possible to establish freedom of the press in all areas, offer all our support here and, with the eu funds, try to act together here too, within the framework of the treaties we have with the country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that we can say on the subject of madagascar that it is not only the european union which is entering the situation there through article 96 of the cotonou agreement, but that we also have the african union and sadc as a regional organisation here in a position which does not accept that a coup d'état continues to take place in africa. it is relatively new for the african union and also for the regional organisations to not only make these decisions at the table, but also to implement and take action. i hope that when the international contact group meets again in addis ababa a week from today, on 18 february, all the parties involved will take up their duties and responsibilities and ensure that what was agreed in maputo is also implemented. this is an appeal to all concerned.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, let me first of all underline our great concern about the blockages which prevent the implementation of the maputo agreements. since the beginning of the crisis and the opening of consultations with madagascar under article 96 of the cotonou agreement, the commission has actively supported the mediation efforts of the international community, which have resulted in significant progress but which, unfortunately, have not yet led to an effective transition process. we are very worried because here we are not moving forward, we are going backwards, with a clear risk of returning to the starting point of march 2009. you will agree that this can inevitably lead to a worsening of the political and human rights situation, as well as clashes between malagasy. we have made it clear on many occasions that we reject any unilateral process leading to hasty elections and which does not bring any lasting solution to the crisis. so, in answer to the honourable member's question, i would say that we are not prepared to support such a process, either politically or even financially. the initiative now taken by the president of the african union commission gives us one last hope. we are prepared to assess, together with the international community in the international contact group, the response of the malagasy movements and, depending on the situation, to submit proposals for decisions to the council under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. in the event of a negative decision, it should not affect projects directly benefiting the population, and we will continue and increase, if necessary, humanitarian aid to vulnerable populations. finally, mr president, i would like to assure you of the commission's active, patient and persistent commitment to finding a consensual solution to the crisis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on burma.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the human rights situation in burma has deteriorated dramatically: political repression with military and sexual violence, children systematically recruited as soldiers, 2 000 political prisoners. the first supposedly free elections this autumn are a mockery. the opposition parties will rightly boycott them. the situation of the rohingya is particularly serious, with more than 200 000 of them living in refugee camps. many have fled to neighboring bangladesh, where they are often brutally persecuted. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply and for the work he has done in the past. we will fly to dhaka tomorrow to get first-hand information in cox's bazar and the bandarban region. it is already clear that the persecuted rohingya need comprehensive international protection to survive. the european union must firmly reject the behaviour of the burmese until progress towards democracy is finally felt.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, as members have very clearly underlined, serious human rights violations are continuing in burma. the military government has not responded to international calls to stop those human rights infringements and it has not released political prisoners, including aung san suu kyi. pressure has increased on the rohingya minority to force them to leave the country, and the deterioration of socioeconomic conditions continues. an estimated 80% of the population live in rural areas, and severe problems in agriculture and food production are developing. the eu has several times issued declarations condemning violations of human rights. the eu has also tightened sanctions and, in parallel, we have pressed the neighbours of burma/myanmar – asean, china, india – to use diplomatic pressure too, and some of the neighbours are doing this. in addition, the eu has strongly supported the united nations efforts. these measures have created difficulties for the military government, but they have failed to make it change its behaviour. now the military government has promised elections in 2010 as a step towards its gradual exit from power. we can only judge these elections when the electoral law is published and when we see if clear and fair arrangements are in place for the ballot. in the meantime, the eu is willing to engage with the present government to persuade it to use the opportunity of the elections in order to change the situation and to start a positive phase in the history of burma. by saying this, i make it very clear that the eu does not want to isolate burma. we are, in fact, the biggest donors of humanitarian and related assistance to that country. the bulk of our assistance goes to the countryside – particularly to the delta – which is still recovering from cyclone nargis. assistance also goes to the refugee camps along the thai border. we should also know that the report of the united nations special rapporteur speaks a very clear language. we back the special united nations rapporteur and are ready to help him. but we also know that direct activities on human rights in burma are hardly possible. for instance, the eu will not be invited to observe the elections, so we have to utilise indirect measures. therefore, human rights are built into all our assistance programmes. in order to promote our values – human rights development, dialogue – we need to have a very clear message. today the united parliament had this very clear message, and i am sure it will be heard. i am also sure that we should not outsource our task of reminding myanmar of its obligations to neighbouring countries. we have to remain committed ourselves. we have to engage directly on our human rights agenda with the authorities, and we will continue to do so.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not our group had a very intensive debate on the lehne report this morning. we have not yet finished the debate in the group. that's been done before in factions. we would like to ask mr lehne, as rapporteur, to give us the opportunity to reflect again before the march partsession on the way we can go with this report and how we can position ourselves as social democrats. there are different approaches in our group - i am not going to mince words here - to this. i would be grateful if the debate could be held and if you, mr lehne, could give us the opportunity to postpone the vote until the march 1st part-session. that would give my group at least - and i believe other groups too - a little time to intensify the debate and to find out what opinions are being expressed.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i think it is good that the socialist group is giving this report serious consideration. but i would like to point out that in december 2008 we as parliament adopted almost unanimously a resolution calling on the european commission to come forward with a proposal exactly like the one we are discussing here. parliament must also itself adhere to what it has decided and what has been the declared will of this house for years. we have - because of course every legislative proposal has its doubts here and there - resolved the open questions by a compromise in the legal affairs committee. i can say that this compromise is decisive. i understand, however, that it may be useful to widen the circle of those who support this report. if mr schulz's efforts are aimed at widening the circle of supporters, i have no objection to a delay until the next plenary session in march. that is my personal position on this. it is not the position of the group of the european people's party, which decided otherwise this morning. but i think we should give the socialists a chance to come to their senses here, so that they too can do something for the medium-sized enterprises and their relief and for the reduction of bureaucracy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i repeat my request. we are in favour of the debate. we are simply asking for a postponement of the vote. i must add, however, in the interests of fairness: i understand the pious wish of mr lehne, but democracy reigns in our group. mr lehne, i cannot guarantee you an outcome!
president of the european council. − mr president, i am delighted to have this opportunity to take part in a debate with you not only to report on the informal meeting of the heads of state and government of two weeks ago – it was, after all, an informal meeting, with no formal conclusions to report – but also to take this opportunity to meet with you early in my mandate. had i waited until the first formal opportunity to report on a european council taking place at the end of march, i would not have come before this parliament before the end of april, some five months after my designation as president of the european council. let me therefore take this opportunity to lay out how i see my role and function. i shall spend a few minutes on this so as not to have to return to this on future occasions. there has of course always been a presidency of the european council; not the same thing as the ‘president of europe’, as some media put it. so what has changed? three small things, but which will, together and over time, have the potential to make a significant difference. first is the element of continuity: past presidents changed every six months; that is, after every second or third meeting. there was little opportunity to develop a long-term strategy. our partners in third countries were bemused at having to meet a different head of government every time they had a summit with the european union. greater continuity is fundamental to building relationships and carrying out a serious task. second is the full-time nature of the job; previous presidents had to simultaneously manage their own national governments. this meant that, at best, they could only deal half-time with european affairs. by creating a full-time post dedicated to the running of the european council and its follow-up, including external representation, the european council now has a better chance to play its role within the european institutional system. third is the fact that heads of state and of government now choose who they want to hold this position rather than it happening haphazardly from an arbitrary rotation system. i hope this, too, augurs well for the support that the president can count on. these three changes are all pragmatic improvements to the previous institutional architecture but, taken together with the fact that the european council now becomes an institution in its own right, they give the european council a better chance of fulfilling its task under the treaties of ‘[defining] the general political directions and priorities [of the union]’. some commentators have seen a great deal more in this role; others have seen less. on the one hand, some consider the presidency of the european council to be a sort of président in the manner of an executive head of state, as in, for instance, france. others, on the other hand, see it as the mere chairmanship of the meeting of the heads of government. in reality it is neither. it is certainly not a president and not with executive powers in its own right. the incumbent must express the views of the collective heads of state and of government. on the other hand the role is not merely one of being a chairman, giving the floor to one or another member of the european council to speak during its meetings. the task of preparing and then following up its meetings, and representing the union externally – for instance, along with the president of the commission at the g20 summit – and the role as a bridge between the national capitals and institutions clearly go beyond the task of merely chairing meetings. the role of permanent president is to enhance a shared sense of direction: nothing more, nothing less. where are we going? how to deal with our neighbours? who are our main strategic partners in the world? where do we want to be in 10 or 20 year’s time? these are vital issues. as regards my relationship with the european parliament, the treaty is quite brief on this: it simply requires that i report to you ‘after […] meetings of the european council’. that means a minimum of four times a year, though in most years that is more likely to be five or six and may, in the future, rise to 10. it will not be long before many of you will be fed up with the sight of me! i will continue to multiply other usual contacts with members of parliament, such as the meetings i have begun with leaders of groups and the monthly meeting i have with the president of parliament. indeed, my role should not be confused with that of the president of the commission. mr barroso chairs an executive that is elected by and is accountable to the european parliament. it submits legislative and budgetary proposals to you, i do not do so. the commission president has an intimate day-to-day contact with the european parliament, not least working on those legislative and budgetary proposals. my task is, rather, to ensure that the heads of state and of government can collectively agree on an overall strategy for the european union, both as regards its internal development and in terms of its external relations. i have a weekly meeting with president barroso. we are both acutely aware of the need to avoid any conflicts of competence or misunderstandings as to who is responsible for what. public opinion and third countries may well find it difficult to grasp the difference between the president of the commission and the president of the european council; i am very confident that we are on the right track. in this context it is also important to remember that i am president of the european council and not of the council of ministers; these are two separate institutions. the ordinary council, which is the other branch of the legislature with the european parliament, will still be chaired by a presidency that continues to rotate every six months among the member states. only in the configuration of foreign affairs where it coordinates executive power does it have a permanent president in the form of catherine ashton, vice-president of the commission and high representative for foreign policy. i pause at this point to pay tribute to the work being done by catherine ashton. in facing up to multiple challenges in the field of foreign affairs and security and in preparing the external action service she deserves our support. it will be my privilege to work closely with her in representing the union externally. let me just say a few words about the european council itself. the first formal meeting under my chairmanship will take place at the end of next month. we did, however, have a useful informal gathering of heads of state and government earlier this month at the bibliothèque solvay, just a few hundred metres from here. whether it was because of the more intimate surroundings of the library or the physical proximity of parliament, our discussions were fruitful. as i said, i cannot report any formal conclusions to you from an informal meeting. at most i can share with you my own personal conclusions from the discussions which i have set out in a letter to the members of the european council and which i know has been circulated within parliament. my aim with this informal council was mainly to prepare our future deliberations on the issue of how to improve europe’s economic performance as we exit the immediate economic crisis. this involves looking at our targets and ambitions – and we have a very useful paper from commission president barroso on this – but also how to improve our governance of these issues. how we go about managing our integrated european economy – the world’s largest market – in order to improve our economic performance is one of the central questions facing the european union. our initial exchange of views on this involved looking at how we set targets, how we follow them up, how we evaluate results. it is in large part about coordinating the exercise of national competences whilst making full use of the european union competences and instruments available. it is therefore a task to which the european council is eminently suited. at the solvay meeting, all members of the european council agreed that we need better, more focused economic coordination in the union, both for major economic policy – certainly in the euro area – and for microeconomic policy. a lot of this is very technical, but let us just take the idea of bringing down the number of common economic objectives to concentrate on four or five. these objectives should be quantifiable and divisible in national set objectives; it makes no sense to have scoreboards on, say, 65 different sets of data. moreover, all members of the european council are willing to take more responsibility in a common european strategy for growth and jobs. such personal involvement is indispensable; we need to go from paper recommendations to real -life commitment. i was glad to find such a level of ambition around the table. whether you want to call it better coordination, better governance, or even a gouvernement économique, the key is the common commitment to success. we also had a quick discussion on how to better implement europe’s actions in the reconstruction of haiti; we want to take this discussion further with an eye to better implementing article 214 of the treaty on the coordination of humanitarian aid. a discussion on how europe should respond strategically to the copenhagen conference on climate change will be pursued at the next european council. unexpectedly, of course, there was a discussion on the situation in greece. i took it upon myself to ensure that this was handled in the european union’s institutional framework and not outside it, and that the agreement reached met with the approval of all 27 heads of state and government as well as the president of the commission and the president of the european central bank. this degree of consensus was a message about greece’s acceptance of its responsibility to cut its deficit in a credible way and of our solidarity with it if needed. i very much look forward to hearing your views on all these matters, not least on how we can face all the challenges facing our union. i can assure you that i have one overriding goal for the coming years; to ensure that our union is on track to be strong enough internally to maintain our own social model and externally to defend our interests and project our values. i think that all european institutions can and must work together for those goals. (applause)
president of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all congratulate president van rompuy on what was a very good informal european council for the first time under his chairmanship. after reaching agreement among all of us on an important statement on greece, we discussed the europe 2020 strategy – a strategy for sustainable growth and employment. i had the opportunity to focus on the substantive policy issues we are facing, on the challenges and on the lines which the commission will formally propose next wednesday. before the crisis, the european economy was making progress: we saw 18 million new jobs and a more dynamic business environment. however, these gains have been wiped out by the financial crisis and its impact on many of our areas of activity: a 4% fall in gdp in a single year, unemployment shooting up to 10%, a huge hit to our prosperity, a real threat to our societies. at the same time the task is getting tougher: we have an ageing population, a growing productivity gap with our competitors, and failings in education and research. however, we also have many strengths: we have the world’s biggest market economy; we have the single market; we have the euro area. all this has proved to be an important asset in the crisis. but today europe faces a very important choice; i would say a defining choice for future generations. hoping for a return of the good old days is no option. one option is limited change – the lowest common denominator which brings some reform and some growth. but we could never get back what we lost in the crisis. this option would result in a europe which is second class in the new global order. minimal changes, some kind of adaptations. i believe we can and must be more ambitious. we can aspire to an economic strategy that puts europe on the path to competitiveness and that can create millions of new jobs. but this cannot be done by half measures and incremental change. we need to instil a sense of urgency, a recognition that business as usual will not protect our european way of life and will not defend our social models. on the contrary. those social models will be put at risk if we do not adapt to a much more challenging global environment. this requires a joint effort. we need the member states; we need the european institutions; we need stakeholders and society at large; and we need specifically the active involvement and support of this parliament, the european parliament, for shaping this strategy and for communicating it to the people. next week the commission will set out the key elements of the strategy that it will formally propose to the european institutions. it will centre on three priorities: smart growth, inclusive growth, sustainable growth. first, the core driver of growth must be knowledge; knowledge and innovation that produces tomorrow’s ideas, tomorrow’s skills, tomorrow’s technologies. second, to keep in force our european model of society we need to deliver more jobs. our goal must be healthy, prosperous, secure societies, where everyone feels they can play their part. that means giving people jobs and skills and it means tackling the scourge of poverty head on. the problem of poverty is not only a national problem; it is a problem for which we need a common european response. our social market economy must be hardwired to seize the opportunities of the future. i am talking about sustainable growth, recognising the importance of tackling climate change, recognising the pressure on resources. with this i mean a competitive economy, deepening the internal market, creating better conditions for investment – especially for smes – a european economy able to hold its own in a globalised market place. these priorities are not unfamiliar. but the fact that we have not yet succeeded in realising these goals makes them more important, not less. where we need to make a radical change is not in our prescription of what the european economy needs, but in our approach on how to make it happen. what do we need in order to succeed? firstly the strategy must be comprehensive. we cannot have a pick-and-mix strategy allowing everyone to do the easy parts, the feel-good things, and leave the real challenges to the others. there are still many issues: when i think about completing the single market, about the quality of our taxation systems, about the way we spend money at a time of intense pressure on public finances, to name but a few. secondly, our strategy must engage all parts of our societies. we will not succeed in putting european society on the right track for the future if this comes at the cost of social conflict. that is why a proactive approach to creating jobs and addressing the scourge of poverty are essential. it is also why we have been wise to reform financial markets. we want a strong financial sector able to finance innovation and help businesses to grow: one which acknowledges its broader responsibilities to society and governments which came to its aid at the time of need; one which accepts that effective supervision at european level is necessary today. thirdly, we must not confuse having an overall vision for the european economy with the question of ‘who does what?’. it should not be a question of a debate on competences. what we have to see is the added value of a european approach. it is quite evident at a time of globalisation, when we need to discuss with america, with china, with russia, with others, that there is added value in a common approach; for instance in the g20, an initiative that was in fact launched by the european union during the french presidency by the president of france and myself, when we proposed to the american president to accept those summits. it is indeed necessary to recognise that we have greater influence if we act together. it makes no sense to recognise global interdependence and to reject european interdependence. that is why we need to act together. still, a lot of action will have to come at national level. of course there are national responsibilities which we expect to be addressed mainly by governments, but we also expect governments to commit sincerely to a european approach. the european approach is necessary, not to bring back powers in brussels – this is not our intention at all – but to help the indispensable reforms in our societies so that they can bring more prosperity, more well-being to our citizens. we will only succeed if we are ready to work together, not against each other, and therefore we need credible ownership at all levels. we need strong and true coordination in the economic field. the lisbon treaty gives us these instruments and we will use them. in this european council i saw awareness of this problem. i can compare the discussions this time with the discussions five years ago when we were discussing the lisbon strategy. let me tell you very frankly and very openly that i saw among heads of state and government much more awareness of the need to act together and also of the external constraints on the european economy. i sincerely hope that this time narrow national interests will not again resist the need for closer coordination and an effective system of european governance. we also need significant european union level flagship measures to typify what we are trying to achieve: some concrete plans. we are going to present some of them: projects like an innovation plan, a new skills programme, a proper industrial policy, a digital agenda, green technologies, and a specific plan or action against poverty; projects that have a value, an impact in themselves; projects that show why europe provides part of the solution and which show that the european union is not just talking, it is acting. let me finish by calling upon you, the european parliament, to show your strong support for these projects as legislator, as budgetary authority and as champion of european action in every corner of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i hope the british nursery is good enough to listen to this again. (interruption of the debate) i should have started with eu 2020, but i'm starting with greece, partly because of the interference of the right wing of the house. i believe that the least helpful thing in the debate on the situation in greece and the prospects for greece is an anti-greek, nationalist or anti-european attitude. in my opinion, mistakes are becoming clear in greece now - more often in the crisis than in good times - which have been made for a long time. i would like to emphasize a question from mr verhofstadt: if we do not want to see an anti-european development, we must also talk about who in brussels is responsible for the fact that things could be hidden in greece for so many years - probably during the whole period of preparation for monetary union. i believe, mr barroso, that you have a crucial responsibility here. it is precisely this that you must uncover, because so far we have only sensed and seen the tip of the iceberg of responsibility, but not the system of irresponsibility underneath. secondly, a lot of things have to change in greece too. this is actually more of a friendly confrontation that needs to be fought with the greeks within the eurozone. if this help is needed - which i see coming - if european solidarity has to be put to the test again - and i do not want to rule this out at this point - then the greeks really have to change something. there's this overburdened public sector. if i believe the greeks i have spoken to, 25% of greek workers are employed in the public sector, and that is not even good. there is a real need for reform. but it's not just the spending side that needs to be changed, because the revenue side is obviously completely screwed up. i think mr papandreou is right in his idea of publishing the tax returns of those who earn very well in greece. you don't have to buy cds in switzerland, you can do it differently. this will very quickly show that the revenue side of the situation in greece can also be considerably improved if tax evasion is finally avoided and if people who live in greece in luxury pay a decent amount of tax. my colleague sven giegold will probably say more about the eurobonds later. i would like to say something about the eu 2020 strategy: mr barroso, you have not in any way addressed the failures of the lisbon strategy. i believe that the lack of evaluation of the lisbon strategy is a very bad sign of the success or possible success of the new strategy. it is not bad in principle as an integrated strategy, but ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in times of trouble, a friend is known. there are 27 governments in the european union, each in its own way, trying to save its own banks and big industries. this means more debt for each individual country and drastic savings for the people. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals. with the government bailouts for the banks, it is now precisely the banks that are speculating against the state budgets. the banks are already there, ahead of the states. hypo real estate and commerzbank, which were bailed out by germany with billions of dollars of state money, are at the forefront of the overpriced greek government bond business. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to make use of the resources available to it. (interruption of the debate) i do not like to argue with negative examples in german, mr president. but in germany, a ruling party is constantly clamoring for tax relief, while at the same time calling on the greek government to collect more taxes. but who will have to pay for it? i fear, especially those who are already barely making ends meet on their wages. is it not the former world export champion germany which has for years decoupled wage developments from productivity, leading to social dumping? in ancient greek theater, crisis means the opportunity, yes, the challenge of a turning point. to bring about such a turning point, we must finally demand a legal minimum wage! equal work in the same place must be paid equally. we need a community harmonization of taxation, but above all we need a real community regulation and control of financial markets and a really community coordinated economic and financial policy based on solidarity, which must have binding social and environmental objectives!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i am very disappointed in you, mr president buzek. it is unacceptable that a group leader in this parliament should not criticise the president of the council politically but call him a 'wet rag'. (applause from the centre) i expect you, mr president, to respond to this with a call for order. i cannot allow this man to trample on the dignity of this house. i would also like to say to joseph daul: the uk is not about leaving the eu. it is perhaps better that mr farage should resign if he dislikes the european union and the european parliament so much. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if strategy 2020 is to be successful, it must be implemented - unlike the lisbon strategy! and contrary to what the previous speakers have said, it is not that the objectives were wrong, but above all that the member states did not comply with their obligations, with the rules. and the commission was too timid, mr barroso! it was too timid in implementing, in advocating reforms, in enforcing its own strategy. you now have a new commission for your second term by a large majority. i hope you will improve all that, that you will restore momentum in europe, that you will promote technologies, that we will not just talk about redistribution, but that we will measure ourselves against the other economic regions of the world. and these regions do not ask whether europeans are coming together or whether they are implementing new redistribution programmes. they have their own dynamic. and we must respond to this dynamic! this is the task that this strategy must convey. so far, only drafts have been submitted, and i hope that they will be improved, because the drafts submitted have a sort of 'going forward' mentality. there are no new approaches! the new president of the council has not really brought out anything new from the council either. but we need that strategy to keep up! new framework conditions must be defined. we need to think about the climate goals of the past. we must promote technology and not block it further. the commission, as a collegiate body, is not called upon to represent the interests of individual commissioners, but to take the lead in europe! you can be sure that we are fully on your side. only then will strategy 2020 succeed - without the despondency of governments and the insistence that someone else should pay for what the respective partner in europe does not do!
i have to say, madam president, it's easy to have nice goals. everyone does this at the beginning of each year, everyone has beautiful goals, but whether this remains a dream, a sermon or becomes an agenda depends on whether you answer the questions who, what, how, how much and when. we will have to see this in the european agenda 2020. i think mr daul has made the point very clearly at the beginning of this debate. the question is: are we prepared to renounce national sovereignty in the field of economic policy, or are we prepared to renounce the cohesion of the union, to renounce the euro, to renounce what we have built up over decades? that's how dramatic the alternative is. i would have been glad to have heard such clear words from the representative of the cdu, because it is well known that it is the conservatives in germany who have so often stood in the way of this. i would like, madam president, mr president of the council and mr president of the commission, not only for the president of the council to say with calm confidence that the council is going to give directives here, but also for the commission, together with parliament, to take up the task of working actively and energetically on these directives for a common european economic governance, which is not just a handshake between mrs merkel and mr sarkozy, but a serious effort to lead europe economically together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the crisis in the european economy is so deep that we really have to expect concrete proposals in this situation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european parliament has called for european economic governance in a number of ways. i would like to ask you to propose a way of sharing the risks of the high level of debt so that greece and others are not crushed under the burden of interest rates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. it is not only the deficit countries that need to be punished and changed, but also the countries with excessive surpluses. we need european statistics that are independent and effective work against tax competition and tax competition. such proposals have been made in parliament. now it's your turn to finally put things on the table.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to make two points very specifically. firstly, do we already have a promising eu 2020 strategy? no, we haven't got one yet! and i'll tell you why. if you say in the commission and the member states that we will do the rapid fiscal consolidation first and then we will deal with the economy and employment, that is a bill that will not be paid. if you do not believe us, read yesterday's statement from the international monetary fund: private demand has not yet taken off. we are concerned about public investment. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. secondly, do we have a response to the debt crisis of the countries most under pressure? no, we don't have an answer yet! countries have made mistakes, more than one country. but if you read the data carefully and listen to the analysts, you know that at least half of the greek surcharges are due to the speculators - the speculators that you in the commission did not want to regulate for five years, the hedge funds. now we're finally doing it. what does that mean in practice? we need a european monetary fund, a fund to help these countries. we must be able to make reasonable loans not only outside the euro zone, but also within it, against conditions. but we must make european policy to solve the crisis, and we must do it now!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for its 60th anniversary in 2005, the united nations created two new structures: the peace building commission and the human rights council. while the peace building commission is doing its work relatively effectively and has largely met expectations, the same cannot be said of the human rights council, even if it is the most willing. it was said here - and it was said in the resolution - that a revision, a reform, was more than necessary. the work of the human rights council is too one-sided - colleagues have pointed out - and israel, for example, is being treated one-sidedly. i am unhappy, frankly, that the presidency has singled out the goldstone report as the single major issue here - certainly a topic worth discussing, but not the focus. if mr howitt says that iran's candidacy should be successful and that it would be the death knell for the human rights council, then i want to know what that means, and i want our member states to adopt a united position, including the european external action service. i believe that if this continues, we must seriously consider putting the focus of our human rights work in the united nations back into the third committee. at least it has universal representation and greater legitimacy.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for the opportunity to speak on this question of the fact-finding mission, a un-sponsored mission, on the gaza conflict, which took place between late 2008 and early 2009 and is known as the 'goldstone report'. the united nations took note of the statement by its secretary-general, ban ki-moon, to the security council on 21 january 2009, in which he reported on his impressions following a visit to gaza and southern israel immediately after the end of hostilities. and, moreover, the publication of the report referred to earlier in some of the speeches which have taken place on the previous item on the agenda, the goldstone report, which was made in mid-september last year, was also discussed at the twelfth session of the human rights council, between 14 september and 2 october. the european union has, from the very beginning of this conflict, insisted that the parties fully respect human rights and fulfil their obligations under international humanitarian law. the european union made it clear that it would closely monitor investigations into allegations and human rights violations. in geneva, the swedish presidency of the council set out the position of the european union as follows: firstly, the european union considers the report to be serious, containing allegations of serious violations of international humanitarian law, including deliberate attacks against civilians; and secondly, the european union stresses the importance of proper and credible investigations into possible violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law by the parties to the conflict, in accordance with international standards, noting in this regard that the mission addresses its recommendations to both the israeli and palestinian sides. the european union confirmed its constructive stance on the goldstone report when it stressed, at the un security council debate on 27 january just a month ago, the importance of proper and credible investigations into possible violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law. and i can inform you that then, on february 4, 2010, a few days ago, the secretary-general of the united nations released a report on the implementation of the goldstone resolution of the united nations general assembly. the secretary-general forwarded the replies from israel, the occupied palestinian territories and switzerland and in his comments indicated that the processes initiated by these three parties were ongoing and that he could not comment on the implementation of the resolution by the parties concerned. it remains to be seen how this issue will be addressed in the united nations general assembly. the priority of the spanish presidency in this respect is to reach consensus on the union's position on the draft resolution which the palestinian authorities wish to present to the united nations general assembly at this time. we have a twofold objective: firstly, that the resolution can be adopted by consensus, and, if that is not the case, that the european union's position on this issue should be as integrated as possible. in any event, i would reiterate that the council presidency supports what the goldstone report has called for, namely the development of credible and independent investigations by the parties.
member of the commission. − mr president, i just want to endorse what has been said by the spanish presidency. although the eu has not endorsed all the recommendations, it made it clear that it takes the goldstone report very seriously. it has invited all parties of the conflict to launch investigations into alleged violations – caused by parties of the conflict – of international humanitarian law and international human rights law. this investigation should be in accordance with international standards. so far the steps taken by israel, the palestinian authorities and hamas fall short of providing tangible results, and yet accountability must be established. therefore, the eu keeps repeating our key message that the parties to the conflict make substantial efforts in conducting independent and credible investigations into the alleged violations. since this directly concerns my responsibilities, it is worth recalling that the commission provides substantial funding to humanitarian organisations whose projects aim to provide vital assistance and protection to palestinian civilians. the eu will strive to ensure that the appropriate follow-up is given at the human rights council meeting in march and to engage at an early stage in the preparation of a consensual resolution. in this context i would like to state here that on 18 february the palestinian delegation tabled a draft general assembly resolution further to the united nations’ secretary-general’s report as a follow-up to the goldstone report. the palestinian side indicated that it is their intention to seek general assembly action on the resolution on friday 26 february, to reiterate the main points of the general assembly resolution 64/10 of 5 november 2009 and to request the united nations’ secretary-general to report again in five months. as we sit in this room, member states and the commission are in intensive consultations on this issue with the aim of reaching a common position on this resolution. may i – very much in support of the spanish presidency – end up with the point that it is important to seek a common eu position and avoid the previous three-way split.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that a credible investigation of violations of international humanitarian law is important and that we should be guided by it. the conclusion must be reviewed, but this applies equally to both parties, including those who engage in asymmetric warfare by firing on sderot and other cities from a densely populated area, thus determining the battlefield. this will be examined in a fair manner and no one-sided conclusions will be drawn from it. all of this also shows that in the middle east, as in other similar regions, only peaceful solutions will be effective in the long term. because until a peaceful solution and a lasting understanding are found, we will never solve these problems. the security aspects of the state of israel must also be taken into account and taken seriously in such a case, also in view of the fact that new missiles are being developed here which are problematic. i would also like to remind you that it is right to call for an international inquiry, but not everything can be examined in the context of the goldstone report. the report is to be devoted to the occupied territories only. it was pointed out that in the human rights council not a single member state of the european union agreed to the report. some abstained, others voted against and others - such as the united kingdom and france - refused to take part in the vote at all. we should take this into account, because the resolution was supported by 'representatives of human rights and democracy' such as cuba, nigeria and china. we should take this into account when we assess this question. we should be advocating human rights, but not on the basis of this report to make politics against one side.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that the european parliament has succeeded in producing a relatively broadly supported resolution on the present goldstone report without simply shifting the conflict in the middle east to brussels. if we want to preserve the chance of lasting peace, we must appeal to the unity of all parties involved, rather than emphasizing the divisive, as some here do. the first is the application of international law, in particular human rights worldwide. but just as the parties to the conflict must allow and encourage an independent inquiry, so the international community must prevent a unilateral condemnation. we must therefore make it clear that a one-sided demonization of israel is inappropriate, not only in this debate but in general. those forces which are working to question the legitimacy of the state of israel must be given a clear rejection by us europeans. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the west, but must be able to take action to help the palestinians. that is why it must be made clear here and today that we cannot accept the obstruction of ngos in israel by government officials like foreign minister lieberman. this policy is harmful to the people of israel and thus to peace in the middle east.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the right of israel to exist, the protection of its population, the pursuit of the most intensive cooperation possible with israel are for me, as a german and as a leftist, a matter of course for political action. i cannot accept that for years now 1.5 million palestinians have been held hostage in the world's largest open-air prison by a failed policy. when you realize that more than 44% of children under 14 live in gaza, you understand the dangerous mortgage this policy represents for the future of the region. obviously, the 2008 war and the policy of human-rights denial towards the civilian population are to be forgotten. we therefore call for clarification and for redress. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: europe must not look the other way any longer! the implementation of the goldstone report must therefore remain the eu's responsibility, also in the un general assembly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. both sides have so far failed to meet un demands for a credible and independent investigation into the allegations in the goldstone report. this is regrettable, especially on the israeli side. for as controversial as the goldstone report is, any state which calls itself a democratic state of law has an obligation to subject such serious allegations to independent investigation. an internal military review by the israeli army, which is itself under suspicion, is not sufficient. if the eu is serious about its own principles of respect for human rights and international law, it must increase pressure on both sides, including in its bilateral relations, and insist on the required clarification of possible violations of international and humanitarian law in accordance with the rule of law. war crimes must be punished under international law, as has been said many times here. the investigation must be carried out by the prosecutor of the international criminal court, if necessary, in accordance with article 12 (3) of the rome statute. the european union has a duty to help the palestinians, and to help the palestinians themselves.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the goldstone report describes human rights abuses on both sides. more than 1,400 casualties in gaza are clearly too many. however, i am also sure that without the missile attacks on israel, there would have been no military response. we have heard during a visit by the israeli delegation that it is not easy in israel to work out the military action. the central charge in the goldstone report that israel has deliberately, deliberately and continuously attacked the civilian population is not tenable. the extent to which hamas has abused the civilian population as a shield remains poorly investigated. after all, the report mentions that the israeli army has warned through phone calls and leaflets. there was no similar hamas approach to the rocket attacks on israel. however, we must also ask whether the un in gaza itself has done enough to prevent, for example, hamas rockets from being fired from close to un facilities. i do not believe that the goldstone report is a basis for further terrorist attacks on israel, it does not justify it. he may not be able to help us anymore. but it is clear that we must demand human rights here in the european parliament and call on both sides to return to the peace process.
acting president of the council. - mrs svensson, i am very grateful to you for your question, because you know that the spanish presidency of the council of the european union has gender equality as one of its key, central, priority elements, and has a series of objectives that express that idea of equality in terms of the importance of the non-discrimination directive, and also in relation to something you have mentioned, which is the fight against gender violence and the importance of having a protection order for victims of gender violence. in this respect, i am very pleased to see commissioner viviane reding, who is responsible for carrying out all matters relating to equality between women and men from the point of view of justice. i would also like to begin by saying that i apologize for the absence of the minister for equality of the spanish government, who has just attended the vote in the spanish senate on the reform of the abortion law, which, by the way, went well, since it was adopted this afternoon, at this very moment, in the spanish parliament. the european union has always approved and has always stood behind the union, the united nations in the field of gender equality. the swedish presidency drew up the beijing 15 report, which the spanish presidency will be presenting at the 54th session of the commission on the status of women, and it must be said that although much progress has been made in this respect, much remains to be done. in this connection, the presidency has stressed, for example, the need to improve data and to make better use of the indicators we have developed in the context of the beijing platform. twelve indicators, as you know, have been developed within the european union to monitor, to assess, to evaluate effective gender equality, although in some cases we have not yet succeeded in designing them; for example, the issue of human rights, the media, the environment. i would point out that the spanish presidency is going to hold a technical meeting in may to discuss women and the media and stereotypes; as a media issue, it is also something that falls within the remit of commissioner viviane reding. i would like to conclude by pointing out that there is a very important issue at the moment, as everyone knows, which is the economic crisis and which, in addition to the damage it causes, can also be an obstacle to progress in equality between women and men. however, it is also true that, paradoxically, gender equality can help us to overcome the crisis, to combat it: precisely through gender equality and equal access to employment for women compared to men. and i am referring very specifically to the europe 2020 strategy. the union institutions have made it clear that they want the europe 2020 strategy to have a cross-cutting gender equality dimension, that the issue of equality between men and women should also be included in that strategy. in last year's report, the european parliament called on the council and the commission to include a gender mainstreaming chapter in the 2020 strategy. the epsco council of 30 november last year, the epsco informal council which just took place in barcelona, also indicated that the member states and the commission should work to ensure that, within their respective competences, the gender dimension can be consolidated in the 2020 strategy, taking into account all relevant policy areas. i am therefore sure that this, together with the commission's work plan, a major work plan which has always been a fundamental instrument for guiding this strategy, will lead to this aspect being included in the document which the european commission has promised us for 3 march on strategy 2020 (president van rompuy and commission president josé manuel barroso have just spoken about this today). we must continue to work, we must continue to push forward gender equality policies. it is not just a question of fairness, but also of consistency with the spirit of the european union, so that it remains a benchmark in the world for equality between women and men.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i am honoured that my first speech during question time in parliament is a response to questions on women. as commissioner for fundamental rights, i believe that the issue of fundamental rights linked to equal treatment between men and women is one of the most important and one of the oldest. i am also very moved to recall that more than 15 years ago, as a young luxembourg parliamentarian, i prepared the beijing platform in luxembourg. we are here in the european parliament to prepare the follow-up to the beijing platform. a loop is closed. i do not need to stress this: as you know, equality between men and women is one of the fundamental values of the european union and you can count on the commission's unwavering commitment to this. i will present, during the year, a new commission strategy on gender equality which will follow on from the current roadmap for equality 2006-2010. in a few days' time, when the 54th commission on the status of women at the united nations will begin its work, which will mark the 15th anniversary of beijing, the european parliament will send a very large delegation. i will be there with the president of the council and it will be a first. we shall both be speaking in plenary. i think that's a very strong symbol too. it will also be time to measure, at international level, the progress made in the 12 areas of action set out in beijing, but also to see what inequalities persist, because, although there have been successes, there are still challenges to be met. and i must say that the european union is and will remain an important supporter of the work of the united nations, also with regard to the reform of the institutional mechanisms under way, the creation of this gender entity within the united nations. the european union also represents a powerful support in development, particularly in the context of the millennium development goals, which ensure that 50% of the world's citizens have a say in development. we know very well that without the contribution of women, there will be no development. that is why equal treatment between men and women is a horizontal policy in the commission, pursued not only by the commissioner responsible for the subject, but also by the other commissioners in their areas of responsibility, namely those areas which concern policies within the european union as well as its external policies and, in particular, its development cooperation policies. we all know that the establishment of the beijing platform for action was a major step forward. it was as a result of this adoption that the transversal integration of the gender dimension became widespread throughout the european union. that was the signal that had been sent from beijing at the time. and this impact has been truly remarkable given that in all our member states our equality policies are no longer limited to specific actions but are now integrated into all relevant policies. the beijing platform for action also allowed progress on equality to be monitored on the basis of indicators developed by the council in most policy areas. twelve actions, nine indicators, and you're in. we are very proud of the results, but there are still three indicators to be created, and i think the council has committed itself to these by adopting conclusions to move forward, to develop these missing indicators. fifteenth anniversary of the beijing platform for action the swedish presidency took stock of the european union's equality record. the council has adopted conclusions and parliament will present these documents, which will of course also find their place in all the other policies that the european union will develop. both the president and the commissioner have just spoken about europe 2020. well, it is only natural that in this system, which will set europe's recovery in motion, women should play a leading role, especially at a time when the number of workers is shrinking more and more. in fact, we have no choice: we need women to drive economic development. it's not even just a question of equality anymore, it's a question of economic policy altogether. so we have no choice in the matter. we need women if we are to get europe out of its difficulties and these new indicators will of course help us in that direction. in the framework of the high level group, we have drawn up a work programme which will make it possible to monitor existing indicators and to create indicators which are still to be put in place. naturally, we will be helped in this task by the european institute for gender equality, which will be permanently established in vilnius next week - and this is also a symbol, precisely at the time when the meeting in new york is taking place. madam president, i will come to your house as soon as i return from new york to discuss the commission's strategy on equality. we'll do it together. we're going to do this for 50 percent of our population, for 50 percent of our citizens, and we're going to get it done.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the world conference on women next week in new york will give us the opportunity to put gender equality in the focus of society worldwide. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the call for equality, development and peace made at the world conference on women in beijing on 15 june 1995 is still a concrete description of the objectives, including in europe. we're on our way, with the target in sight. but we also recognize that the road is not easy, that there are traffic jams, stops and sometimes one-way streets. we must constantly redefine the path, keeping our eyes on the goal. an old german proverb says: there are many roads to rome. i therefore invite all of us to work together more closely in the search for the right common path. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. my group is giving the floor to the decision-making process and that is why, mrs svensson, we want the separate vote. equality has to be in people's heads. it takes sensitivity and it takes persuasion. in her resolution, mrs svensson has pointed to the many open wounds. there are still many areas to be worked on, and they are: no stereotypes, equal pay for equal work, poverty for women, violence against women, the ageing society, which affects women in particular. these are the very, very important questions we want to put to the house in this resolution. wills alone do little to help. the list of the many resolutions, strategies and pacts in mrs svensson's report takes up two pages. my group is very keen that whenever equality is discussed, men and women should be called 'equal', so to speak, and we hope that the follow-up conference in beijing will also take us one step further towards greater equality.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not, god knows, a good occasion for this debate. madeira has been struck by an incredible natural disaster, and our sympathies go out to the families affected. in this situation, the european union must provide support. the solidarity of the whole european union is needed here, and i can only repeat: i would like to ask the commission to activate the solidarity fund as soon as possible in order to be able to provide assistance. i would like to say to the council: please ensure that the reform of the solidarity fund, which parliament adopted two years ago, is finally implemented, because it will make it possible to provide aid to the regions concerned more quickly. we must also look ahead. madeira has received a lot of structural fund funding in recent years and will continue to receive structural fund funding in the coming years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of natural disasters. we must, as the european union, implement this in the regions and therefore in madeira.
in writing. i congratulate mr manka on his successful renegotiation in the face of the very tight budgetary framework for 2010. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. unfortunately, for procedural reasons, this cannot be voted on separately, as this increase in the secretarial allowance for members decided by the bureau of parliament from may 2010 is inappropriate in times of financial crisis. while parliament as a whole will need more capacity for legislative work under the recently entered into force lisbon treaty, there is no evidence that meps actually need more staff following the introduction of the statute for assistants at the beginning of the current parliamentary term. the 'purchasing power' of the additional funds varies widely between eu member states and should also be taken into account in a report on the results of the introduction of the new rules for members' staff which is still to be drawn up. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of posts in the council of ministers by a further two, and to increase the number of posts in the council of ministers by a further two. the fdp will therefore abstain from voting in the ep.
mr president, commissioner damanaki, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a warm welcome to all the fishermen in the room! today's vote is a milestone for the european parliament. for the first time since the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, we are giving our opinion on the reform of the common fisheries policy. we have a lot of power in the next few years, but we also have a lot of responsibility. the report is acceptable and i thank mrs patrão neves and mrs josefa andrés barea for the good work they have done. we have succeeded in incorporating important social democratic concerns into the report. this includes targeted support for small-scale fisheries. the people concerned are now involved in the decision-making process. small family farms must be given special support. their presence in coastal regions not only creates jobs but also contributes to the tourist attractiveness of many regions. some parts of the report still need to be improved. we have tabled amendments to that effect. we social democrats want to make it clear that one of the central problems is the still existing overcapacity. it is also a fact that ecological sustainability is the basic condition for the economic survival of fishermen in the first place. so ecology has to be a priority. a third important point is the external dimension of the cfp and the partnership agreements with third countries. we are asking for the deletion of paragraph 121 which emphasizes the interests of european fisheries over the fee. we should behave as if we were at home outside european waters, promoting sustainability, human rights and democracy worldwide and ensuring that the proceeds of partnership agreements do not go to the coffers of corrupt dictatorships.finally, a fundamental point: european fisheries policy is a hot potato, because there are many tangible national interests. it is certainly no secret that these have led to heated debates in the groups in recent weeks. we are all fortunate to have found good compromises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should leave the trifling matters of national ambition to the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is only one step on the long road to reform of the common fisheries policy. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report and our coordinator for the efficient work. i am in favour of a fundamental reform of the common fisheries policy. but if the courage is lacking, it is important to me that the principle of relative stability be preserved. i would also like to draw attention to the great problem of the ravenous cormorant and to the management plan already requested by parliament. the fisheries sector is of fundamental economic and cultural importance to our coastal regions. that is why i am particularly concerned about the balance between economy and ecology in the forthcoming reform of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. first of all, commissioner damanaki, good luck and good cooperation! i would also like to thank mrs patrãu neves. she did an excellent job negotiating. it is important that the small fishing communities should also be represented here. for germany - as has already been mentioned - relative stability plays a very important role. of course, we all believe that we must protect and maintain fish stocks at a sustainable level so that they can continue to support our fishermen in the future. but we must not only discuss ecological and economic aspects, but we must also discuss the excessive protection of species, as has already been mentioned, for example, when it comes to cormorants and seals. europe has thousands of kilometres of coastline and traditional artisanal fishing is found in many areas. it is a source of livelihood for families who need this fishery. tourism also plays a very important role. all of this should be taken into account. the green paper is, i think, a very good solution to continue with the commission ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the collision of the two suburban trains in brussels, which led to this terrible accident, has affected us very much. our thoughts are with the families, relatives and friends of the victims. after such disasters, people often quickly look for someone to blame. the european union and its commission and the safety provisions we have jointly introduced in our directive 2004/49 cannot do this. on the other hand, of course, there is always the big question: should we tighten up the safety regulations further? the investigation into this train accident is not yet complete, and therefore we cannot yet evaluate clear results. the big question is, could this catastrophe have been avoided? human failure is not excluded, nor is technical failure, and therefore both play a role in railway and train safety. all railway operators, whether public or private, are obliged to ensure this safety. the national railway agencies must then check whether the relevant safety rules are being complied with. i do not want to give any instructions from the german point of view on this situation, but i would just like to say that we have tried to implement this directive in full in germany. where human failure is possible, technical systems must always intervene. i remember the dead man's knob, which, after one minute of inactivity, initiates forced braking. if a red stop sign is passed, an automatic braking action is initiated. such systems must exist. the european train control system for the railways must be implemented so that outside influence can also be exercised on such matters. we will jointly carry out the necessary evaluations in the committee on transport and draw conclusions also on the safety provisions.
the commission has already done so. this terrible accident involved two locomotives operated by sncb, the national railway company, on a state-owned network. in belgium there is no competition for passenger trains. that is why this has nothing to do with competition, with opening up the networks! it's about the lack of safety requirements! mr grosch has pointed out that for more than twenty years there has been a technique which automatically stops a train when it crosses a red light. the question is, why wasn't this installed? it's got nothing to do with ertms either. i was a reporter for ertms. this is a vision for the future, but it has not relieved any member state of the responsibility to put in place safeguards which are already available at national level. this is a national task. we must therefore ask: why has belgium not invested in this security for twenty years? if you had not built a mile or two of motorway, you would have had double and triple the money to install these safety devices and prevent this disaster! it wasn't the first time a signal had been run over at red, it was just the first time it had led to such a terrible accident.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not if my oral amendment is accepted, we shall not need a separate vote. it is:calls on the commission to align closely the national indicative programme 2011-13 with the association agenda. the original text, as it is now, is the other way round, and that is factually incorrect.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not this is just a factual correction. the way it's worded now, it's correct. the reference is not in the original text. i don't need to read it to you, you have the application in writing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to ask orally for a separate vote on paragraph 10 on the passage: 'but considers that the inclusion of this concept in the protocol on additional standards on racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and all forms of discrimination is not appropriate'. the second part of the report, which i am referring to, is a report on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union, which is a very important one. that is why we should have the possibility of voting separately on this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask for a separate vote on this, on the deletion of a few words in the last sentence, namely the words 'in the eu's view'. the text would then read: calls for the recommendations and related comments to be included in the eu's dialogue with both sides and in multilateral fora. the following is deleted: in the eu's views. i ask for a separate vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a functioning infrastructure in the european union is crucial for a proper development of prosperity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. for this reason alone, it is essential that the european parliament not only participate in this debate but also take part in it. i therefore call on the commission to abandon its policy of blockade and to allow parliament to take part in the decision-making process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would also like to say on behalf of a section of the epp and in particular my colleague elmar brok that we are shocked that the house has today rejected the amendment which would have included christian and other religious minorities in this report. i find it really shameful that we keep speaking out on human rights issues, but we don't think that sections of the population who are persecuted because of their religious background are worthy of protection. i am very sorry that we were unable to adopt the amendment today on a subject which is very important for the future of the world. if we fail to protect minorities for whatever reason, then we have no right to represent the european parliament as the stronghold of human rights, of fundamental rights and of this struggle throughout the world. i voted against it because you cannot exclude religious minorities!
in writing. − following the european parliament's resolution of 17 december 2009 on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, the proposed amending budget for the european parliament was voted on today following recalculations by the parliament's administration. the fdp in the european parliament abstained because one point in the amendment in question is not compatible with our convictions. the fdp had already opposed the increase of the secretarial allowance by eur 1500 during the discussions in the parliament's bureau. the secretariat allowance is used to pay the members' staff. the fdp's argument that more money is needed because of the extra work that will be required of meps with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty is not valid, as there is no experience. while parliament as a whole will need more capacity for legislative work as a result of the recently entered into force treaty of lisbon, there is no evidence yet that members actually need more staff following the introduction of the statute for assistants at the beginning of the current parliamentary term. in addition, there is a risk that further demands, salary increases or an expansion of office capacity will follow. the fdp abstained from the ep in this context.
in writing. − following the european parliament's resolution of 17 december 2009 on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, the proposed amending budget for the european parliament was voted on today following recalculations by the parliament's administration. the fdp in the european parliament abstained because one point in the amendment in question is not compatible with our convictions. the fdp had already opposed the increase of the secretarial allowance by eur 1500 during the discussions in the parliament's bureau. the secretariat allowance is used to pay the members' staff. the fdp's argument that more money is needed because of the extra work that will be required of meps with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty is not valid, as there is no experience. while parliament as a whole will need more capacity for legislative work under the recently entered into force lisbon treaty, there is no evidence yet that members actually need more staff following the introduction of the statute for assistants at the beginning of the current parliamentary term. in addition, there is a risk that further demands, salary increases or an expansion of office capacity will follow. the fdp abstained in the ep vote against this background.
in writing. − the greens/efa group gives conditional support to an increase in the secretarial assistance allowance at this stage of the procedure. for our group, the evaluation of the use of the secretarial allowance as asked for in the manka report is crucial. this evaluation should come in time for a decision by the budgetary authority on the corresponding amending budget later in spring. the group may reconsider its support for the increase in the assistants’ allowance in view of the outcome of this evaluation and discussions within our group.
in writing. - the german members of the alde group voted differently from the group on two points. firstly, there was the green group's amendment no 3. the fdp members voted against this because a radical decentralisation of fisheries policy, as called for in the motion, with the transfer of power and responsibility to the member states and local decision-makers is incompatible with the common european fisheries policy. the aim is to find jointly future-oriented solutions at eu level. amendment no 33 was supported by the fdp members because it supports the principle of relative stability, which is important for germans. the question is the basis for the distribution of quotas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have asked once again to put the question of the approval of the genetically modified amflora potato on the agenda for a number of reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the opposite is true. i think it is a scandal that so soon after the commission took office the commissioner for health, in approving the potato, has explicitly ignored the concerns of the world health organisation. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, and has been involved in the preparation of the european parliament's annual report on fraud. it was agreed that a different, more careful procedure for approval should be developed. where is this procedure? the majority of citizens are against these genetically modified organisms, and we have an obligation to debate this week the question of authorization and the offensive that may still be coming against us. (the president cut the speaker off) i would then like to ask for a roll-call vote on this vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i share the concerns of mrs harms and we are witnessing an extremely controversial debate on this subject in many member states. i therefore said last week at the conference of presidents, and i will repeat it now: it is not useful to have a quick debate without a resolution, which then backfires. it is much more sensible to instruct the committee responsible to appoint a rapporteur who should deal with the procedure but also with the technology of the approval procedures. the commission's approval is subject to an eight-year period. eight years of work on this subject! the commission's decision was taken on the basis of european law, which was adopted by majority vote. the question we now have to consider is whether decisions of such a scale should not be subject to a right of withdrawal by parliament and whether there is not a possibility that parliament may eventually withdraw such a far-reaching decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that's much better than a quick-fire debate. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. a society in which men and women do not have equal rights to work and live cannot be a democratic and humane society. the basic requirement for justice in society is that it be granted completely independently of the sex of the person. this is a matter of course for us men, but not for women - even in central european societies - by far. this is most clearly expressed in one of the biggest scandals which, in my opinion, must be abolished as soon as possible. we as a parliament could make a good contribution to this. how can a society claim to be an equal society when men and women are paid differently for equal work in the same place? nowhere is discrimination against women more uncommented in this society than in the workplace, where women, sometimes under much more drastic living conditions, do the same work as men and are paid 30% or 40% less. the eu must put an end to this disgrace! if there is a message to be given on this international women's day here in europe, it is equal pay for equal work in the same place, for men and women equally. this is a central demand of social justice! (applause from the centre) we have noted the commission's efforts. we see that today the charter for women's rights is to be launched. that is good and we welcome that. we are a little disappointed, however, and i would ask you to take this to mrs reading and mr barroso. we would have been happy if this initiative had not been limited to a formal declaration, but had been accompanied by the promise that was given initially, namely that parliament would be involved, that civil society representatives would have to be involved, and that this promise would have been kept. well, that didn't happen. you can make up for that. but we would be grateful if it were not just a formal declaration but that the institutions worked together to help put an end to the one example i have just given. my colleague, mrs wortmann-kool, has given other examples. on international women's day, however, we europeans must say one thing in common: we have not yet achieved equality on our continent, but the dramatic injustice against women in other parts of the world - from genital mutilation to forced veiling - all these fundamental rights that are denied to women and, above all, to girls worldwide, must not be our concern only on 8 march. i would also like to thank the human rights politicians in this house. every thursday afternoon in strasbourg, there is a debate here, among other things, on human rights violations against women. these debates - and this should be said on international women's day - should have at least been given the presence that we have now in the plenary on thursday afternoon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr commissioner, welcome to the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to compliment the rapporteur on her excellent work. the document covers many areas. in recent years we have seen an increase in the number of pets and of course the desire to take these animals on trips. this is right, and it should be, because it is a great way to make a living when you can take your pet with you. that is why we must have rules in europe to prevent the spread of animal diseases. and we have them. we have very good rules in directive 998/2003, and we will have the european vaccination card from 2011 which will document exactly what vaccinations the animals have received. in addition, electronic labelling will prevent confusion and deception from 2011. we have done a great deal in recent years to reduce animal diseases in europe, especially rabies, also thanks to the efforts of the european commission, which was the first to impose and finance the vaccination of foxes. this is a very important point and we must take it into account. these special rules, which are approved again and again for some countries, are a burden on the citizens. here the expense is out of proportion to the benefit. i have received letters from many citizens complaining about harassment at the borders. i will give you an example from the united kingdom: if you arrive two days early, and you have been staying for six months, you will be fined eur 3 000 and your animal will be detained for six weeks. it is worth considering whether this is the right course of action. that is why i think, commissioner, that it will take another year, but then it must be over. we have european rules that apply to everyone. the risk of spread if the animal disease situation remains as it is, this must always be assumed does not exist in domestic animals in this form.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr dalli, welcome to the house. i can agree with mr schnellhardt that you have a great task in this area to create by 2011 a genuine equality of conditions in the 27 member states for the transport and taking of pets from one country to another without harassment. the free movement of dogs and cats was the aim of the 2003 regulation. now, for the third time, we're going to make an exception. in the eu, some things take a long time to adjust: ten years. no country in the eu wants diseases to be brought in, and i wonder why 22 countries accept that you can bring dogs and cats, and five countries do not. they should check whether the reality and harassment still meet these special requirements. i know that there are delicate debates at national level, but we are a legal area and it is time to introduce free movement, the internal market for pets, by 2011. the animal expert schnellhardt has already mentioned the conditions, namely that there is a vaccination certificate and that instruments such as electronic identification are used, which allow you to enter the five countries when you are on holiday or when you go to work and want to take your pets with you. this pet regulation will go down in the history books. it is indeed the first legal act since the treaty of lisbon, and we wanted to be on an equal footing with the council of ministers in empowering the commission to act by delegation. it was a tough fight, but it was worth it. i congratulate mrs de brún on this report and, of course, on this procedure, which is the beginning of a new era. this is why it is so important, because we have perhaps a hundred pieces of legislation a year, but 6,000 delegated acts, and this shows how important it is to get the new procedure right from the start.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for this opportunity to give you an update of the commission’s work on reviewing the package travel directive. at the time of the adoption of the directive in 1990, package holidays were the most common type of holidays. since then the market scene has changed significantly: the development of the internet has made it possible for consumers to make their reservations directly from tour operators, air carriers and hotels. furthermore, the rapid development of low-cost air carriers has revolutionised the supply of air transport. it has also enhanced competition and consumer choice in the travel market. nowadays a majority of eu citizens organise their holidays themselves rather than purchasing predefined packages. these changes have resulted in a decreasing number of consumers being protected when going on holiday. we are also aware that the existing directive has led to an uneven playing field for the holiday industry, with some operators being regulated by the directive while others are not, even though they sell similar products. moreover, the minimum harmonisation of the directive has caused legal fragmentation in the member states. this means that the current legislation may not be up to date. for this reason the commission launched the impact assessment process to prepare for a possible revision of the package travel directive last year. in the context of the impact assessment work the commission published a study on consumer detriment in the area of the so-called ‘dynamic packages’ in november 2009. at the same time the commission launched a public consultation on the revision of the directive. this consultation was closed on 7 february 2010. the commission is now examining more than 170 contributions, which will feed into the impact assessment. the scope of the possible revision will depend on the outcome of the impact assessment. however, let me explain briefly the guiding principles of this work. first, a high level of protection is key if we want to make sure that consumers have confidence in their holiday purchases. second, we must improve the functioning of the internal market for travel, in particular since cross-border purchases are so frequent in this area. there is therefore a good case for more harmonisation of the relevant legislation in member states. finally i think it is necessary to create a more level playing field for the businesses selling travel packages. the commission is planning to present its proposal early in 2011. the key challenges for the revision will be to define the scope of the directive. the commission will look into the possibilities of extending the scope of the directive to cover a wider range of travel arrangements including the ‘dynamic packages’. this could help to reverse the trend of the decreasing number of consumers being protected when going on holiday. we will need to update the different information requirements and clarify the obligation and liabilities of the professional parties to the contract. finally, in order to improve consumer awareness, the commission will explore the cost and benefits of introducing a standardised package travel label which would have to be displayed when selling package holidays. in parallel with this work the commission is examining the possibilities of enhancing protection against bankruptcy for passengers buying stand-alone air tickets, as recently requested by the european parliament. at the beginning of 2009 the commission published an independent report that explored the different possible ways of addressing the consequences of bankruptcies. we also launched a public consultation on the future of air passengers’ rights on 15 december 2009. these elements will serve as a basis for the impact assessment. we aim to present the most appropriate bankruptcy protection measures to parliament before the end of 2010.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking commissioner dalli on behalf of my group for his commitments and declarations that he intends to revise the package travel directive of 1990 in 2011. it also fits perfectly into the time window we have now, which we should use because there are a number of issues in the package travel sector when consumers are not properly informed about their rights. for example, many internet platforms now provide links to entice them to book further offers, even though these offers are not subject to the same protection mechanisms as the first ones. this is particularly the case with the offers of low-cost airlines. secondly, these low-cost airlines make it impossible to serve judicial documents in most member states of the european union, thus making consumer protection very difficult, precisely where consumers actually want to defend themselves legally. this should be changed by a new proposal for a directive. thirdly, we must also ask whether the rights of air passengers and the rights which apply under the existing package travel directive should not be transferred in the long term to a common document in order to resolve conflicts of assessment between the two pieces of legislation. fourthly, i believe - and you have pointed this out, commissioner - that the fact that there are national differences in the assessment of the activities of travel agencies naturally makes it very difficult for travel agencies to provide services across borders. in some countries travel agencies are liable in the same way as package tour operators, in others, such as my own, travel agencies are merely intermediaries. it would be desirable if we could agree on at least some principles throughout europe to facilitate the crossborder activities of these travel agencies. in view of the increasing use of the internet by consumers, package travel offers should also be marked as such on the internet in the future, in order to avoid abuse here as well.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to begin by extending a warm welcome to you on behalf of the alde group. you have already indicated that you intend to revise the directive in question. it is true that we can be happy to live in europe, because in europe, in the european parliament, we can even discuss how to travel with ferrets, with pets. that was the previous debate, and i was very happy and proud to be a european, because we also have regulations on consumer protection and animal welfare. now it's about the people who travel. this is an important right in europe. we want mobility, free movement for people, and we have been thinking about how to secure this. twenty years ago we had the directive which regulated package holidays so that you could rely on it: i can explore other countries, see the beauties of other countries in europe and know exactly that i am protected in my rights. i'm informed in advance of what to expect, i'm not misled, the information must be accurate, and if something doesn't work, i get compensation. that was 20 years ago. as you said, commissioner, a lot has changed. in fact, individual bookings are now frequently made via the internet, and this leads to gaps in the system. six months ago, we from the committee on transport put a question to the commissioner for transport because we had a case in slovakia in connection with skyeurope where passengers were stranded on low-cost flights and then not carried on. it is true that this was a small gap, affecting only those who had booked online without a credit card, but we want people to be able to move freely in europe, to enjoy their holidays and to be protected. i would like to say that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the package travel directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and that the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the package travel directive is implemented in a uniform manner. we have to discuss this further, and i am looking forward to it, because we want to be able to travel happily and safely in europe, not only with the animals but also with the family as people.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i would like to add a few questions to what mr scicluna has said on behalf of the committee. commissioner, if there are 70, 80, 90 or 100 times as many financial transactions in the world as there are real social products and if this trend is becoming more and more dynamic, would you say that this explosion of financial products is largely accompanied by speculative elements? and if so, how do you intend to contain them, or what might be a contribution to their containment? if short-term financial transactions in relation to real social product are increasing more and more in this world, do you agree with us that you need to strengthen long-term sustainability in the real economy, where people work, where people make money, where people produce products that you can consume, that you can use? and if you are of that opinion, how do you think we can achieve that? if the financial transaction tax could contribute to this - we are looking at this - what, commissioner, could be the time horizon within which you would negotiate this with your international partners? we have the impression that the financial instruments created in this world are being used right now to speculate against the euro zone and to attack the euro and the weakest member states. is it not time that we negotiated this and defined a european path? the commissioner, i cannot understand why we are suggesting that member states increase vat by 3 or 4 percentage points or more when a transaction tax of 0.01 or 0.05 percentage points is intended to ruin competition and weaken europe's position. i don't like to believe that. get active now! that's the wish of this house!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what's this about? the question is quite simple: how can the financial markets help to reduce the costs they have caused to states, to societies, to the economy? that is the fundamental question we have to answer. i think we have worked out a very balanced text together. i am also very grateful to the commissioner for the way he has put it. on the one hand, we cannot pretend that europe is the island of the fortunate and that we can do and not do as we please and that global financial markets will not react to this. it has to be internationally coordinated. on the other hand, we must also ensure that the sector makes an appropriate contribution to the crisis. so i also want to warn you about this: we cannot invent a new topic every week that will solve all the problems of the world. a few months ago it was a surcharge on airline tickets to solve all the problems, now it's the financial transaction tax to solve all the problems, next month someone will think of something else. we should leave the church in the village. the aim is to involve the financial markets in an internationally coordinated context. if the commission can come up with a sensible solution and if it can be incorporated into the international negotiations, then we are on the right track. we should be honest with ourselves, too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what we want is for speculators to do their part to manage risk and to manage risk. that's the right approach. we have our full support for that, commissioner.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the single european payments area is an important, indeed a central instrument of the european internal market. i am grateful to mr gauzès for getting us started. my group fully supports it and would like to see it functioning. i am also personally not opposed to setting an end date for the transition, whereby i am not so much concerned with three or four or five months as with the fact that it will actually work. to really function, there are two things. first of all, the call to industry: it must be consumer-friendly. we cannot afford to have rumors, we cannot afford to have secret resistance, we cannot afford to have regrets about the old system in these times. so it has to be functional, also in the minds of those who have to use it in the end. secondly, it must also work in the interests of the economy. i would like to raise a point which is still a stumbling block, namely the question of how direct debits are settled in intra-bank transactions. the economic sector does not yet seem to be in a position to propose a reasonable model. there is still a gap, there is still a bottleneck, and if the economy is not able to present a common model that works within the european union, then the commission - and this is also stated in this motion for a resolution - must submit a concrete proposal within a certain time limit, let us say this year. we cannot go to the business community and ask for an end date for the transition, but not take the initiative to remove the obstacles that payment service providers seem unable to overcome by themselves. we need a joint initiative here, then the whole thing can work. that would be our approach to the debate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, it is true that a common currency includes uniform procedures. it is right to think about how we can give a little more weight to the uniform procedures, which have not yet been adopted everywhere in the european payments area. on the other hand, i am very clear that we still need to adjust the rulebook in a few places. i myself come from a country where direct debit is a very common procedure to facilitate the processing of certain payments which are due on a regular basis. the procedure currently provided for in the rules is a very bureaucratic, very complicated procedure, and i would therefore be very pleased, commissioner, if this particular area were to be dealt with again in view of a deadline - which we all want - that we have set. on the one hand, there must be no fraud - this is a crossborder problem - but on the other hand, every municipal charge, every magazine subscription, every insurance contribution, mobile phone bill, etc. should continue to be collected by businesses in a simple procedure. that is my request, and there is a corresponding passage in our motion for a resolution on this subject, so that we can contribute to ensuring that procedures which have proved successful in the member states can be guaranteed even after the final introduction of the single payment area.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. this report is about a project which parliament has been pursuing for many years and which may now be taken a step further towards success. we wanted to free micro-enterprises - and we are talking about extremely small enterprises, with very few employees, with minimal turnover and profit figures, operating basically only in the regional area, in the local area, the small master baker, the small master painter - from the balance sheet obligations. parliament has tried to enforce this in negotiations with the council - the fourth directive in question has been amended several times - on several occasions. a final attempt was made in the context of mrs van den burg's report at the end of 2008. the council has not succeeded in doing so in the negotiations with the council at that time. as a result, in december 2008, parliament adopted a resolution, almost unanimously, calling on the commission to legislate for this possibility of exempting micro-enterprises. that is what has happened. the commission has made the proposal and has done exactly what parliament wanted. at the same time, a committee convened by the european commission - namely mr stoiber's group, which is concerned with cutting red tape - also took a position on this problem, saying that this would be the key instrument to relieve the burden on the smallest businesses in europe. the total amount of savings is eur 6.3 billion. it should also be borne in mind that micro-enterprises in particular suffer from bureaucratic burdens. this commission proposal is the flagship of bureaucracy reduction and bureaucracy reduction policy in the european union and is therefore of central and great importance. there are a number of good reasons why this proposal is right. the directive we are discussing now dates from 1978. it was aimed at large and medium-sized enterprises. it was never meant for small businesses! the fact that this directive imposes obligations on micro-enterprises, namely the obligation to draw up balance sheets whose structures and elements are essentially the same as those of large enterprises, completely ignores the real needs and needs of micro-enterprises. if a micro-enterprise like this needs a loan, the balance sheet has a face value close to zero. i would venture to say that most of these micro-enterprises - and this is confirmed by the commission's investigations - have no understanding of their own balance sheet. the value is, i repeat, practically zero. what's interesting about lending is the question of cash flow. the question of liquidity, for example, and the question of the availability of reserves, is one of these. but these are all things that do not appear in the balance sheet in principle in this form; the commission has not yet received any information on the amount of the loan granted to the company. it is not a competition issue either, contrary to much that has been brought up by parts of the lobby here. these companies are not normally in competition in the internal market in a cross-border sense. they're just regional and local. this is why it is not a problem of relevance to the internal market. the single market is not an end in itself. he's important, and it's good that we have him. but it is intended to regulate measures which are essential for the functioning of the internal market in the crossborder area, and not issues which concern the internal economy of a country only. with that in mind, we should end this endless story now. we should approve this report. this also creates all the conditions for the council to reconsider this question and for the qualified minority there to be dissolved. this would be good for the smallest companies in europe!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the alde shadow rapporteur, i cannot understand at all how anyone can object to the fact that micro-enterprises - i emphasize micro-enterprises, not small or medium-sized enterprises - can be exempted from the annual reporting obligations, but do not have to be exempted. this is not about the export-oriented medium-sized enterprise from baden-württemberg with a hundred employees, but about the small craft enterprises, the flower shop, the baker around the corner, the newly founded it start-up. for years, politicians have been repeating, in a prayerful manner, at both national and european level, that it is the smallest enterprises that need to be relieved of the burden. the unnecessary costs, in this case unnecessary costs for their tax adviser, not the necessary costs in belgium it is the lawyers who draw up these annual accounts, in france the auditors , unnecessary labour and administrative burdens, especially now in the current financial and economic crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make a number of proposals. only 7% of the micro-enterprises we are talking about here are actually cross-border. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the accounting rules have also been difficult to adapt to the requirements of large and medium-sized enterprises, which were not adapted to the micro-enterprises in question from the outset. and if i listen to the arguments of the other side, first, the small business owner might need a loan and then he can't present anything to his bank. i tell you, anyone who knows basel ii knows that the annual balance sheet is at most a nice twist for the bank, but nothing more. secondly, the so-called protection of creditors: if you rely on the balance sheet as a creditor, you are a failure. in all my years as a notary, i have never seen a buyer rely on the credibility of an annual report, in any form, in a sale of a company of this magnitude. thirdly, the southern member states of this union - yes, those very ones who are now always in disgrace in our newspapers - want to keep the old system. you can, the regulation is optional. but if a state requires annual accounts from micro-enterprises because it has no functioning tax administration and exercises no control other than the receipt of the annual accounts, it should not be surprised by the lack of tax revenue or tax fraud. i therefore appeal to all members, and in particular to the social democrats, to support this sensible regulation, especially since all the concerns were addressed by mr lehne in our legal affairs committee through compromise arrangements and no further substantive arguments followed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am very surprised at the discussion by colleagues who, on the one hand, talk about simplification for smes and small businesses, but then, when the very first step is to be taken for micro-enterprises - and we are only talking about them today, not of any other scale - already tend to say no again. we cannot always demand and then say no. i've talked to a lot of small businesses. they are waiting and hoping for this arrangement. i have spoken to the regional banks, and they have made it very clear to me that they would have no problem with changing the accounting; they are working with different data anyway. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. trade is not affected because the micro-enterprises do not have any impact on the european market in the sense of pan-european trade. i would like to ask my colleagues to support this first step and thank mr lehne and the committee for the excellent work they have done.
member of the commission. - mr president, despite the late hour, we are dealing with a subject which, as was said a moment ago, is extremely important. i have listened to everyone and i think that not one of you has failed to support the need to reduce the burden, the administrative complexity, which weighs on so-called micro-enterprises. i would remind you - after checking this figure with my services - that the text we are talking about could affect almost 5 million businesses in europe. however, i note - after listening to you - differences, disagreements about the timetable, mrs castex, and/or about the modalities. i would like to reiterate my conviction. i said before parliament - when you were so kind as to hear me - that citizens, consumers - and i said before you that small and mediumsized enterprises first - must take back the economic single common market, the single market. that is why we can, with great determination, improve this text in the dialogue we are going to have with the council. i think - as president lehne said - that we need that operational signal. i was very sensitive to the earl of dartmouth's rather rare compliments to the commission. he said: 'for once, the commission is doing something.' i've noted your reasonable remarks. i hope that now that we are going to have to work together, i can show you that very often the commission does sensible, useful, practical things, and i do not despair of convincing you to support more resolutely and more often the efforts of the european commission. i am in any case in that mood towards you, with a little bit of utopia, but i do not give up on convincing you that the commission is doing useful things, with the support and often at the request of the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, i think that this concrete, progressive, reasonable proposal offers a substantial simplification of the burdens on the smallest companies. this proposal will not abolish the keeping of accounts. it will not prevent companies from passing on the information needed by the various stakeholders. it will not prevent anyone from complying with the provisions of the directive if he so wishes. in this i clearly respond to the concerns expressed by mr sterckx. this proposal will provide the possibility of adapting the rules for the publication of financial information at national and regional level. accounting rules for very small firms are better when they are adopted at the same level as the one where they operate, i.e. at the local level. i think timing is very important. this proposal can be implemented quickly. i think this is a chance not to be missed to help small businesses. i have heard mrs castex mention the other horizon, the forthcoming deadline for the overall revision of the accounting directives. the deadline we are working towards - you said late 2010, it will probably be early 2011 - is a deadline we do not want to miss. i have heard mr gauzès's clear and standard recommendation. we will also use this tool in the global revision of accounting guidelines. but it is not incompatible to make the progress that this proposal on micro-enterprises represents, with your support, and to go further, to make further progress in the context of the overall revision of the accounting directives. let's not wait. this overall review - i told you at the beginning of 2011 - will take time. i have noted the very specific comments made by many of you: mr de jong earlier, mr kariņš, mr feio, mrs swinburne and others have alluded to the crisis we are in and the difficulties of the economy. the calculations we have made show that if we succeed in reviving the internal market as president barroso has committed to do, and this is the essence of my mandate, if we succeed in making this internal market extremely efficient and more fluid, we can find in ourselves, at home, in europe, between 0.5 and 1.5 per cent additional growth. we can look for growth outside, in global competition, but let's start by finding it at home. i think - as the philosophy of mr lehne's report shows - that a large part of this growth is to be found in the five million very small businesses in europe, if we are to make their work easier. that's the philosophy of this proposal. i have heard mr karas and mrs ranner talk about minimum requirements or minimum standards. i would also point out that mr lehne's report does not close the door on minimum requirements. we need time for that. we shall see what we can do about this with the council. i ask you to take this report and this proposal for what they are: a concrete step forward, a step forward, an operational element, which the five million very small european businesses and the millions of jobs they create need to develop in the face of the present difficulties. that is why i, in turn, want to thank president lehne and assure him that following the vote which will be parliament's, we hope, i will be able - and i am committed to doing so - to work very quickly with the council to achieve this concrete and practical progress in favour of the very small enterprises of the great european market.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i should like to thank all the members and the commissioner for the debate. i have six points of principle. firstly, impact assessment: the commission has presented a comprehensive impact assessment of this commission proposal and has also presented it to the legal affairs committee. we in the legal affairs committee specifically asked what additional impact assessment should be carried out after the sterckx report was adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we waited for weeks for the answer, and it was zero. secondly, it is absolutely correct that the compromise provides for minimum rules. it is not the case that all obligations are being dropped, but that they are being reduced to what is really necessary, to what is needed by the companies. thirdly, if a bank loan requires such a balance sheet, there is nothing to prevent such a balance sheet from being drawn up. however, if micro-enterprises may not need such a bank loan at all, it is also not objectively clear why they should be burdened with these additional costs for auditors and tax advisers. fourthly, the rules on taxation remain the same, they are not affected at all. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. fifthly, the fourth and seventh directives are not a small task, they are a very big one. the seventh directive also covers consolidated accounts. it's highly complex and highly complicated. i would venture to predict that if we do not take this decision now, then there is a very real danger that a major revision of the fourth and seventh directives will lead to the downfall of small and mediumsized enterprises, because they will not really play a role in this debate, because their lobby will not really play a role in this debate. that is why it is important to make this decision now and not later, when you do not know whether you can do it at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i know of only one major european trade union representing the interests of smes which is opposed to this. everyone else is for it. i think that should be made clear again at this point.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would naturally like to thank mrs in 't veld on behalf of my colleague and friend, mr joaquín almunia, for her report on competition policy in 2008. i would also like to add to this thanks to mr bütikofer and mr bielan, who, as rapporteurs for the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, also contributed to the preparation of this report. madam president, the commission notes that this year parliament's resolution deals with a very large number of issues - you have just mentioned them. in addition to the commission's report on competition policy, it also covers the commission's reports on the operation of the regulation and on the revision of the merger regulation. in the commission's view, your resolution has two objectives. it will enable us, firstly, to improve still further the content of our annual reports on competition policy and, secondly, and most importantly, it will serve as a basis for the commission to engage in a thorough dialogue with parliament, and i will certainly convey to my colleague mr almunia your last encouragement to go further in this dialogue with your parliament. this dialogue is essential for the proper functioning of all policies, including, we believe, competition policy. parliament reiterated its wish that competition policy should be implemented through the codecision procedure. madam member, the commission - i can say this quite frankly - is not empowered to amend the provisions of the treaty concerning the legal basis applicable to this competition policy. however, we are willing to examine, on a case-by-case basis, whether codecision can apply to new initiatives when their objectives go beyond the competence of competition. on this point, you know that commissioner almunia announced last january that parliament would be fully associated with any legislative initiative concerning claims for damages brought by individuals. the commission shares the parliament's view that the current economic crisis cannot justify any relaxation of the competition rules, either in the area of merger control or in that of state aid. the commission's current record clearly shows that it has remained very firm on these principles; the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement with the united states. the year 2008 saw the beginning of this economic and financial crisis, which is very special. the report on competition policy reflects the very ambitious work the commission has carried out in this context in close cooperation with its partners at national and european level. the crisis reached its peak in 2009. the key chapter of this 2009 report will be devoted to competition in the context of this economic and financial crisis. this 2009 report is expected to be adopted in the second quarter of this year. it will be presented to parliament by commissioner almunia, and it will certainly be an opportunity for parliament and the commission to engage once again in a constructive debate. mrs in 't veld, you also raised your amendment at the end of your speech on the question of vertical restraints. the commission is convinced, madam rapporteur, that it has struck a reasonable balance on this point. on the one hand, the block exemption allows suppliers to select their distributors and to agree with them on the conditions for the resale of their products, both in relation to sales at physical points of sale and to online sales. this enables them to decide on the best way to distribute their products and protect their brand image. on the other hand, authorised distributors must be free to use the internet and the conditions applied to their online sales must be equivalent to the conditions approved for sales at physical points of sale in order to avoid any unnecessary restrictions on their use of the internet. this makes the proposal a contribution to the commission's general policy of promoting the online market and online commerce.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you and the commissioner for your presentation and to point out that the control of compliance with the rules of european competition law is in the original interest of consumers. it is very gratifying that the commission has included for the first time a chapter on competition law and its relevance to consumers. this is particularly welcome after a five-year drought of european commission communication on competition policy. the difficult phase of enforcing european competition law, particularly as regards the member states' aid rights and aid schemes for banks, is yet to come. in 2008, that wasn't a problem. the clear message from this report is that the commission must be careful in its controls so that the european single market and european consumers are not affected. the treatment of smes is particularly important in this context. the report clearly advocates that the medium-sized industry be given special treatment in the imposition of cartel penalties. vertical agreements in the online market are difficult in our view, but an assessment such as that now proposed after the econ vote seems premature in our view, and we would therefore like to stick to the report of the economic committee.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today we are talking about the internal market, consumer protection and the mobility of people in the european union. that is what these three instruments are all about, and i should like to focus on that. bringing these three issues together is a very big win that we have today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is what we have to bring forward for the future. that is why it is good that we are having this joint debate today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. firstly - and commissioner barnier put it very well earlier - it is a question of overcoming the protectionism which is still very much present in the member states, in the national governments. we need it, it's on the agenda. the second political principle is that we must at the same time guarantee the rights of consumers and workers at a very high level. that is to say, the internal market does not mean the abolition of rights, it does not mean deregulation, but it means ensuring that we maintain common rights at a very high level in these areas. that is why we do not agree with one aspect of mrs von thun und hohenstein's report, namely the so-called internal market indicator or internal market test. because that's the wrong term. it gives the impression that it's all about how the market works. it's not that! we must ask ourselves what impact the legislation in the european union has on the rights of workers and consumers. that is why we reject this term, because it is a false term. thirdly, we need good enforcement of rights at european level. that is why we need a system of class actions so that consumers are not left alone in this single market, but can really assert their rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to repeat what mr barnier said at the beginning: the great importance of the internal market in the present crisis. that is what we are talking about. but the single market also requires that citizens have confidence in it. it's the only way it works. it's still missing on many levels. we members of parliament in particular often find in the debates in our home countries that these fears about the internal market are still very much alive among the citizens and that, unfortunately, issues such as protectionism are attractive not only because they are set by the government but also because many citizens support such things. it is therefore all the more important that we in parliament ensure that more confidence is built in this single market. the consumer policy is of course a very important element in this. consumer policy, consumer protection at a high level can strengthen and protect citizens' confidence in the internal market. that is why we must work harder in this area. i welcome the fact that you have come together as commissioners today. you know that our group has also criticised the fact that there is no longer a commissioner or a commissioner responsible for consumer policy, because the signal given by mrs kuneva was a very positive one. we therefore welcome the fact that you are making it very clear that you want to cooperate in this area. we were also afraid that by distributing the consumer protection to different commissioners, it would end up being too little. i hope that this sign is not a one-off, but that you will cooperate very closely here, because we have very important issues to deal with, for example, the issue of the right of association, the issue of class action, has not yet been discussed and should be taken forward. this is also very important in order to build confidence among the citizens. we need more instruments to make it clear that citizens are protected in the single market. solvit is a very important tool for this. we therefore fully support mr buşoi's report. solvit, an out-of-court solution, creates confidence in the internal market, provides greater knowledge of the internal market, and this is something that is very often lacking on the part of the authorities in the member states, and solvit can provide an important and central complement. i am the rapporteur on the budget this year and i can assure mr dalli that we will be paying attention to budgetary matters, to the allocations in the field of consumer policy. we have already approached our committee on budgets and stressed that we want appropriations to be advanced, that we want the money to be used. you can count on our support. i think that these three reports are a very important, very good signal. we support them. there is one point on which we have criticism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if you look at the guidelines, you have to look at them from different angles. sustainability also plays an important role, because social issues play an important role. it should not be examined only from the point of view of the internal market, but if so, then extensively. and the issue of subsidiarity must not be overlooked in this context. we therefore regret the one-sided mention of the internal market check. but in principle we support the rapporteur's approaches, including the internal market check, and we will support the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact that we are discussing three own-initiative reports on consumer protection and the internal market today shows that, despite all the successes, there is still a lot of work to be done in these areas. while member states have made great improvements in the implementation of the internal market directives on average, seven member states have failed to meet the commission's target of reducing the backlog of implementation of internal market directives to 1%. the main problem, however, is not so much the implementation of eu law as the application of it. the average time taken by member states to comply with the ecj's judgment is 18 months - still far too long. this is shown by the current single market indicator and is unacceptable to the liberals. this deficit is causing problems for citizens and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which rely on harmonised rules in the internal market but then unexpectedly encounter time-consuming and bureaucratic obstacles when they want to operate across borders. it is therefore important that solvit be further developed. solvit is an online problem-solving network in which member states work together to solve problems arising from the incorrect application of internal market rules by public authorities in a pragmatic way. finally, all member states must provide the financial resources and the adequate number of well-trained staff for the solvit centres. the liberals are calling for solvit to be better known in the member states to make it easier for them to sell their products and services across borders. this requires the involvement of the relevant associations in large-scale information campaigns and a single, easy-to-understand and easy-to-find internet portal to deal with all types of complaints.
the commission has already done so. i would like to expressly endorse the useful contributions already made by the members - the last one i will leave out - and therefore i would like to come straight to the main points. the report by mrs von thun is a very good example of how we as a parliament can show that we are serious about implementing what we have decided together with the council. and implementation is a matter for the member states. we must, as a parliament, work together with the commission to ensure that this implementation succeeds in the coming years. the second point that this report also shows is that the division that the socialists seem to want, namely that they are responsible for welfare, consumer protection and worker protection, while the commission is supposed to control the internal market, will not work. the report also contains a number of amendments which are intended to improve the quality of the information provided by the commission. we do not want to destroy the rights of workers, but we want to give workers the opportunity to buy the products they value. we do not want to put the social structures in the member states in difficulty, but we do want these social structures to adapt to the future. this requires a balancing act which parliament must carry out jointly with the commission. it is not possible for the commission to be responsible for the difficulties and for parliament to promise the benefits. secondly, mrs hedh's report, which, like all the reports we are discussing here, has been very well complemented by the shadow rapporteurs, shows that we must give the same importance to consumer confidence as to the confidence of businessmen and women. this will be a future task and it can only be solved if we put the single market objective at the centre of our longterm strategy, if we put an end to the fragmentation into individual directorates-general and different policy approaches and if we really see the single market as the great objective of the european project, which we have largely neglected in recent years. i am very pleased that you are both here today, commissioners, and that you are taking this momentum with you to the commission for the next five years.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the high importance of the internal market and consumer policy in europe is shown by this joint debate this morning, and by the high quality of all three reports. i would like to thank all three rapporteurs and the many shadow rapporteurs and colleagues who have brought this joint work to fruition. i want to focus on two critical points: the first is that we, the commission and we in this house, assume that everything is running relatively smoothly in the internal market, that we have informed consumers and fair suppliers. that's often true, but not always. there are irresponsible suppliers who only see their short-term profit, and that is why we need to increase market surveillance and supervision. but there are also uninformed consumers. we need better information. it is not enough that the package insert is legible. we need continuous information. it was said just now that we need trust. but trust comes from knowledge. i have heard that in germany only one in two 14- to 24-year-olds knows what inflation means. i don't want to ask what the poll results would be for the word "deflation". we need better networking in schools, and information about the conflict of interests between the interests of providers and consumers. this is stated in the reports by my colleagues.
i have to say, madam president, on the one hand, i can understand the interest of the individual member states in pushing for the extension of the special import arrangements for pets. on the other hand, we must always be careful to balance the effort with the benefits. in this case, it is not sufficiently guaranteed. that is why i abstained. what we particularly need is, on the one hand, adequate and effective external protection when it comes to imports within the european union, but on the other hand, increasingly, also harmonisation within the european union, because this is also in the interests of the consumer, who eventually loses sight of the fact that import conditions in country a are different from those in country b.
in writing. − i am very pleased that the european parliament has today decided to approve eu aid of eur 6.2 million for dismissed employees of the car supplier karmann. the european union now contributes 65% of the total €9 million available. this appropriation is intended to provide additional retraining and training for some 1800 people to help them get back to work as soon as possible. this is a concrete contribution by the european union to help people in crisis. the eu is thus demonstrating its willingness and ability to help individuals in emergency situations. the important thing is that the money is available smoothly and immediately so that people can quickly return to the first job market. in addition to this individual aid for affected workers, the european union must also take additional measures to cope with the effects of the financial crisis. globalisation in the sense of the international division of labour (division of wealth) is both sensible and important. however, the commission, the european parliament and the member states must in future work more intensively to ensure fair conditions of competition in international economic relations, in order to avoid the disadvantage of individual countries or sectors.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr barroso, the euro crisis was triggered by incorrect figures supplied by greece. i want to know about you . can you confirm that you or the commission services were not aware of the actual figures at any time before the greek government submitted the latest figures on its budget deficit? secondly, can you confirm that the director-general of eurostat, mr rademacher, has already expressed considerable doubts about the athens data in 2004 and 2005? what steps have you taken to assist eurostat in collecting data? thirdly, is it true that the eurostat inspectors have informed you that they have serious doubts about the data supplied from athens?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i got it. mr almunia was in charge. i asked you about your interventions, but you can tell me what you did. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. could you tell us which heads of government of which member states they were?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. given the situation that there is currently no real market in the european union, no need to grow genetically modified starch potatoes there are alternatives i ask you why you have been so pressing for the approval of the genetically modified amflora potato in a very short, quick procedure. since there is no need, i would like to know why you have persuaded the new commissioner for health to simply ignore the concerns of the who regarding the testing of feed, why you have not waited for the new guidelines to be presented by efsa, which is currently working on the risk assessment of risks posed by gmos to biodiversity and the biosphere as a whole, and why you have also en passant raised the contamination limit for feed and for food potatoes to 0.9%. i think that is a risky strategy which is not at all acceptable to our citizens.
president of the commission. − the commission decided unanimously to move ahead with the authorisation of this gmo in accordance with the provisions of european law. we have an institutional setting that we have to respect and we had to take a position: ‘yes’ or ‘no’. a considerable period of time has elapsed since their application was lodged and this is because this authorisation was subject to intense scrutiny by the european food safety authority (efsa), our independent agency in terms of food security. we wanted all concerns regarding the possible presence of an antibiotic resistance marker gene to be thoroughly assessed. after an extensive and complete review of these pending files, it was clear that there were no new scientific issues that merited further assessments, based on the opinion of our competent agency – that is independent from the commission. therefore, we believe that all scientific issues have been fully addressed. in fact i was expecting a word of congratulations from you...(protests)...because i have announced that the commission has the intention to propose to give member states the choice as to whether or not they want to cultivate gmos. this is, i think, a reasonable position considering that there are deep differences among our member states – some very much in favour, and some very much against.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. firstly, mr president of the commission, i have not received any answer to the question of the need for this genetically modified potato, which is supposed to provide industrial starch. there are alternatives. so why take the risk? secondly, the pollution limit. why 0.9% all of a sudden? so far, we've been discussing the limit of detection, and i think that's a very high risk for feed and food, or for an antibiotic-resistant potato. you didn't say anything about that. i would also like to know whether you are planning to grant further authorizations in the foreseeable future, for example for imports of rice or maize, without the directive and the recommendations of efsa being available. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. − seeing the enthusiasm of your group – and i want to congratulate you on that manifestation – you have a strong position against any gmo. that is clear. you have that right. i do not have any position in favour or against. it depends on the opinion that is given to me by experts of the efsa. i do not have any prejudice in favour or against gmos. the commission has a position that is to follow in those matters. i do not see the commission having ideological discussions about each gmo and what it should do regarding each one. the commission takes a position based on the independent assessment given to us, not because a gmo is necessary, but if there is no evidence that it poses a risk to public health or the environment we feel obliged to accept it, also in accordance with the obligations we have under the wto, if there is nothing that prevents us – scientifically – from doing so. (protests) that said, we respect very much the subsidiarty principle in the european union. (the president cut off the speaker.)
president of the commission. − first of all, we fully respect the diversity of our member states. that is why we make that point very clearly in the european 2020 strategy and why we address this issue of diversity very precisely with instruments like the social and economic cohesion policies. the fact is that our member states are not all the same. at the same time, we need – as was said earlier – stronger economic governance, because failing to coordinate in the euro area and in the european union as a whole makes no sense. if the member states tackle these policies on their own they will certainly not have the leverage for discussions on an equal footing on, for instance, the great challenges we now have globally with the united states or with china. so we need to have a common approach but then at the same time to design specific measures for different member states. regarding the issue of reducing the administrative burden, that has been a very important point in my programme. we believe we should continue considering pragmatically where some european legislation is needed and avoid legislation when it is simply not needed.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr barroso, you presented your proposal for the economic strategy last week. these include important goals. the council has now imposed a programme of austerity on greece, which in my view puts the achievement of these objectives in the realm of the impossible, a country which accounts for 3% of the eu's gross domestic product. but they continue to insist on the failed stability and growth pact. at the same time, several member states are calling for a european monetary fund or for economic governance. my questions are: will you revise your eu 2020 proposal to incorporate the idea of the monetary fund and economic governance, in order to initiate a move away from tax and wage dumping and the prevailing competition ideology? will you take immediate action together with the member states to stop the banks, which have just been bailed out with taxpayers' money, from speculating against the euro?
president of the commission. − regarding the situation of greece, we believe that greece has taken the necessary steps to reduce the government deficit this year. these measures show the determination of the greek government to tackle their structural problems. at the same time, we are doing what is required to secure the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. the commission has been actively working with euro-area member states to design a mechanism which greece could use in case of need. such a mechanism would conform with the current lisbon treaty, in particular with the ‘no bail-out’ clause. it would include stringent conditionality. the commission is ready to propose a european framework for coordinated assistance which would require the support of euro-area member states. this is what i can tell you about greece and about our response for euro area stability. regarding the eu 2020 proposals, we do not see any need to change them. we have put those proposals forward. they are now going to be discussed by the european council and parliament, and we hope this will be a very fruitful discussion.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i'm not entirely satisfied. the question is that taxpayers' money is being used to speculate against the greek state. the tax money also comes from german banks, it has also been handed out by german banks. and nothing happens, but it is always said that we are taking some action. so i am quite disappointed that so little has been done to simply stop certain things in the eu so that these speculations can finally stop and we can really focus on growth and employment.
the point you have raised and your remarks will of course be recorded in detail in the minutes, and i shall try to meet your requirements on the item on the agenda which i am now allowed to chair. i hope it works.
the next item is the commission statement: international climate policy after copenhagen revitalising international negotiations through immediate action.
welcome to this house. the loss of confidence in copenhagen was, in my view, one of the major problems. this could theoretically continue, worldwide, but also within the european union. my question to you is: what is the future of the instruments we decided on last year? i am already in the throes of the ets because i am not quite sure how the commission is going to deal with benchmarks, for example, but also with carbon leakage, as a result of the decision in copenhagen. the second question is: there is a proposal by the french government to include third world importers in the ets system in order to expand the market and to allow these countries to participate in the system. do you have an opinion on that?
commissioner, welcome to the house. i have written to the president of parliament to inform him that all the delegations in this house have the issue of climate protection on their agenda when we make contacts with partners in the world. we have to find a mechanism to link and network this information and these results with your travels around the world, so that we know exactly where we are here in brussels and strasbourg. i am a little afraid that the climate negotiations could suffer the fate of the doha negotiations. these are postponed from year to year. so the question is, what's your plan b for maybe getting results in sub-sectors? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what if we don't pass anything until 2011 or 2012? what is the continuation of the kyoto protocol?
commissioner, i have two specific questions for you. firstly, i find your paper lacking in an analysis of europe's negotiating position at international level. have we really noticed that europe's influence on climate policy has declined? have we noticed that the political and economic weight of this world has shifted very strongly to asia? perhaps we have overestimated ourselves completely. second, your paper is remarkable. it contains, in the 12 pages you wrote, not a single reference to the ipcc panel. is this a sneaking dissociation from this board? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. would it not be time to call for a broad scientific approach here, one that actually provides us with scientific statements rather than political ones?
i am not going to go into detail. more colleagues have not spoken than have spoken. we didn't have enough time. i hope you understand that. i thank you all for the disciplined discussion. i thank you, commissioner. i hope we shall see more of each other in this house. that is likely to be the case. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the oral questions to the council and the commission on the second european roma summit. the commission is also proposing to: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. b7-0202/2010; and the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not when i was in pristina and mitrovica in december 2009 and saw how people lived in the mahalla and especially in the lead-poisoned camps, i was quite shocked, especially about the situation of the children. i learned in almost every conversation that not only in kosovo, but in many european countries, one of the oldest populations in europe, the roma, is in a bad situation. i met bekim syla from the roma and ashkali documentation center in pristina, who welcomed us with the words: "we are tired of words". we must act, and that is why the greatest expectation of córdoba is that it will not only talk, but act immediately. and to act without delay means not to fall back on the eu directives on the implementation of equal rights, equal treatment without distinction of race or ethnic origin, but also not on the employment framework directive, because it is useless. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the rights of roma in the european union is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. what we need, therefore, is a european roma strategy that is part of all policy areas, an integral part of any policy. but most governments are only carrying out projects, sporadic measures. but medium and longterm policies are needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the roma in the community. the eu must make its structural and regional funding more flexible now, not after 2014, so that roma can benefit from it too. this includes small loans, which must be granted as unbureaucratically as possible, for example for the reconstruction of roma settlements. this includes very specific measures to promote health, education, training and the labour market. and i say it quite frankly: no child should fail because of educational or language barriers. we as gue also want schools for all, not roma schools, where roma can also live and learn. it is not just about money, however, but also about taking a firm stand against racism. anti-gypsyism must not be or remain a cavalier offense, but must be punished as a crime. the eu has a major part to play in ensuring that justice is soon done for the more than 10 million roma in europe, because justice starts with justice and equality should continue. this requires a very clear political approach and a determined and effective european framework strategy, and - frankly - it also requires our passionate commitment as members of parliament, as people for this population group, for the roma and sinti. let us act without delay!
vice-president of the commission. − i can assure the honourable member that on volunteering – which is a very important question, and the commission is working on this – she will get the right answers to what she has asked.
vice-president of the commission. − you are aware that one of the values on which the european union is founded is the respect for the rights of persons who belong to minorities, and with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon this is explicitly mentioned in article 2 of the treaty. article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights explicitly prohibits any discrimination on grounds of language or membership of a national minority. the commission will ensure, within the scope of its mandate, that these fundamental rights are respected in eu law, including when member states implement eu law. there are also a number of pieces of eu legislation and eu programmes that can contribute to improving the situation of persons belonging to minorities; the commission intends to combine these instruments to address difficulties including acts of discrimination which are likely to affect persons belonging to minorities. you are also aware that there is the existing eu anti-discrimination legislation, which will be used to ensure equal treatment of persons belonging to a minority, and the commission has adopted a proposal for a new directive currently under discussion that would extend protection against discrimination on the grounds of religion and beliefs, disability, age and sexual orientation to fields other than employment and occupation. the council framework decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law also aims to ensure that hate speech on grounds of race, colour, religion, descent or national and ethnic groups and hate crimes are penalised in all member states. now the commission is monitoring the implementation of this framework decision as closely as possible and a group of national experts has been created to this end. there is also the european union agency for fundamental rights, which plays a key role in assisting the commission to enforce its task; and there is a council of europe charter for regional and minority languages and the framework convention for the protection of national minorities. i would like to tell the honourable member that i hope that more member states would follow the example of those who have already signed and ratified those important conventions.
commissioner, that last point has hit the spot i was referring to. i would like to ask again: are there any instruments for positive discrimination against long-term national minorities? you should develop strategies for this as you would for any other. secondly, is the fundamental rights agency in vienna also responsible for this and how does it organise its contacts with civil society? that is what is happening at the moment, and do the traditional minorities play a role in it? there is nothing more unjust than to treat unequal people equally!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i was very pleased, commissioner, when you said at the hearing in the committee on transport and tourism that the greatest thing that could be achieved in europe was mobility and freedom of movement for people. the free movement of persons and the internal market, which you mentioned, require that goods also move from a to b. we decided in the european parliament in 1992 to create a de facto single market, and in 2001 we also created the conditions for a free internal market in the railway sector with the first railway package. it has already been said: we are now in 2010, and it is still not here. it's actually a shame that 21 states are still putting in blockades. we are dealing with protectionism - that has also been mentioned - and it is extremely regrettable that this is the case. now, of course, you have to think about why that is. the various railway systems you mentioned, commissioner, cannot be the only reason. in fact, there are still many countries that think they can get away with trying to go back to the old days, saying that everything that is now about the separation of infrastructure and service should not be taken so seriously. this is the wrong way to go. i am also very much looking forward to seeing when you can possibly start this revision of the directive. i would also like to ask you specifically - as my predecessors have done - to be strict with the member states. we come from different member states, but we all agree in the transport sector that it is very important to bring order to the world now. you are a new commissioner, you are not to blame for what has happened, nor for the failures. that is why you have a unique opportunity now to move forward relatively smoothly in the railway sector and to really move the single market and all europeans forward. i'm counting on it, and i'm looking forward to what you're going to do next.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, fraudulent practices and the abuse of intellectual property rights. it is a problem for businesses, for workers and for consumers that more and more counterfeit products are also entering the european single market. we now estimate that around 250 billion euros of counterfeits are affecting our market. ideally, if a medicine is fake and the birth control pill doesn't work - as was said at an event the other day - a woman will get pregnant. but in the worst case, if the drug doesn't work, it's a matter of life and death, and that can't be in our best interest. we must urgently take action against infringement of intellectual property rights, against smuggling and against counterfeiting! it is not possible that in 2008 we seized 178 million counterfeit articles at our borders, of which 20 million are dangerous, and over 50% of these articles come from china. so we have to do something about that. the problem is undoubtedly: the treaty of lisbon entered into force on 1 december, acta has been under negotiation for three years, and we as the european parliament have therefore been far from being involved in the past as we need to be in the future. i therefore hope that in the coming weeks and months we will have more transparency in this area. we need access to data that tells us very clearly what is at stake in the negotiations at the moment and what the european commission's positions are. the negotiations must continue, we need a successful conclusion of a meaningful agreement. the criticisms from the various groups are well known in the house. i hope that we will reach a sensible conclusion in the interests of workers, employers, industry and consumers, but that in such a conclusion we will be sure to respect the existing acquis communautaire in the negotiations and not go beyond it.
deputy writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i have three questions, commissioner. the first question is: why is there still no transparency when the treaty of lisbon has been in force since 1 december and when we have had an interinstitutional agreement with the commission since 10 february? i cannot understand why the council is still sitting at the negotiating table as an observer, parliament is not involved and the documents are not public. so why is that, commissioner? the second question that is bothering me is: who is actually negotiating the acta agreement? it is not that it is being negotiated in the wto as a sort of follow-up to trips, but that it is being negotiated by individual states and - as we hear from the united states - by powerful economic interests. i wonder, in fact, whether standards are not being set which will then ultimately apply to everyone, even though not everyone is at the table negotiating. the third question, commissioner, which is troubling me is: what is the substance of the negotiations? you answered my question at your hearing that the acquis communautaire is being safeguarded. but when i look at the individual papers that have been leaked, i have my doubts. i can understand that there are negotiations, that internet blocks are possible, that providers are to be used as a kind of deputy sheriff for economic interests, that sometimes restrictions on research and science are possible, that some even try to introduce general surveillance systems. i wonder where the acquis communautaire is in this area. the question of compensation, that quasi-lost profit should be negotiated in compensation, is also not appropriate to our policy. thirdly, of course, the question, commissioner: what is the relationship between online and offline? when i read that online and offline are both supposed to represent the digital world, does that basically mean that there should be restrictions, searches of laptops, ipods and mp3 players at the border? i would ask you to answer the three questions.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. commissioner de gucht, when you meet with representatives of ten governments in a small circle in a back room to agree on a global surveillance regime, which includes such sensitive chapter headings as 'enforcement of the law' and 'punitive measures in civil context at border controls and on the internet', you need not be surprised if rumors arise, if questions arise that citizens rightly want to know the answers to. i am happy to join the criticism of my colleagues. you must understand the concerns behind the questions agreed by the trade committee between the various political groups, namely that an agreement which was originally intended to deal with the protection of engineering and patents is now going deep into the field of civil rights, the democracy of communications, the potential for decentralized innovation and cultural creation and the protection of personal data. but articles 7 and 8 of the charter of fundamental rights also bind your negotiations, and we will remind you of this constantly. such an agreement will have worldwide repercussions. nevertheless, you negotiate to the exclusion of the emerging and developing countries, to the exclusion of civil society organisations, to the exclusion of trade unions, to the exclusion of parliaments - to the exclusion of the public, to whose service and control you should be put. they also negotiate without a mandate from the european parliament. they continue to feed us with two-page summaries of the results of entire rounds of negotiations. they refuse to follow the new law and to disclose to us in these negotiations the same documents that the member states receive. if you are saying that my group's concerns are unfounded, then prove it. put the negotiating papers on the table immediately. if you want to dream of one day getting the approval of this parliament for your negotiating result, you should learn from the experience of the democratic decision against the swift agreement. welcome to democracy, i can only say. this parliament will no longer allow backroom debates and decisions!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. they are leaving a heavy legacy, and if the subject were not so serious, one could almost smile at the speculation that acta has generated. but i cannot smile about it for two reasons. first, product piracy, trademark and copyright infringement are things that threaten both the integrity of our economy and the health of people. the global economic loss caused by product piracy, trademark and copyright infringement is estimated at eur 185 billion in 2007 alone. this is much more than the budget of the european union. this puts our businesses at risk, encourages crime and destroys jobs. that certainly cannot be in our interest. in addition, counterfeit medicines can have life-threatening effects on people who take them, unaware that they are counterfeits. that is also an unacceptable risk. so it is clear that it is in our best interests to act here. the commission's negotiating mandate must be strictly aligned with the acquis communautaire, so that acta does not become another crazy treaty agreed in the future. this includes, after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the provision of comprehensive and ad hoc information to the european parliament on the state of play of the negotiations on the agreement. we will be asked for our consent. in other words, the european parliament expects full transparency and the publication of the negotiating documents and all relevant documents. if the commission wants to avoid the continuation of speculation and conjecture about acta, i see no other way than to provide the public with full information. i would like to ask three questions: firstly, even though you have already mentioned this, can the commission guarantee that there will be no introduction of a three-strikes-out system? this would be contrary to the newly adopted framework directive on electronic communications. secondly, can the commission guarantee that there will be no introduction of third party liability of internet service providers for content that is transmitted? this is contrary to the e-commerce directive. thirdly, can the commission give assurances that there will be no criminal measures introduced under acta which are outside the competence of the european union, and i am well aware that it is the member states who are responsible for this. but i expect you to do your duty as guardian of the treaties.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr de gucht, more than a year ago we, the european parliament, and the european commission, called on you to ensure that the negotiations on the acta agreement were transparent and included the public and parliaments, and that the focus on combating piracy of products, as announced in the title, was maintained. what have you done since then? i don't know anything. quite the opposite. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we don't know exactly, of course, because we don't get any information from you. but the real scandal is yet to come. since 1 december last year you have not been able to ignore us in many areas and to pursue a common backroom policy with the council. the citizens, through their parliaments, have rightly ensured that the lisbon treaty finally puts a stop to this practice. i wonder what you're doing here. as commission, you are the guardian of the treaties. they have to ensure that the clearly formulated eu treaty is respected. and if you cannot guarantee the respect of the treaty, then there will be another 'no' from this house. and if you think that you cannot guarantee the respect of the treaties in these negotiations, then please stop the negotiations until you can guarantee it. we greens therefore say: act now. act on acta!
in writing. the european commission's negotiations on the agreement to combat product and trade mark piracy (acta) are still raising some questions. the agreement contains legitimate concerns, namely the fight against counterfeiting of products and trademarks and their smuggling, but it must be interpreted even more closely in line with our european principles. this must not lead to harmonisation of copyright, patent or trademark law in the eu on the contrary, the principle of subsidiarity must remain the supreme premise! trade agreements must not be misused to curtail the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament must be more closely involved in the negotiations and we must have full access to the negotiating documents!
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union currently grants 176 developing countries market access through the aps system in the form of reduced import duties. these are the benefits which we as the european union offer without expecting anything in return from our partners. in addition, there is gsp+ for some specific countries with particular challenges and for those meeting special conditions. what's the initial situation? we need a new regulation as from 1 january 2012, because the old one is expiring. we need time for an orderly procedure which gives us time for two readings. i therefore expect my group to see the commission present a new proposal as soon as possible. as i said, we need sufficient time for a two-reading procedure and we cannot be expected as the european parliament to take these decisions in doubt under pressure. and we need an evaluation of the existing system. i hope that very soon we will have figures, data, facts on how the existing system has worked in practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. have the export figures also increased? are the right countries benefiting from this system? i ask the question: is everything in the existing system right? if, for example, countries like qatar, which has a per capita income that is higher than the per capita income of 25 member states of the european union, fall under the gsp system, i am firmly convinced that we should look critically at all of these things when we are reviewing the entire system. i would ask all the members of the political groups, with a view to the vote tomorrow, to stick to the general resolution as agreed in the original draft. i would be very grateful to the honourable members if we did not mention in the resolution the individual cases which were discussed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. we all know that the aps system is a good system and aps+ is a very good system. we must also ensure that the extension is granted, and that is why we need your proposal so that we can properly discuss it in parliament. so give it some gas, commissioner! we may also be able to make some improvements to the aps+ system. i would like to mention five points which could perhaps be improved. firstly, who is to say how the 27 standards are actually implemented, not only recognized in practice but formally implemented? is this the sole responsibility of the ilo, or is there no need for an assessment committee to monitor the implementation in a real and concrete way? secondly, how is civil society involved? i would like to see civil society coordination in the country involved in assessing the implementation of gsp+, as we have now agreed in the south korea agreement. thirdly, who is actually going to issue a search warrant if any problems are found? parliament must be involved here because i feel that there are other interests at play in the council than actually initiating an inquiry. parliament should also issue a mandate for an inquiry into this matter. we certainly need clearer structures for the next steps and also clearer structures for a suspension, but we can perhaps talk about this in detail again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the gsp provides trade preferences mainly to developing and emerging countries. this modern form of development aid, from tariff reductions to exemptions on the markets of the industrialized countries, has achieved a great deal. the aps+ special scheme aims to achieve social and environmental standards. it is the reason why the un and ilo conventions have been signed more and more often. but, commissioner, how does the commission monitor the implementation of these criteria? is the withdrawal of preferences consistently applied when goods produced by forced labour or slavery are exported, when unfair trading practices are involved and when control of origin is not ensured? and shouldn't the human rights gains made by aps+ finally extend to larger states? i am thinking of china, for example. all our resolutions, the demonstrations, the bilateral negotiations between the eu and china have not brought about any improvement in human rights. that is why tomorrow, on international tibet day, hundreds of thousands of people will take to the streets, and tens of thousands of cities and towns in the european union will be hoisting tibetan flags. we stand in solidarity with the people who are fighting for their cultural, linguistic and religious autonomy. do you agree, commissioner, that human rights, social and environmental standards should be removed from the special regulations and integrated into the aps criteria catalogue? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mrs. ashton, we've been listening to you very carefully. unfortunately, we have to admit that we will probably have to wait a while longer until you develop concrete projects for the future from your reflection paper, which we can actually approve. but let me say something about the foreign service, where i would have expected you to be more specific. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in many cases we need joint planning and programming by the foreign office and the commission. if you are in favour of leaving many policy areas to the commission or the council secretariat, you should be honest and admit that you are in favour of the status quo, of the system of the nice treaty. the first important point for us is the extent to which we are adding value to the whole question of civil crisis prevention, civil crisis management and reconstruction. in our view, this is all that peacebuilding is about: conflict prevention, early warning, conflict mediation, reconciliation and short- to medium-term stabilisation. we need an appropriate organisational unit for this. we demand a crisis management and peacebuilding department. i would therefore like to ask you what your views are on the creation of such a department. i would also like to stress at this point that we are in favour of both the cfsp budget and the stability instrument going to the foreign service, but not as part of the cmpd and subordinate to it, but in a new structure which i hope you will create. i'd like to hear your side of the story. a second point of importance for us is the link between traditional foreign policy issues and new issues such as energy policy, climate policy, justice and home affairs. what structures are you planning to provide the foreign service with systematic access to these global policy areas of the eu and its member states? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. we celebrated march 8th this week. it is clear that we are concerned with the establishment of women's rights and the participation of women in this service. several colleagues from this parliament have written to you, mrs ashton, and asked you to create the institutional structures in this service from the outset to ensure that un resolutions 1325 and 1820 are implemented. so, my question again is, what are you planning to do about it? as i said, we're here to help you build a good joint foreign service. i look forward to your answers.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, if i might just give some comments directly on the issues and questions that have been raised. to mr kasoulides, on the non-proliferation treaty review, it is vital that it succeeds above anything else. we believe we have to take practical steps: a comprehensive test ban treaty should come into force; the fissile material cut-off; support for peaceful uses of nuclear energy to find safe ways of making sure that we avoid proliferation – for example, the contributions we make to the nuclear fuel bank – and support for a very strong and effective iaea. we must work of course especially, as we have said, in areas like the middle east, which means that we have to continue to put pressure on iran and address the issues that are raised there. mr severin, on the external action service and the priorities that you gave, well, we are in the same place – exactly so. it is very important to me that the service has political and budgetary accountability, exactly as you have said, and it must be effected in this double-hatted way. it is going to be essential too, as you have indicated, that we draw in and discuss these issues with other key partners. i think you mentioned, for example, russia and turkey. well, russia i have already visited. i was spending part of the weekend with the turkish foreign minister: a real opportunity to talk in much greater depth about that relationship for the future. so i would agree wholeheartedly with the priorities that you set out and thank you for those. mrs neyts-uyttebroeck, thank you for your kind words. i think it was not so much that the eu disappeared from the world stage. it is that the inevitability of that hiatus, of having a commission that was effective, has now been resolved. and, for my own part, it has been extremely important because, until the commission came into force, i did not even have a cabinet, never mind an external action service. and we are now in a position where we can begin to put the resources together. i think it is also absolutely right that you raise the importance of being visible on the ground. my difficulty, as you know, is that i have not yet learned how to time travel. but i think it is absolutely essential that, as we look ahead, we look at the priorities that have been set out with which i think this house will largely agree and make sure that my actions are addressed to those priorities, one of which is setting up the service, which does not yet exist. it does not have a staffing structure. it is not there yet. but when it does have that, we will be able to demonstrate the force of europe in the best sense of that word across the world. mrs brantner, again your common theme to me of trying to get as much detail as possible: i think it is very important. some of the issues that you have raised are very critical. we do not want duplication within the different institutions in terms of what we do. we want the geographical desk approach to what we do, and i agree with you about peace-building: that it is a very important part of where the eu should act. and in a sense it comes into building the different elements of what we do well – the work we do on state-building, on justice, on the rule of law, the work we do on development programmes, the work we do on tackling the issues of climate change, the work that we do on providing support to governments and to people – all of that is engineered to make us more secure, stable and prosperous but actually, by doing so, we are creating a more secure, stable and prosperous world. those objectives are extremely important. i agree with you completely about women. we need to get more women, for example, into our policing missions, where there are very few that i have seen so far. we need to make sure that women are firmly integrated into the service at all levels. that is a challenge we need to make sure that we address. but, most importantly, what i would say to you is that the external action service is at the service of the whole of the european union. so, what we do on justice and home affairs across the world, what do parliamentarians wish to do with other parliaments? we must use the service as we build it to be able to be your servant in helping you address those issues on the ground. i think on those issues, we are in exactly the same place. mr tannock: assertive leadership that is up to the challenge. well, i hope that you will start to see what you would recognise as assertive leadership. it is very important, as you say, that we address some of these critical issues: the balkans and the transatlantic relationship are absolutely core and central to what we do. it is why we spend a lot of time in discussion with the united states and why i personally spend a lot of time in discussion and dialogue with them and of course ukraine. i hope that you were pleased with my decision to go to the inauguration and then to invite president yanukovych to come to brussels where he spent one of his first days. he was inaugurated on thursday. he was in brussels on monday in order to begin to further and deepen that relationship for the future. mr meyer, you talked about the issues of foreign policy and disarmament and the issues of whether it is appropriate to think in military terms. let me just give you two very quick examples, one of which i have already described which was at atalanta and the importance of having a comprehensive approach to what we do. we have, off the coast of somalia, ships which have been extremely successful this weekend, by the way, with the french navy in capturing pirates who were determined to create havoc in that part of the sea. linked to that is making sure that they are prosecuted and treated properly by reference to our own judicial standards in the countries of that region. linked to that is the development programme that the commission is working on to try and support the economy in somalia so that it improves. linked to that is the work that we are about to start on training people to be able to provide security in the region. in other words, it is a joined-up approach and it is a comprehensive approach. that means you use the tools that you need to be able to address the problems that people face. another example: having been in haiti last week i must pay tribute to the italians that i saw working there. people fresh from the tragedy of aquila, but here we had the navy, we had the fire fighters, we had ngos, we had civilians, we had doctors, we had psychiatrists, we had dentists, we had nurses, all working under the umbrella of the commander, actually, of the ship who had a hospital ship full of people who were being treated from the direct consequences of the earthquake. young people with amputations; children who had terrible burns who were being treated; teams out there to support them. what i am trying to say is that i think you have to think about the comprehensive strategy and approach that we can offer that involves using the means that we have and using them to greatest effect. mr provera, on development cooperation immigration, you make an important point, which is that, if people feel they have no other choices, then they will take risks, often with their lives, to leave the country where they live and were born and want to live. most people want to be able to live in the country in which they have grown up. so the important thing about development, in my view, has always been to be able to support the economic livelihoods of people in order to enable them to be able to stay and live where they wish to live in order to be able to get the educational support, the health support and so on. that is going to be a very big part of what we are doing on the ground, and that helps particularly in states where instability, because of climate change, could be very difficult. finally, mr mölzer, do not be so pessimistic, is what i want to say to you. it is not about operating above the heads of member states. it is about building something uniquely european – not the same as what happens in member states, whether it is germany, italy, france, the uk or wherever. it is not the same. we are building something different that is about long-term security and stability, economic growth on the ground that we can contribute to that is in our interest but that actually is also about the values that we hold dear. and, as for my languages, oui, je peux parler français, mais je ne suis pas très bien en français. ich habe auch zwei jahre in der schule deutsch gelernt, aber ich habe es jetzt vergessen. so i can do the languages, and i will get better and better. i look forward to getting to the point where i can have a real conversation with you in much better german than i can do today.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the albertini and danjean reports, as well as the motion for a resolution on nuclear non-proliferation, show that important decisions must be taken soon and how we must prepare for them. let me pick out a few more examples. i believe that the european union must now play an important role at a crucial stage in preventing iran from developing nuclear weapons and that it must develop a high level of activity in the 5+1 group, particularly in the preparation of the un resolution and the possible expansion of sanctions to prevent the creation of a new nuclear state by non-military means. the dramatic situation in the middle east and the solution of the problems there are directly or indirectly linked to this. mrs ashton, thank you for your trip to kiev and your discussions with president yanukovych. it will be crucial that we succeed in strengthening such countries so that they do not make the wrong decisions, and that it is clear that a customs union with russia and a free trade area with the european union are not compatible with each other, and that the advantages are made clear. let me add one more thing. we will, unlike some foreign and defence ministers, have the patience to build a sensible foreign service with them. we want that foreign service. he must be successful. it is a condition for us to speak with one voice. it would be wrong to be too hasty and thus make wrong decisions on this matter. we're not on a clock here. we need to come up with something sensible. but it must also be borne in mind that the union has historically been successful where it has applied the community method and has never or rarely been successful where it has acted intergovernmentally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must put in place the appropriate safeguards to ensure the efficiency of the single service, but at the same time also the community policy and, in this context, the rights of the european parliament in terms of budget, budgetary control and discharge, and also the political control rights of the european parliament. we hope to have a good cooperation. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. lady ashton, please! i thank mr danjean for his very good report, in which he shows where we are in the common security and defence policy. it also shows where we disagree. but if parliament adopts this report, it will be in a few specific points further along than the commission and the council, because this report, for example, once again expressly refers positively to the barnier report on european civil protection. it is unfortunate that lady ashton has just refused this again. lady ashton, i regret that one of the few points in your presentation where you said "no" was to this idea of mr barnier's, whereas on most topics you seem to be at the same place as everyone else. the new report and the albertini report also say yes to a union training mission in somalia. we say no to that. we are stumbling into a mission that is neither clear what its added value is compared to what is being done in the region, nor is it clear what wider policy framework it is part of, or whether it contributes anything to national construction in somalia. the chances are extremely high that we're only spending expensive money to train the foot soldiers, who will then soon be passed on to the better-paying warlord. let me make a third point. the report refers to the objective of european strategic autonomy in security and defence policy. i think that's a bit much, because we're eating too much. i do not think any member state is capable of managing the gigantic military expenditure we would need if we were to take the phrase 'strategic autonomy' seriously. i also think it's a strategic blunder. europe must find its role in the web of european and global security, and this role cannot be strategic stand alone. it is therefore better that we agree very sensibly and realistically to improve the capacities and structures which allow us to act more autonomously.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on behalf of my group, the gue/ngl, i would like to say that we are deeply concerned about the evolution of eu foreign policy towards militarisation and increasing interventionist policies. this is a dangerous development. i want to make it very clear that we believe that a military approach to conflict resolution or to the alleged stabilisation of countries or regions is the absolutely wrong way to achieve greater security for the eu and the world. military interventions - afghanistan is a recent example - bring suffering, death and continuing devastation, but no peace or improvement in the situation of the population. the danjean report lists what are known as key threats which pose a challenge to the future security policy of the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. if people in the countries of the south have to flee because they have no more water and food is becoming scarcer, then they become a security problem for europe. that's cynical and inhuman! when states collapse as a result of neoliberal economic policies, they become a security problem. what we need is not more military, what we need is a reversal, an end to the neoliberal orientation of the eu. the european external action service, the european defence agency, the creation of the crisis management and planning directorate and the planned start-up funds to finance military operations are all designed to make the eu a military global player. we consider that attempts to centralize the european external action service are a dangerous and undemocratic development. the eu should take a leading role in demilitarisation and disarmament, particularly in the field of nuclear disarmament. it is necessary to press for the fulfilment of the obligation of the nuclear-weapon states under article 6 of the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, namely complete disarmament. this was a key promise, which led many nations to sign the nuclear nonproliferation treaty, thus permanently renouncing nuclear weapons. reliable non-aggression guarantees are the best measures to prevent proliferation, otherwise countries threatened with intervention will try to deter such attacks by means of nuclear weapons. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we shall reject the danjean report and have tabled our own resolution on the npt.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. baroness ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the nuclear weapons are not used in the future. we know that this will not happen tomorrow, we have been fighting for this for too long. but perhaps we can get a lot closer to that goal together with president obama and president medvedev. i also welcome the fact that the german government intends to demand in its coalition agreement that us nuclear weapons be withdrawn from germany. that would be a clear sign. we also welcome the fact that the secretary-general of nato is to lead a comprehensive debate on how to move closer to the overall goal of a world free of nuclear weapons, without having to neglect security interests. that would also be a decisive step forward. i believe, lady ashton, that you, along with a well-structured foreign service, can do a great deal. i am quite hopeful about that, and in view of some of the comments which have been made here - particularly by a so-called parliamentary group from the united kingdom - i must say that the quality of the house has suffered a great deal.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today you're sitting on the other side. if you do it every month, i can live with it. the commission has already made a number of important recommendations. we want you to be at the head of a foreign service where you, as a colleague said, always wear both hats. these two hats should be the only duplication, but we don't need that with the structures. the maintenance of the community method must be ensured, not only through the budget and the control of the ep. the new service must not become the exclusive plaything of foreign ministers who are offended that they now have to stay out of the european council. this applies also to the recruitment of staff and the appointment of key posts. the danjean report is a report which i would like to express my full support for the rapporteur's line. on the subject of the permanent operating centre, i have noted, as has mr van orden, that lady ashton has moved on this issue since her hearing, although in my view in the right direction. you've gone from rejection to a phase of testing. i still think that if we are going to have civil and military operations planning fully integrated in the foreign service, then it makes sense to have it done with our own operational headquarters. as regards the proposal by our green colleagues to set up a directorate-general for peacebuilding, i believe, unlike my colleagues on the far left, that the whole eu project, including our foreign trade, is a single peacebuilding project. so i don't know if we should limit this to one department.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to propose that we vote on this motion as amended. i read out what it is to be called: 'calls on the high representative/vice-president of the commission, the council and the member states to overcome the imbalance between civilian and military planning capabilities', and delete the rest, because the rest has already been included in the text.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has clearly spoken out in favour of cutting red tape by exempting micro-enterprises from the obligation to draw up annual accounts. with an eu-wide relief of some eur 6.3 billion, we are also providing a tangible boost to the growth of european smes. since the member states can decide individually on the exemption from the obligation to keep accounts, i expect as many countries as possible, especially germany, to make use of this possibility. this scheme not only saves the companies concerned time and costs of around eur 2 000 per company, but it is also a very good example of how europe is more citizen-friendly than many people think. it would be nice if many more examples in this house could follow this example.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fdp in the european parliament voted today against the resolution of several groups on the implementation of the recommendations of the goldstone report. we cannot accept a report whose mandate was already highly controversial - not a single member state of the european union had voted for it. we cannot agree with a report which equates democratic israel with a group officially designated by the eu as a terrorist organisation and a report which does not take adequate account of the deeper causes of the conflict. our voting behaviour does not mean that we are opposed to an inquiry into the events surrounding operation cast lead. the opposite is true. yes, israel should thoroughly investigate all aspects, and if there have been violations of law, they must be punished. our voting behaviour does not mean that we approve of the policies of the government of the state of israel in the peace process. we have welcomed the signs of a return to talks between israel and the palestinians, albeit indirectly at first. vice president biden's visit also shows that the obama administration is serious about its efforts to achieve lasting peace in the region. and she has our support. the fact that during his visit to the west bank, biden is allowed to build more settlements - a measure that not only the palestinians rightly criticize - makes biden's bullying by israel all the more incomprehensible.
in writing. − agriculture is an important contributor to europe's future success, as set out in the eu 2020 strategy. the european agricultural policy is of particular importance for sustainable growth and employment and for climate change, as it plays an indispensable role in preserving jobs in rural and peri-urban areas. it should also be borne in mind that agriculture provides 500 million europeans with high-quality food, 40 million jobs and an annual turnover of some eur 1.3 trillion. the production of renewable energy creates additional jobs and helps to reduce co2 emissions and dependence on fossil raw materials. agriculture is innovative, value-adding and the real source of sustainable regional economic cycles. the european agricultural policy must therefore be given even more attention in the context of this new strategy.
in writing. − i am fully aware that international nuclear disarmament, and therefore the strengthening of the npt and its ratification by all states, are of vital importance and that every effort should be made to implement the treaty in all its aspects. to ensure effective multilateral efforts, they must be set within a well-developed vision of achieving a nuclear-weapon-free world at the earliest date possible. we must insist on the commitment of the nuclear weapons states under article vi of the npt to disarm completely, as it was a key promise and so many countries have signed the npt and thus forego nuclear weapons permanently. we oppose the phrase in this joint resolution (recital g): ‘... making use of all instruments at its disposal to prevent...’. i warn, in particular regarding iran, that any military activity to prevent proliferation is completely counterproductive and highly dangerous. i am convinced that the best way to deal with the problem of proliferation would be to abandon atomic energy once and for all, as its civilian use bears great dangers on its own and, moreover, it cannot be excluded with sufficient certainty that civilian nuclear technology will not be used for military purposes.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i welcome very much the opportunity to discuss with you what i believe is an evolving arctic policy in the european union. it is a serious issue of growing political importance and i believe we have to treat it as such. in the aftermath of the copenhagen negotiations it is right that we pay increasing attention to that part of the world which has been witnessing the most tangible effects of climate change. scientific evidence shows that the ice caps lost more than half of their thickness over the last decade. other environmental changes are also having a growing impact on the arctic’s people, biodiversity and landscape, both on land and at sea. like other international actors, we have been increasingly active on arctic issues. as you know, the commission published its arctic communication in late 2008, which was welcomed by the council, and that was followed in december 2009 by extensive conclusions on arctic issues. i believe this represents another step in the process to gradually building up a coherent, comprehensive arctic policy. as you know, the commission has been asked to prepare a follow-up report in june 2011, and that will be another opportunity to further develop our thinking together. all this work is in progress, and that is why i am very eager today to hear the views of members of this house. in this context the commission appreciated your resolution on arctic governance of october 2008, which provided good impetus in the last stages of the commission’s drafting of the communication. we seek support from parliament for our efforts to ensure the european union is recognised as a responsible and respected player in the arctic. our geographical position and our ongoing programmes in the arctic are our starting point, but we want to develop this further. there are three main areas for the work which i would like to mention very briefly. first we want to contribute to the protection of the arctic region including its population. the arctic’s ecosystem is very fragile and therefore needs maximum protection and safeguards. at the same time, because of climate change, the resources of the arctic are becoming increasingly accessible. that offers opportunities, but must be handled with great care. we want to ensure our citizens and companies are treated fairly, including in the areas of transport and natural resources, and that needs to be done in a very deliberate and careful manner with appropriate environmental safeguards. both objectives can and should be developed jointly by eu institutions and member states, especially the three arctic member states. all should continue to work closely together with other arctic stakeholders. our third objective is to contribute to robust and enhanced governance arrangements to handle the multiple challenges that affect the arctic region. that includes the implementation of existing agreements, frameworks and arrangements, including the arctic council, and full respect for the un convention on the law of the seas. but where relevant, we should take a careful look at whether and how these arrangements could be complemented and developed further. to be credible, we should recognise that the arctic region is radically different from the antarctic and this recognition should guide our policy response. unlike the antarctic, which is a vast and inhabited continent surrounded by an ocean, the arctic is a maritime space surrounded by land which has been inhabited by people for thousands of years and which belongs to sovereign countries. therefore proposals to replicate the antarctic treaty in the arctic region would be unrealistic, and they would probably also be detrimental to the proactive role that we aim to develop. as you know, this is also the view of the council. we very much want to maintain close cooperation with the european parliament as we pursue our common goals of gradually building up an eu arctic policy and we must work together with the arctic states and the international community to find the most effective way of preserving and protecting the arctic for future generations.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not madam vice president! thank you for opening the debate on this subject. i think it's an important issue. those who are taking part in the debate today will share this view, and i believe that we will also be able to reach a very broad consensus in the debate. i am the rapporteur for a report which is still to be drawn up on this subject and i shall be happy to work closely with all those involved. you mentioned some key words. environmental protection is very important. you mentioned the people who live there, the resources below sea level, but also the fisheries. another key word is shipping, the transportation routes that are opening up further because of climate change, the northwest passage and the northeast passage. we have at least two global players on the ground, the united states and russia, in addition to our three arctic member states, but also a major partner - canada. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because when it comes to raw materials, in particular, we have a potential for cooperation, but if we don't do it right, we also have a potential for conflict. the eu will certainly not plant its flag on the seabed as russia has done. but we should certainly seek dialogue with these parties so that we can reach a consensus on what is important for the region, in terms of environmental protection, the exploitation of resources and the rights of the people who live there.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome this discussion and i am also pleased that you, lady ashton, are taking part in it. you talked about it, about protecting the region and the people. i'm sure that's right. but it is not just the protection we are seeking from the outside that is at stake, especially with regard to the indigenous peoples of this region, but respect for their right to self-determination. that must be a very important principle in arctic policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment in the region. now, i know that many of you in this discussion are opposed to the idea of a moratorium. perhaps you had this in mind, mrs ashton, when you said 'the arctic is very different from the antarctic'. but even if we reject this, we must answer the question - and not only lyrically, but practically - of how to protect the particularly sensitive areas of this region effectively, in accordance with the precautionary principle. we must not allow the end of the battle cry 'we need the gas, we need the fish' to override all the precautionary principles in shortsighted economics. i would also like to add to what mr gahler said. you spoke of the potential for conflict. that is undoubtedly true. we are already seeing that these discussions are not only shaped by the will to be together, otherwise canada and russia would not have tried to block the eu's observer status in the arctic council. now the arctic council itself is a soft-law organization with no fixed budget, no fixed staff. this will not be enough as a governance structure. but we also have to make sure that when we think about new governance structures - and this is how i understood you, mrs ashton - we are inclusive and we take note of the fact that other organisations want to be involved.
i have to say, madam president, in the context of the climate change debate, there is now a heightened debate about the arctic as a shipping water with the potential to shorten trade routes and thereby also consume less fuel - this is also a side issue - with the question of whether and how resources from oil to gas are available and how they should be used. fishing was also discussed. and then there was, and of course there is, a very symbolic value to this debate, which became clear when russia raised its flag - not quite properly - on the seabed. the other countries are also beginning to express their claims more strongly. in this respect, i am very grateful to the high representative for taking up this issue and giving it priority. i believe that what has been discussed so far in the european parliament, but also in the commission, for example in the 2008 proposal just described, is far too defensive. i think that we must be open to the question, both in terms of the question raised by many of our colleagues here: the protection of the environment, the protection of the people who live there, but also in terms of the question being tackled with caution and honestly discussed: are there possibilities in this? we have already dealt with this issue very carefully and made some initial points in connection with an oil report in 2008. when we talk about resources, when we talk about energy supply, we need diversification, new sources of supply, then we also need to discuss: is there a way to use these sources without endangering the environment and nature? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. if we are talking about the further development of technology, then in all areas. i am grateful that this debate is taking place. i hope it will be conducted objectively and openly.
i have to say, madam president, it is about us as the european union having a clear strategy and preventing a gold or gem rush. europe must be actively involved in this. here europe can show its strength as a partner by speaking with one voice. it is about shipping, above and below the water, about fisheries, about resources in the form of primary energy sources and raw materials. we need to have viable and reliable agreements here, together with the other partners in the arctic. we need cooperation instead of confrontation. we need dialogue on environmental protection to preserve natural resources and nature. we need dialogue on animal welfare to preserve biodiversity, and we need protection and respect for the inhabitants and their human rights. if we manage resources positively together with our partners in the arctic, we will have the chance to break new ground politically and it will also be a first taste of our common foreign policy, where we can prove that we as europeans have common goals.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to emphasize once again that, in addition to the already important aspects of the environment and energy, the question of shipping routes also plays a very special role. because since traditional shipping routes have been hijacked, since captains and crews have been put in danger here, since these routes are really unsafe, ship owners have been looking for new ways. in my home town of hamburg, this debate is very important. i would very much encourage you to continue along this path in this discussion on the eu arctic.
i have to say, madam president, we should make a concrete offer to the people of cuba, but also to the regime. instead of the political status quo, we are funding a transition to democracy in cuba. the first step must be the release of all political prisoners. the united states should also end its sanctions, which have helped to cement the regime rather than overthrow it. the next step was for a round table of representatives of the regime and the cuban-based civil rights movement to work out a timetable for the transition to democracy and for democratic elections. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. we as the eu and as member states should support this process in the same way as we have done in central europe. this helps the cubans, it stabilizes the region, and it also makes possible a new kind of relationship with the united states that is not a repetition of the pre-castro era.
i have to say, madam president, it is always relatively easy for us to talk about this when human rights violations are being committed elsewhere and people are also dying for their beliefs. you have to realize that. mr zapata has indeed lost his life as a result of the hunger strike, and there are other prisoners who have been inspired to join the hunger strike. we must therefore think carefully about how we can proceed in a targeted manner. it has been said, for one thing, that we should not talk to cuba at all because it is not a regime that we accept. secondly - and this, mr ferreira, is not at all what i think is good - the view was expressed that there is hypocrisy here and that the cubans should be allowed to make their own political decisions. i think the freedom to make political decisions really ends where human rights are violated and people die. then we must do something in the european parliament. it is therefore entirely appropriate to discuss in detail the specific proposals that have been put forward - and more recently some new suggestions from mr gahler - and to consider what we can do to intervene in human rights violations all over the world and to help people in the world.
acting president of the council. - madam president, mrs harkin, as you know, the treaty of lisbon establishes a change in the legal bases of european law - regulations and directives - by bringing together in the so-called community pillar what were formerly three different pillars, namely the community pillar, foreign and security policy, and justice and home affairs. this has been brought together in a single pillar, in a single legal personality, and that means that, also in the field of foreign policy or in the more specific field of justice - civil and criminal judicial cooperation - or police cooperation, the normal, traditional community method is introduced, that is, a greater presence of the commission and a greater presence, also, of the european parliament and the luxembourg court of justice. in the field of criminal cooperation, there is one possibility still open, namely that a quarter of the governments of the european union can take initiatives in this field. that is what has happened with the directive on gender-based violence: there have already been twelve governments who have put forward an initiative on which the council and the european parliament will have to take a final decision, because it is a matter of co-decision. a directive which is already in force and which responds to the possibility provided for in the treaty for governments to take such an initiative and which has a legal basis, in our view, which is correct and appropriate, because it is a matter of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we are dealing with criminal acts, acts which involve ill-treatment and violence against a person, which is a criminal act in all the countries of the union. and so it is about protecting the victims of that crime. this has its legal basis in criminal cooperation and we believe that it is perfectly possible, therefore - as the council's legal services have already said - that it will be developed through this legal text which will have to be examined and debated in this house. i hope that it will be done quickly, because i think that is what millions of women and men in the european union are waiting for: they are waiting for the protection that - as you said very well - must now be transferred from the bedroom to the national level, and also to the european level. it has to be on the european agenda. and that is the aim of the initiative put forward by 12 governments of the european union.
acting president of the council. - madam president, mr martin, of course the underlying philosophy behind this initiative - which is supported by the european parliament, in terms of regulation, in this case, through legal channels, through the most effective channels available, the judicial channels in a state of law - is what has been very well called 'zero tolerance' towards gender-based violence, and it has to do with a view of gender-based violence as something that is very deeply embedded, even culturally, for centuries in the social structures of our society. that is why it is important to give a global approach, a comprehensive approach to the fight against gender-based violence so that it is effective, because it is a violence that is very difficult to eradicate, profoundly difficult to eradicate, and that is why, systematically, despite the progress that has been made in the fight against such violence at the national level, we continue to endure this scourge that, in many cases, is only the tip of the iceberg, because a small percentage of the violence that actually occurs is reported, because it continues to exist. that is why we need to give a comprehensive and comprehensive treatment, using all the legal tools that are available, raising awareness in the media, making the educational systems take this problem very seriously. the employment, social policy, health and consumers council (epsco) last monday approved this comprehensive and global approach, that is, this 'zero tolerance' in the fight against gender-based violence. as regards the question the honourable member has asked me about the extension of violence to children and the elderly, i believe that we are dealing with violence against the vulnerable, against the most vulnerable, with the saying that 'the big fish eats the small fish', a kind of saying that is found in many of our countries. in my case, of course, it is manifested in this violence, this violence which has to do with the vulnerability of those who are in that situation of greatest weakness and which in turn demonstrates and expresses the cowardice of those who exercise violence against the most vulnerable, who are the woman, who are the child, who are the elderly. the council and the european parliament have asked the european commission to consider the possibility of an initiative for a european year to combat violence against children, young people and women. this is set out in the so-called daphne iii programme. it is a manifestation of the need, mr president, that this protection should be extended to all vulnerable people, and among those vulnerable people there are undoubtedly children and the elderly, the two groups to which you have referred.
acting president of the council. - madam president, mr posselt, the strategy for the danube region is one of the elements of the programme of the trio of presidencies of spain, belgium and hungary. as you can imagine, this strategy was introduced into the programme at the initiative of hungary. the three countries are therefore committed to helping to develop this european union strategy for the danube region and, in this regard, the european council last june urged the commission to present it before the end of this year. we are waiting for that to happen from the commission. and the commission has launched a public consultation. a public consultation which will last until march this year and then, studying the results of this public consultation, the commission will propose the strategy which, hopefully, can be formally adopted in december this year in the form of a commission communication. we must wait for that communication to take place. in any case, i would like to point out that there was an important meeting on 25 february in budapest with the representative governments of austria, bulgaria, the czech republic, germany, hungary, romania, slovakia and slovenia, where progress was made on possible contents of this strategy, and where important conclusions were adopted, setting out what the essential elements of this future strategy should be. it is a question of pooling the energies of these countries, within the european union and with the european union's backing, also using, but in a financially neutral way, european funds, so that important objectives of progress and economic, social and tourist development are achieved. we therefore 'again' expect a communication from the commission to this effect once that consultation has been concluded and, from that point on, the council will adopt a position as soon as it has that commission communication in its hands.
i thank you, mr minister, for your good and detailed reply. i just have two quick requests. firstly, how far does the danube strategy cover transport and culture? i believe that both are particularly important in crossborder cooperation. secondly, is there a definitive list of countries that will be part of it, or is that still to be decided because parliament has proposed enlargement?
acting president of the council. - madam president, i must reiterate that we are facing a problem where i believe that for the first time, in such an ambitious way, there is an intention to have a european strategy on this. the fight against poverty, against social exclusion and, in particular, for the active inclusion of the longterm unemployed and the elderly, that is, we are returning to the old concept of the most vulnerable. firstly, in the context of the economic crisis we are experiencing, the european union has developed a coordinated policy, an immediate short-term shock treatment which has involved the injection of public money into the economic system and which has triggered what economists call automatic stabilizers, that is, the social protection provided for in the systems of the so-called welfare states. it has caused a reaction which has had at least a palliative effect on those who have become unemployed and for whom it is difficult, at least in the short term, to find a job. in other words, there has been a reaction which should be taken into account, because it is an existing, current, immediate, short-term reaction on the part of the european union. and in addition, the european union is proposing a strategy to combat this poverty, the result of long-term unemployment, on the basis of training, specialisation, retraining or education - which does not end when a person is young - to create the conditions for employability. this is a very important aspect of the eu 2020 strategy to which i referred earlier and which was reflected in the epsco conclusions of that meeting, which has been mentioned so many times here, and which took place this very week. in other words, a european strategy, included in the objectives to which the union will give the highest priority, such as those set out in the eu 2020 strategy. one of these quantified objectives - which we shall see if they are approved on 25 and 26 march at the european council, which has to examine the commission's communication and approve these quantified objectives if necessary - is the reduction of the number of people at risk of poverty by 25%. we should remember that europe has 80 million people at risk of poverty; reducing that figure by 20 million and increasing the rate of the active population are medium-term objectives which are part of this strategy and which therefore form part of a set of coordinated european strategies. because the key to the end, ladies and gentlemen, is the coordination of our employment and social policies. the lisbon treaty makes it quite clear: we must coordinate our employment and social policies. and that is what the european union, burdened by the crisis, is beginning to do. that is the great way to respond to this situation, using, of course, the tools we have in the european union, which are elements of the european union, such as the internal market or the european structural funds.
acting president of the council. - madam president, the first question, on retired property owners in spain, is very similar to another that has been put to me before, and the answer is also very similar to the one i have given before. we are dealing with a question which concerns the application of internal legislation in a member state, and i have to refer to that; i cannot speak on behalf of the council on this question which has its judicial remit within a member state. if it had happened in any other member state, i am sure it would have been the same: through the internal judicial channels. as regards the question of vulnerable people, i fully agree with the emphasis on those two groups to which the honourable member has referred. we are also at a time when there is another tool that can be used: the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in so far as it concerns the rights of particularly vulnerable people, whether elderly or disabled, to their dignity and to their participation in social and cultural life, and in any case, it concerns their protection, the protection of their physical dignity and of their mental integrity against degrading or inhuman treatment. the european union has developed a number of instruments to combat this situation, including a detailed study of the situation. i would like to refer to an interesting result of the 2007 eurobarometer, according to which half of europeans think that the elderly, the most vulnerable people, are treated badly, even abused in the way their needs are treated, and that is what almost half of europeans think; they think that the treatment society gives to these people is negative, precisely in terms of vulnerability. the european states and the european union have applied the so-called 'open method of coordination' to exchange experiences between member states on this issue. in this respect, it must also be said that in some cases we are dealing with issues which have their vehicle in national legislation. these are matters of national competence and therefore have to be dealt with by the member states, inter alia, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. the european union can accompany these policies, it cannot replace them altogether, it can accompany them, but i think this is also something that has to do with the social dimension already mentioned. i would like to return to this, because it seems important to me, to the social dimension of the strategy for growth and job creation, which is very strongly expressed in the document presented by the commission and which will be discussed by the heads of state and government. i think that the problems you refer to, which were not so emphasized in the previous strategy, must be included in this social dimension. i think that in the future - since we are living through a crisis that produces it - we have to take very much into account the social impact of the economic crisis.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i do not want to abuse my position as president-in-office of the council to defend a particular government or a particular national legislation. i do not want to abuse this position, because i am sure i would be criticised for using this court to defend the action of a particular state or a central or regional government of a particular country. you know perfectly well that this is a matter which is being dealt with at national level and which has its roots at national level. and not only spain, the european countries, the 27 countries that are in the european union are states of law, all of them, which have the appropriate judicial channels to clarify this type of alleged abuses. these judicial channels operate in all european countries and i am sure that - i do not want to refer only to the spanish case - other european countries where there are also legal abuses or infringements have the channels of the rule of law to be able to solve them. and that's what happens in all the european countries where this happens. i do not want to avoid answering, nor do i want to simply say that i am not answering, but you know very well that if you use the parliamentary channel to be able to ask a question, i may not want to use my position as president of the council for a matter which is internal to a member country of the union.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i understand that there are two questions, one of which concerns visas, the visa requirement for russian and european citizens, and the other concerns relations between the european union and russia following the stockholm summit and russia's accession to the world trade organisation. i understand that those are the two questions, madam president. as regards visas, i would remind you that in 2003 the council adopted two regulations establishing a specific transit document and a facilitated rail transit document. three years later, the commission concluded that the entry into force of the scheme was proceeding smoothly and that both partners were satisfied. from a long-term perspective - we are talking about the kaliningrad region in relation to the rest of the russian federation - the so-called facilitated transit regime would depend on the future development of agreements on visa policies between the european union and the russian federation. in a joint statement following the meeting of the eu-russia partnership permanent council on justice and home affairs on 2 december last year, the participants decided to discuss possible amendments to the european community's agreement with russia on visa facilitation to make travel more accessible for european and russian citizens, and in particular for residents of the kaliningrad region. in turn, under the same joint declaration, the european union and russia expected to negotiate and conclude local border traffic agreements between russia and neighbouring eu member states that might be interested. in this context, regulation (ec) no 1931/2006 of the european parliament and of the council laying down rules concerning minor border traffic at the external land borders of the member states and amending the provisions of the schengen convention authorises member states to conclude bilateral agreements with neighbouring third countries in order to implement the local border traffic regime. the negotiation of such agreements is, in this case, a matter for the member states concerned and the russian federation. the council notes, however, that negotiations are also under way between lithuania and russia and between poland and russia. the council notes that the european parliament has been asked to give a clear signal to the european union that it is ready to take action in the field of human rights and democracy. there is always, of course, the possibility that there may be complex difficulties in those relations, there may also be discrepancies, but the european union's relationship with russia is broad, it is multifaceted, we are linked by growing economic and trade ties, a high degree - it must be acknowledged - of interdependence in the field of energy, common interests in other areas which have to do with problems that go even beyond our respective countries, and challenges, even of a global nature, which we have to face and which we should face as jointly as possible. it will therefore always be beneficial for us to look for opportunities to strengthen our relations with russia, while at the same time remaining firm in our principles and the values on which the european union is founded. the european union supports russia's accession to the world trade organisation, but it is up to russia to take the steps to make progress. as regards the new agreement between the european union and russia, both sides agree that it would be good to have a new and comprehensive agreement. the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and russia, which was negotiated in the 1990s, is out of date in many respects, many things have happened, many things have changed since the 1990s, and we need to make progress towards that new agreement in which we are ambitious. we have set the bar high and we want to cover, if possible, all areas of the eu-russia relationship. there has been progress in certain areas of that negotiation. others are slower, such as trade and investment, and in any case it is very important for us that there are strong clauses, strong agreements with russia on trade, investment and energy. as regards the free trade regime, we agree that a free trade agreement should be negotiated once russia has become, in due course, if that happens, a member of the world trade organisation. as far as visa liberalization is concerned, it is a matter of major political importance, a matter which affects the citizens of russia and the european union very directly, and in this area i think we share the intention that there should be visa facilitation, as soon as it can be obtained. the ideal would be even visa liberalization, i.e. the abolition of the visa requirement, but of course much remains to be done in this respect and, in addition, the values at stake, which have to do with security, must be balanced and, moreover, it must always be done on the basis of reciprocity. as for ukraine, moldova and georgia, each of these countries has a particular situation in terms of visa policy and therefore we cannot predict at this stage how far these three countries will go compared to the visa dialogue we have with russia.
i would like to return to the two most critical points. first: democracy, the rule of law, human rights. these are the main shortcomings. how much dialogue is there on these critical issues? we feel that the development here is going backwards, not forwards. the second point is energy security. what is the concrete situation with regard to the energy negotiations?
a writer. - the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; this question concerns the fact that in 2007 the commission presented a concept to promote low-carbon energy technologies so that they can be rapidly applied. it proposed very concrete measures. european industrial initiatives, in particular in the fields of wind, solar, bioenergy, carbon capture and storage (ccs), electricity grids and nuclear fission, the creation of a european energy research alliance, the sustainable transformation of european energy infrastructure networks, continuously updated european energy technology systems and the establishment of a steering committee on strategic energy technologies. however, a crucial question remained open at the time, namely the question of funding. the seventh framework programme for research provides eur 886 million a year for energy research. but it is clear to everyone that this is not enough. in 2009, the commission presented its communication on the financing of low-carbon energy technologies, which identified the need to triple funding for energy research over the next decade. 50 billion euros would have to be invested after that. this communication sets out how money should be allocated to the main low-carbon technologies to help europe move from a heavy reliance on fossil fuels to a more carbon-reduced one. the final plan includes €6 billion for wind energy research, which the commission says could produce a fifth of eu electricity by 2020, €16 billion for solar energy to develop new photovoltaic concepts and a large industrial concentration of solar power plants, €9 billion for bioenergy research, which could cover 14% of the eu's energy needs. to integrate renewable energy into the energy market, electricity grids would receive €2 billion, so that half of the grid could be operated using a smart grid principle. apart from renewable energy, €13 billion is earmarked for up to 12 projects in the field of carbon capture and storage, while nuclear research would receive €7 billion. the proposal also provides for a further €11 billion for the 'smart cities' programme to help provide the necessary answers. the commission pointed out at the time that public-private partnerships were the most credible way of financing energy research, but could not explain precisely how the financial burden should then be shared between the two sides. at present, the energy research division is 70% private and 30% public, except for nuclear research. the eu argues that a significant increase in public funding is necessary. the commission has argued that public funding should play a major role in projects involving higher risks. to optimise the level of intervention, it encourages the use of eu programmes, particularly where there is clear added value at eu level, for example where programmes are too expensive for individual member states. at present, 80% of public investment in non-nuclear energy research is financed at national level. however, this communication also leaves open the question of where the money will come from. the commission expects an additional requirement of eur 75 to 80 billion. that is why we in our committee have concentrated on getting a little more clarity on some of the questions in this area of financing. i would like to recall the questions. firstly, how does the commission intend to set its priorities for the 2010-2020 roadmap to support the financing of low-carbon technologies? when will the appropriate industrial policy initiatives be launched? secondly, how does the commission intend to make additional funds available from the eu budget? how does the commission ensure that funds are actually being channelled in the run-up to the eighth framework programme? will the commission ensure that the budgetary framework established for the various industrial initiatives is respected? and last but not least, how does the commission - and this is of course always the council - intend to make available additional funds from the eu budget to finance technological options other than those mentioned in the communication, including storage technologies, tidal energy, etc. i don't have to read all the questions. we have put these questions to the house and we are asking the council and the commission to answer them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in principle, we all agree that we welcome the set plan. we agree on a great deal of the content. we have two problems. on the one hand, we will not be able to put joint pressure on the member states and the commission if we continue to have an ideological debate which is always about nuclear energy. that is the crux of today's votes. we have found a compromise on the set plan, and the compromise is that we have said what criteria we want to promote, only the criteria are clearly defined, namely sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply. we have said that we want to achieve open technology, etc., and we are again having an ideological debate on nuclear power, which is possible, but which does not make sense in the set plan. i agree with you on the question: what can the set plan achieve? the question is whether the member states are prepared to adopt a coherent approach to energy policy. the council has today made a number of general points. the problem is not so much what we say in the set plan, but how the various research funds, the innovation funds, the funds from the set plan, the question of demonstration plants, the question of transposing european directives into national law - how all this works together. we are at a point now where we must say quite clearly that we can still adopt a set plan and a set plan, but what we need now are concrete steps. we should increase the pressure on the commission and the member states to make something happen in the implementation.
i have to say, madam president, i'll keep my question short. we have had some very good discussions in the political groups, and they are also justified, on ideological questions relating to technology. let us put a question together for the council and the commission to answer. we've been discussing the set plan for a long time. what are the instruments to implement it? what are the time perspectives? what are the commitments of the member states?
the next item is the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (article 122 of the ec treaty), starting with the gilad shalit case (see minutes). i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks.
member of the commission. − mr president, the case of the abducted israeli soldier, gilad shalit, is of great concern to the european union. my former colleague commissioner ferrero-waldner called urgently for mr shalit’s release in this very house already on 5 july 2006, less than two weeks after his capture. over the years and on a number of occasions, including at the latest association council with israel last june and in the foreign affairs council conclusions of december 2009, the eu has consistently called on those holding mr shalit to release him without delay. therefore we join with today’s parliament motions calling for his release. it is our opinion, in line with the assessment of many human rights organisations, that the terms and conditions of mr shalit’s detention are contrary to international humanitarian law. therefore we urge his captors to respect such obligations and in particular to allow delegates of the international committee of the red cross to visit him. finally, we are aware that mediation activities have been ongoing, aimed at the release of gilad shalit. we encourage all efforts made in this direction and we express our hope that they will soon be successful. i will also personally pass on a clear message from you to my colleague cathy ashton. of course our thoughts are with the family of gilad shalit. i know that his father has been in this house this week and i understand that he is at this very moment sitting here with us. (applause)i want to reassure him that our thoughts and efforts are with him and, of course, with all the others who are suffering the consequences of this long lasting conflict. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on seven. motions for resolutions on the escalation of violence in mexico.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the images of brutal street violence in the so-called drug war in mexico regularly reach us through the mass media. the hundredfold murders of women, mostly female workers in the north of the country, have made headlines and have given rise to the term femicide. the european parliament has submitted its own report on this subject. despite the knowledge of the serious increase in serious human rights violations, the mexican government appears unable or unwilling to act decisively. the reference to the need for tough action against drug dealers is no substitute for consistent government action. the strong expansion of military presence and power, the jurisdiction of military courts for crimes committed by soldiers, the almost complete impunity - these are the real causes of the escalating violence in the country. even mexico's national human rights commission has repeatedly documented the rise in violent crimes by the military. the government itself does not want to see this. she's always covering up crimes. so yesterday it was reported in the media that the department of defense allegedly distributed a lot of money to relatives of victims of violence to buy their silence. the perpetrators are soldiers. the eu must address the fight against impunity in all its relations with mexico. given the gravity of human rights violations, it is absolutely necessary that the eu does not renew the global compact with mexico. not until there is a substantial improvement in the human rights situation in the country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we often deal with dictatorships here. mexico is not a dictatorship, but a democracy. we deal with individual cases of serious human rights violations. the problem is that this great democracy, which is our strategic partner, has been suffering for decades from a serious, perhaps even fatal, disease. that's why it's necessary to have the right therapy and the right doctor. president calderón and his cronies are that doctor. that doesn't mean they can and should use any therapy, but we have to support them. and that is why i think paragraph 12 of the resolution is so important, in which we say that we want to use our financial instrument more intensively to strengthen the governance, the rule of law and the structures of the rule of law against state decay, against organised crime, against the impunity that has been rightly criticised. but we can't do that by freezing our contacts or cutting them off, but by strengthening them.
member of the commission. − mr president, an unprecedented rise in violence has created, within the country, a sense of deep insecurity amongst the population. the commission is of course highly concerned at this situation. we know that the mexican authorities are taking this seriously and have put in place a lot of measures to address the problem. president calderón’s war on organised crime is its main priority. apart from deploying a number of military across the country to fight organised crime, mexico is making a tremendous effort to strengthen law enforcement and the judicial system. in august 2008, a package of security measures was adopted which aims at reorganising the mexican law enforcement and justice system. the justice reform passed by the mexican congress in 2008 has the potential to address the main systemic problems facing criminal justice in mexico, although we are aware that the implementation of this reform will require a long-term commitment. mexico is also making a very serious effort to respond to the concerns over human rights abuses, in particular the impact of organised crime groups and vested interests of freedom of the media and freedom of expression, which have been brought to the attention of the eu by civil society organisations. in this connection, the mexican government established a special prosecutor for crimes committed against journalists in 2006. it is making noticeable efforts in addressing other shortcomings, as seen in the approval of a federal law to eradicate violence against women and the appointment of a special prosecutor on this issue, and in the new federal law to combat trafficking in human beings. as a member of the united nations human rights council, mexico pledged to adopt a state policy on human rights and to remain open at international level with regard to human rights. the issue of the protection of human rights in the framework of the fight against organised crime and the integrity of human rights defenders are reflected in the recommendations accepted by mexico as a result of its participation in the un universal periodic review. mexico has shown interest and readiness in discussing with the european union all these issues, most recently during the session of the eu-mexico joint committee held in brussels on 26-27 november 2009. indeed, this area constitutes the subject of dedicated cooperation. on 3-4 december 2009, the eu and mexico jointly organised an international seminar in cancún on ‘the legitimate use of force and the protection of human rights’. the seminar provided a venue to hold expert consultations on a draft policy document on the human rights accountability of local police forces. the draft policy document was presented to the quintana roo local congress in the aftermath of the seminar. this initiative is complementary to the recently adopted federal law on the reform of the judiciary system and could be replicated by other federal states. we believe that the eu-mexico strategic partnership provides the best framework for the eu to support mexico in the areas of public security and the rule of law. the strategic partnership executive document currently under negotiation foresees the establishment of a formal eu-mexico policy dialogue on security issues, as well as increased cooperation with relevant eu agencies such as cepol, europol, eurojust and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda). from the commission side, we are already supporting a project from 2004-2007 to strengthen the administration of justice in mexico. further cooperation in the field is foreseen for the period 2011-2013. in conclusion, it is clear that mexico is facing important challenges in the areas of public security and respect for human rights. it is not easy and the situation is far from ideal, but it is also fair to say that it is showing willingness and determination to ensure the compatibility of an effective public security policy with respect for human rights. we will continue to support mexico in its efforts.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on five subjects. motions for resolutions on south korea death penalty declared legal.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is unfortunate that many countries in the world today still practice or permit this inhuman form of punishment of serious criminals. in my opinion, no human being has the right to decide on the life or death of another human being, whether at the beginning or the end of life, and especially when it comes to punishing a crime. this barbaric punishment of execution has no place in the world today! the unforgettable, the great pope john paul ii, above all, has pointed out that reparation, the chance for reconciliation, must be possible. that's not possible with an irreversible crime like capital punishment. we therefore call on our south korean colleagues, as the political groups, to take up this issue in their parliament and to join us europeans in fighting for the abolition of the death penalty as a sign of humanity. i would ask all members to support this joint motion for a resolution unanimously.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the abolition of the death penalty is a very successful part of european foreign policy. this is evident in accession negotiations, in bilateral talks and also within the united nations, where more and more states in the world community are deciding to declare a moratorium or to abolish the death penalty altogether. the republic of korea was until recently one of the countries which no longer applied this degrading and humiliating punishment in practice. today's resolution expresses our concern that, with the decision of the south korean constitutional court that executions are legally compatible with the constitution, a situation has now arisen which makes it possible to re-apply the death penalty. we therefore call on the south korean government to do everything possible to first adopt a legally binding moratorium on executions - there are still over 55 people on death row - and then, as a second step, to pass a law abolishing the death penalty in the south korean parliament. it is very positive that a movement has emerged within south korean society to finally contribute to the abolition of the death penalty through legislation. we should support this movement here.
member of the commission. − mr president, the fight against the death penalty lies at the heart of the eu’s human rights policy. the eu considers that capital punishment is a cruel and inhuman punishment which fails to deter criminal behaviour, while the abolition of capital punishment contributes to the enhancement of human dignity. we have been able to welcome a number of recent positive developments in the fight against the death penalty. in january this year, mongolia announced a moratorium on the death penalty. during 2009 burundi, togo and the us state of new mexico all abolished the death penalty. in 2007 the un general assembly for the first time adopted a resolution calling on states to establish a moratorium on executions with a view to abolishing the death penalty; a further resolution in 2008 reaffirmed this call. in this light, the eu was naturally disappointed at the judgment of the constitutional court of the republic of korea on 25 february – by a split vote of five to four – that the death penalty was in accordance with the provisions of the constitution. we note, however, that this case revolved around the interpretation of the korean constitution; this was not a political decision on retention of the death penalty. we also particularly note the further views expressed by three of the five judges who found that the death penalty was in line with the constitution. judge lee kang-kook and judge min hyung-ki made clear the need to limit the use of the death penalty and to reduce the number of crimes subject to capital punishment, while judge song doo-hwan argued that any decision on the death penalty should be the subject of a public debate and action by the legislature. although the courts continue to pass death sentences, the republic of korea has maintained a moratorium on executions since 1997. there is no indication at present that the judgment of the constitutional court will affect this moratorium. we welcome korea’s determination to maintain the moratorium on the implementation of executions. at the same time, as the un general assembly resolution has noted, a moratorium should be seen not as an end in itself but as a step on the path towards complete abolition. accordingly, the eu urges the korean national assembly to take steps as quickly as possible to abolish the death penalty. the republic of korea has long been a regional leader on human rights issues in asia. abolition of the death penalty would thus only confirm the republic of korea’s commitment to the protection and promotion of human rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.30 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the european summit must and will - that is quite clear - deal with the crisis in greece. the international herald tribune today published an interesting editorial: 'greece has promised to do its homework and to clean up its budget'. the member states of the european union in the euro area have asked the greeks to do this as a condition of solidarity. greece, according to the international herald tribune, has delivered. the member states of the eurozone, and above all the federal republic of germany, which refuses to honour its commitment, are the ones who do not deliver. that's the first point. (applause from the centre) the president of the commission was right to speak of a safety net. it is not a question of putting the money of taxpayers from germany, france, italy or any other country into the coffers of greece. that's not the goal. the aim is to enable greece to borrow money on the international markets, at interest rates like those of other countries. the interest rate is normally between 2.5% and 3%. the speculation caused by the lack of solidarity will make greece pay 6%. in other words, the effects of the greek budgetary consolidation are going into the pockets of speculators on the international financial markets. (applause from the centre) that means plundering the people there. and it is unreasonable, because if this is the case, if the lack of solidarity leads to speculation against a deficit country in the eurozone and even speculation that in the end it is not internal solidarity that comes to fruition, but the international monetary fund that has to intervene, then greece is a prologue, a prologue. then speculation will hit italy, britain and spain next. if we do not want a conflagration, we must show solidarity with greece. solidarity with greece - and this must be said above all to the german chancellor - is therefore an act of economic reasoning and not a service of help that is given just for the sake of it. (applause from the centre) that is why we cannot discharge mr barroso by saying that the international monetary fund should now do this. the commission is the one who has to put forward the proposals on how to achieve a reasonable stabilisation within the eurozone. the commission has put forward good proposals and i think the council should take up the commission's proposals. this does not include calling the international monetary fund. why would i? we are in a position to solve the problem within the eurozone. i am surprised that angela merkel is bringing the international monetary fund into play. the deutsche bundesbank for german conservatives what the vatican is for catholics writes in its monthly report for the month of march: however, a financial contribution by the international monetary fund to the solution of structural problems, such as the direct financing of budget deficits or the financing of bank recapitalisation, is not compatible with its monetary mandate. that's a quote from the german federal bank. the german chancellor says that the international monetary fund should solve this problem, unlike her finance minister. this is the wrong way! what we need now is to send a signal to the international markets: you can speculate all you want, you will not tear the eurozone apart. it is only when that signal is given that this speculation will cease. and what speculation is involved, we must make clear again in the case of credit default swaps, the cds. there is nothing but the game: i take out an insurance policy on my neighbor's house burning down. if my neighbor's house burns down, i get the insurance money. if i'm acting like this, i must have a vested interest in his house burning down. but the st. florian principle - "st. florian, my dear man, spare my house, set fire to others" - is not acceptable in the european union. and that is why solidarity with greece is an act of stabilizing the euro in the eurozone. in the end, you have to decide whether you want european solidarity or whether you want to give in to the table. i do not want to take this personally, but i would ask everyone to take note of the following quote by wolfgang münchau of the financial times germany - not a socialist paper, and this man is not a social democrat either - to listen carefully: "we are in a situation where european needs and german national populism are pitted against each other, let us decide for european needs". (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to remind you again of the short time it took, sometimes almost overnight, to decide that we should help the banks in europe out of the mess they were in when they were in trouble. we are not discussing the conditions for granting this aid today. we have not yet clarified the conditions for repayment and liability, nor the banking supervision. when you think about it and realize that this greek crisis, the euro crisis, is actually a european crisis, and that it has been discussed for weeks, for months, without the europeans being able to give themselves a shake to make the necessary decisions, i think it is just as shameful. as a german member of the european parliament, i am ashamed of my federal government. because today we read that a special summit is being held in brussels, at which, according to mrs merkel's wishes, greece will be decided on what she wants and what will enable her to return from brussels to berlin as a victor, without actually discussing adequate solutions with the others. i find that embarrassing. the boulevard has won, the regular tables have won, and i think that you should think very carefully - and you too, mr langen, in your german delegation - about whether the question of being or not being, solidarity or lack of solidarity in the european union, depends on the poll results that a german party, from which the chancellor comes, currently has to present for the election result in a federal state. i think that this is really too much populism, and it is intolerable that it is not clear to date that the heads of state or government will agree on how the eurozone intends to deal with the crisis in greece at the regular council on thursday and friday. (applause from the centre) i have followed the discussions in germany closely and i was in greece last week and i want to make it clear once again to the citizens of my country, greece and the eu that solidarity is needed here, but that the provision of low-interest loans to greece can only work beyond the day if it is not a one-way street. these days i have spent in greece have shown me that the citizens of greece now have a chance to have a better state. the greek state must use the crisis to make real reforms. we are not doing ourselves any favours if we show solidarity at this point without calling for far more far-reaching reforms than papandreou has so far announced. and as i said, the greeks deserve much better. because i experience this populism so closely in germany and consider it so dangerous, i would like to justify this from another perspective: our analysis is that the euro, that a common currency, can only survive in the long term if europeans give themselves the push to integrate their economic policies. the competition for the so-called hard interests leads us, in case of doubt, to the difficulties we are having at the moment. there's a lot to do, and then it gets so bitter, mr. langen. there is so much to be said to the citizens about the need for integration. we went through so much when we were debating the constitution. we are so happy that lisbon is finally in force, and in the first challenge to lisbon, the boulevard wins, the table wins over reason. mrs merkel would be doing a very bad job - including that of your german colleagues in the epp group - if she did not stop. the need to integrate economic policy is what needs to be discussed beyond the day. transparency, reason and arguments with our citizens - that must guide us, but not the bild newspaper and the boulevard, otherwise angela merkel - as mr münchau wrote today - will soon be beaten home from brussels. the bild newspaper then writes: 'the euro must be abolished, the d-mark must be reintroduced.' what are we gonna do? it's not too late. germany is in a position to decide. i hope that mr sarkozy will not give in but will be more reasonable than mrs merkel!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not it is rare for me to agree with the president of the parliament and the president of the commission. but if both demand solidarity with greece and warn against renationalisation, then i can only agree with them because it is the right thing to do. mr barroso also recently raised the question in strasbourg whether the worst speculation on financial markets should not simply be banned. the growing social divisions in society in the european union and within the member states are now truly unmistakable. the urgent issues involved are not on the agenda of the heads of state at the first summit following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the debate on the eu 2020 economic strategy is of course already on the agenda. as you know, my group is not at all enthusiastic about this strategy as formulated by the commission, because it is based on the failed ideology of competition which led to the crisis. we want a strategy for europe which puts social and environmental needs ahead of competitive interests. eu 2020 is miles away from that. but it is a strong piece when individual members of the german federal government stand up these days and argue against the few binding goals of the eu 2020 strategy, for example on the employment rate, on research and education or on the fight against poverty and this in the european year of the fight against poverty! i hope that this attitude will not be adopted by the majority of european heads of government.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by praising greece. the only way to solve the greek crisis is through tough reform measures in greece. this is the way. all the other things that have been proposed here are against the european treaties, and i expect both the president of the commission and this parliament to respect the treaties and not to put forward proposals that are against the treaties. i would like to say to mr schulz that volume is no substitute for expertise. it is not the speculators who have got greece into trouble. it is the internal rules, the unwillingness of the member states to comply with the stability and growth pact. germany and france, not greece, were the bad guys who set a bad example for all the other member states in 2003 and 2004. not the others! this is not to blame greece, but if we do not change the rules, and if there is no willingness to have the member states abide by their own rules, then the eurozone will have problems. now it is being said that the blame lies with the speculators. the greek authorities have also provided the commission with a detailed analysis of the situation in the greek banking sector. less than one per thousand of the world's cds derivatives are placed in greece. that's an excuse! as long as we are not able - and the finance ministers are the bad guys - to enforce the rules and to abide by them, we will always be in trouble. that is the key, not the reproach of any head of government who is adhering to the european treaties and her own constitution. (applause from the centre)
madam president, my dear colleague mr hökmark! i believe we have been in other parliaments in recent years. because i have lived in a different parliament than you! i was in a parliament where some said we need to look more closely at the rating agencies, we need to look more closely at the hedge funds and the private equity firms. we need to regulate them, we need to review the critical financial market players and the critical products so that we don't head for an international fiasco. and i've seen the others who said, "don't touch it". the market will take care of itself, we don't need that. or as mr mccreevy has explained, where politics gets involved, things get worse. and we've seen the result. the international fiasco is the cause of the excessive indebtedness of the member states of the european union. it is hard to say today that this was the wrong orientation of a policy of growth geared to employment and the economy. it is completely out of the question, just as it is completely out of the question for mr langen to say that mrs merkel understood the european treaty. no, she didn't understand him. worse, it is likely to be able to subordinate the european treaty and the objectives of what europe must now achieve to its fear of losing an important regional election in north rhine-westphalia. but that is not the kind of leadership we need in the european union. we have told the commission that eu 2020 is too thin a soup. eu-2020, there is no meat. please provide evidence that you can acquire new funds. please fight for a financial transaction tax. please fight for more economy and more growth prospects in the european union so that smes and workers have a chance! but today we have to tell you that we are almost sorry that you have to save the european union with governments such as the one we are dealing with, represented for example by mrs merkel. the european union must be strong and create european instruments. this is our central message for the summit, because only then can people hope that we will give the right answers.
i have to say, madam president, i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. mr schulz said that greece had delivered and that europe was now in charge. i wonder whether europe should be thankful if today the member states in the euro area simply play by the rules of the game, namely return to the 3% criterion. i also ask myself: what happened last year when ireland faced the same situation and implemented severe austerity measures? it is not the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two. verhofstadt says there are speculators at work. of course we have pressure there at the moment. but the fact is that greece had huge interest rate benefits from joining the euro. our italian colleagues have converted this interest rate advantage into consolidation by joining the euro. greece has consumed it. that is why we can say that it is not the good european who is putting money on the table today, but the good european who is also enforcing the rules of the game that have been signed and accepted by all, so that they are also respected in the european union. secondly, i would like to give the commission a boost because the proposals on the table for the long term are going in the right direction. we have agreed on the 3% and that is why we need a strong commission which can control and enforce the 3% in the future. we have seen that the member states in the euro area are unable to control each other and to respect the 3% threshold. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one last thought: we should talk positively about the euro. we are not in a currency crisis, we are in an economic crisis. the euro is a great gain for all people. if our leaders in the european union no longer say this, if this is no longer expressed in the council, then the people will not know it either. and that's why we have this big, strong currency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the greek crisis is a current problem, but the growth crisis and the environmental crisis are long-term problems, both of which must be tackled with decisive action by the european council. the eu 2020 strategy rightly states that growth should be smart, sustainable and inclusive. but if i look at the council's conclusions, it is much more narrow and reduces itself to the classic growth strategy, which has failed and has not brought us far. so growth cannot be intelligent if it is not sustainable, and it is not intelligent if it is not inclusive. i therefore ask the council and the presidency to ensure that this triad, these three pillars, are maintained. this is the new thing that is really going to be implemented now. i am very pleased that resource and energy-saving growth should be a flagship for the eu. we talked about this a lot. this is a very important aspect of the commission's work. i expect the commission to give us a roadmap for this in 2010 because it is a mixed task for the eu itself, but also for the member states, and much of it is vague and very vague. we must above all make the target of 20% energy saving binding. this efficiency target must therefore be legally binding so that we know where it is going and so that industry can make the appropriate investments.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the eu 2020 strategy is an important document that the european commission has put forward to provide some broad guidelines for the future of the european union. i believe that we must all achieve the common goals we set in the eu 2020 strategy. this was one of the major problems of the lisbon strategy, which we all have to work on in the end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it is not possible if the european council sees itself as an administrative body, if things are arranged at the last minute, but if the political leadership of this institution is really exercised by those who act there. it will only be successful if the principle of solidarity is firmly established in this eu 2020 strategy. this means firstly that the member states must take responsibility for themselves in all areas where they themselves have responsibility. this includes labour market reform efforts, but also national fiscal policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's role in this process is to ensure that the community's policies are consistent with the objectives of the treaty. this means that we must avoid the mistakes of the lisbon strategy. it has been pointed out many times before that the strategy of cooperation which has shaped the lisbon strategy has failed. we need clear objectives from the european commission, and i believe that parliament will support the commission in this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate on the euro, the debate on greece, has dominated the past few days. i should like to point out at this point that i am concerned that in germany 40% of germans now say that the introduction of the euro was a mistake. we must be concerned about this, because monetary union is not a one-way street. the process of european integration is not irreversible. i believe that we have kept the promise we made when we gave up the national currency, namely that the euro will be as stable as the deutsche mark. and i am firmly convinced that we need a debate in europe about the social market economy, about the regulatory framework. we should not be talking about making germany less competitive, but about making europe more competitive so that we can also succeed on world markets. that is what we must do, and that is why i am calling for a debate on the social market economy in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i believe that we have a great opportunity here today for europe, this common europe, which began with treaties between states, that is to say, with a classic instrument of foreign policy in which the citizens were more or less spectators, to become more and more a europe of the citizens. what we are discussing here today is the first instrument of direct citizen participation at european level. i think it is clear to all of us what an opportunity this represents, in particular, for the creation, the gradual development of something like a european public, a european demos, which europe needs, because we are still discussing this in france, italy, portugal, germany, etc., more or less separately. we have hardly any common european discussions as far as the citizens are concerned. but a european citizens' initiative like this could help to bring this about, and it could help to overcome the feeling among citizens that brussels is far away and that they - the citizens - have no say in brussels. we are creating here the first instrument to give citizens a say in brussels. but the key is how we design it. i want to make it very clear that it is not yet decided whether it will be a success in the end or ultimately contribute to disappointment. it depends on the design. i can understand, mr šefčovič, that you have not been able to give us details today, because i know that you have not yet made a final decision. but we have an opportunity to perhaps briefly take a few points together here. i would therefore like to make a very specific point: i think that the success of the commission's proposal, or at least of what we are going to adopt as a legislative proposal here, is that it not only contains obstacles and provisions which citizens must respect, but also contains provisions on how the commission is to take a popular initiative seriously, because i think it would be extremely frustrating if a million citizens signed such an initiative and then the whole thing just disappeared into the dustbin. we need three stages of the admissibility check. first of all, the question is formally: have the signatures been produced? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the developing countries. and finally, we need a content check. and here i think it is important that citizens are invited to this examination, that a hearing is held, that they are appreciated and their concerns are discussed and not just that they receive a letter ex cathedra from above at some point. this is a suggestion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have proposed in the discussions we have had to propose that they be staggered according to the size of the member states, because it makes a big difference whether a large or a small state is involved, and i see openness to this proposal. i cannot comment on other points for reasons of time. i hope that we can put this first instrument of transnational democracy into action together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am one of those who created the first citizens' initiative, the sunday protection request. we have the pleasure today of discussing and then deciding on a way for citizens to participate in the process of political work in europe. and this is a way of advocating for more democracy and against european fatigue. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the problem of the environment. i would ask you to make the internet the main medium so that, by means of an electronic signature, which is then legally binding, a citizens' initiative with one million signatures is viable. and secondly, i would say that this is just a first step that we are taking now. i want to take this a step further. we now have a right of initiative for citizens. i would like to see citizens' votes at european level, as they are in my home state of bavaria. there is a popular demand and then, if there are enough votes, the possibility of a referendum. i wish we could do the same in europe.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the explanations of one minute referred to in rule 150. now, article 150 provides that we may have a maximum of 30 minutes for this item. we have had over 74 requests to speak on this item. it's obvious that this isn't working. 30 minutes and 74 speakers for one minute, that's not gonna work. we have therefore for the first time made a selection in advance of the members who can be given speaking time, according to clear criteria, namely that those who have already asked for a minute in vain in the course of the debate in another debate should be given speaking time now, whereas those who have already been given speaking time in other debates will not be given any. all those who were not given time to speak were informed in advance by e-mail. so you do not have to be here now and wait in vain for his time to speak. i hope you understand that. this was the only procedure possible to ensure that the debate proceeded in an orderly manner. that is why we are now proceeding in such a way that those who have been given speaking time can then begin immediately.
that concludes this item. i thank you for your understanding and for the disciplined procedure, and i hope that all those who have not had the opportunity to speak now will have the opportunity next time.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mrs sidonia elżbieta jędrzejewska, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the priorities for the 2011 budget, item iii commission [2010/2004 (bud)) ] (a7-0033/2010) and the report by mrs helga trüpel, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for the 2011 budgetary procedure, item i parliament, item ii council, item iv court of justice, item v court of auditors, item vi european economic and social committee, item vii committee of the regions, item viii european ombudsman, item ix european data protection supervisor [2010/2003 (bud)) (a7-0036/2010)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to speak first of all about the commission's budget. the european external action service is very dear to my heart. the commissioner will soon present a budget which will not yet include this. but the question of how much it costs is a key one for us. i am in favour of including this service in the commission, because that is where it belongs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not possible for multiannual programmes to be administered outside the commission. we can't let that happen. the legal structure we choose for this service will be very important, because the budgetary consequences will depend directly on it. that is why the most interesting thing about this budget is what is not yet in it. we very much hope that the commissioner will soon be able to estimate the cost of the whole thing. 2011 so much is already clear is particularly in the administrative line, where we will have the largest expenditure also for this service , the least room for manoeuvre. it's all sewn on edge. that is why i am in favour of urgently looking at ways of saving money in the staff regulations. i would also like to make a proposal for special leave for officials and staff working in the member states whose special leave is based on rail travel to their home country. you should skip the train journey and look at the plane ticket and the flight time. the budget of this parliament: whoever works in this parliament - unfortunately, not all colleagues can talk about this - needs staff. i would therefore like to make a specific plea for us to provide ourselves with suitable employment opportunities. i think that the commission should be able to make a link with the buildings, but i do not think that is appropriate because we also have constituencies and we can make service contracts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the council president is still not in existence from a budgetary point of view. it would be nice if we could also bring about its existence on a budgetary basis.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur again for his excellent report. high-quality agricultural products are a major location advantage for european agriculture to compete internationally. they thus make a major contribution to rural development within the european union. agricultural products in the european union already meet high quality standards. european standards are considered to be very demanding worldwide. unfortunately, not all consumers are aware of this. it is therefore important that the european union improves its quality policy and, at the same time, its information policy. this is an incentive for producers to become more active in the areas of quality and food safety. the consumer has a right to enjoy agricultural products in the eu without any inconvenience or regret. the voluntary 'made in the european union' marking and the mandatory regional marking and the mandatory proof of origin are not mutually exclusive. on the other hand, the size and geometry of packaging for agricultural products must be kept to a minimum. the european union is not here to be concerned with the curving of cucumbers. the same goes for the size of a pizza. i would like to make a point of warning against over-regulation. if you want regional economic cycles, you have to rely on quality and not on factors of curvature. if industry wants to have the same cucumber in the same glass as the unit weight, that is the business of industry and not the business of the european union or the european parliament. that is why we are focusing on quality rather than packaging units. i am counting on the wisdom and the good sense of the european parliament and of our new commissioner for agriculture, mr cioloş.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the debate on quality logos and mandatory food labelling, we must not forget that our political decisions must be practical. i do not see this practical feasibility in amendments nos 4 and 5 and will therefore reject them. quality logos are generally considered to be positive if they are voluntary. this gives producers and processors the opportunity to succeed in niche markets. however, we must bear in mind that some voluntary private logos are made quasi-standard by the market dominance of some retail chains. this is a very serious matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why he is not in favour of the proposal. the same applies to the compulsory indication of the place of origin of agricultural products such as milk. the implementation of this requirement would be technically difficult in agriculture and manufacturing. we must be careful that goodwill does not sink into excessive bureaucracy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the g20 summit in pittsburgh has provided a good template. it has called for recovery plans to promote decent work that helps to safeguard and create jobs, and it has given priority to employment growth. the european labour ministers are therefore called upon to urge the g20 members to: firstly, not roll back stimulus packages but to use them more and more to create jobs; secondly, to use financially secured short-time work to counter job losses; thirdly, to use public investment for job creation and sustainable ecological growth; and fourthly, to strengthen and expand social security measures to provide access to it. this also safeguards purchasing power in the internal market and employment and helps to combat poverty. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am glad this discussion on the labour and employment ministers’ meeting in washington dc took place today because it is not going to be the only summit where the voice of the members of parliament will be heard on such an important subject. there is another summit coming soon that should also get to hear what you said today: i have in mind the summit tomorrow in brussels, which has the opportunity to support the europe 2020 agenda with a strong inclusive pillar and flagship initiatives to boost employment and reduce poverty and with serious targets included in this strategy. it has to be appreciated how serious a crisis the world economy has faced in the last two years and it is not only about deteriorating statistics. i fully agree with mrs göncz that we also have to appreciate the political risk, the risk this crisis poses for european civilisation. and i hope that the leaders who meet tomorrow will understand this and draw very responsible conclusions from this situation. without that it would be very difficult to represent european values worldwide; it would be very difficult to represent with credibility the commitment to addressing unemployment and poverty in the g20 context. it is a major step forward that labour ministers are meeting in the g20 context. whether we are emancipated to include finance ministers is still to be seen but it is very important that this step has been made and there is the opportunity to exchange experience and exchange views. it is true that the financial crisis has been first addressed by the governments and the fiscal power of the state has been directed to the stabilisation of the banking sectors. the banks have been recapitalised and financial stability has enjoyed priority. now we have to prioritise job creation. we have to prioritise an exit strategy that does not harm existing jobs and does not undermine the capacity to invest. therefore we first have to make a decision to create financial order, to restore stability and to eliminate the pressure on member state governments to make unreasonable cuts that affect the social sector and employment. i fully agree that the ilo is the cornerstone in producing ilo standards and making reference to them in the international discussion is of key importance. this is a sound standard for us in moving forward on employment and social relations. the g20 context is a great opportunity to link up with discussions in the outside world and they are connecting us not only to discussions on labour relations but also on financial regulation and on issues such as transaction tax that are more boldly discussed in other corners of the world and sometimes deserve more serious attention inside the european union. so i am grateful for the comments i have heard and for the messages i can convey to other partners in the g20 group.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the commission statement on the fight against tuberculosis.
member of the commission. − i very much enjoyed listening to the speeches given by the honourable members, and with great interest. i would like to assure you that the commission is taking this disease very seriously and is taking very seriously these ideas that have just been put forward today. we are determined to achieve the objectives of controlling tuberculosis. such discussions are of particular importance to keep the disease in focus. the contribution of parliament and your support to parliamentarians is essential in the joint effort we must make to tackle this disease in the european union and also in other countries.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is a brief presentation of the report by mr enrique guerrero salom, on behalf of the committee on development, on the impact of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation (com (2009) 0160 2009/2150 (ini)) (a7-0034/2010)
it is also a matter of justice to observe the time for speaking.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 march 2010. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the 2009 annual report on the euro area and public finances was drawn up at a time of enormous challenge for the euro area, and that time has not yet passed. the economic situation is a matter of great concern to citizens and to all of us. at that time, this report was adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs in a very good atmosphere of cooperation and by a very large majority. that is the spirit in which i would like to present this. it is clear that both in the commission proposal that was discussed there and in the recommendations that we are now bringing to the plenary as parliament and as the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the one hand we see very clearly that the economic situation must be stabilised. on the other hand, the crisis, which has now stabilised somewhat - growth figures have recovered somewhat - has entered a second phase, namely enormous public deficits, and this is also the price that has to be paid to get out of this crisis to some extent. the message of the report is very clear: we must return to the path of the stability and growth pact as soon as possible. we cannot pass on this debt to our children and grandchildren. on the other hand, the report also makes it clear that the rules of the stability and growth pact are not enough, but that the euro area lacks the appropriate measures to improve coordination, in particular by addressing imbalances within the euro area and by strengthening the coordination of budgetary and fiscal policies. and now the big challenge for those in charge in the eurozone is to solve these problems responsibly. this means that it is not acceptable for everyone to continue to insist on their partial privileges in national church tower politics. the responsibility, particularly of the commission, but also of the eurogroup, is enormous to take the necessary measures now in this situation. i want to sum up what we are proposing there. firstly, we need effective instruments for economic coordination. secondly, the structural dependence of the euro area on finite resources must be ended. we cannot afford to slip back into recession when the next rise in oil and resource prices, which is already under way, occurs. thirdly, it is not that the financial markets are not effectively regulated after this crisis, but as we are already seeing, that in central places, such as supervision, individual member states ensure that no sensible proposals are made in the first place. fourthly, it is not that in such a crisis - contrary to the values of the european union - the objective of social cohesion is not at the forefront, but that absurd interest rates are charged to individual member states to finance their debts. that is why we are calling in the report for the introduction of eurobonds or similar measures to help the weaker member states here in the logic of solidarity. the main concern must be that the necessary adjustments to fiscal policy are not at the expense of the purchasing power of the masses. the simplest solution to this would be effective cooperation in the field of taxation. the commission should finally and quickly put forward proposals for a common tax base in the field of corporation taxation. the report also calls for the implementation of a reporting system for enterprises, broken down by country. we ask you to make a proposal to that effect. in general, the point is that, particularly now, in the context of mr monti's work and the revival of the internal market, the principle of tax cooperation must take precedence over that of tax competition. make strong proposals so that we do not emerge from this crisis with more debt, but so that, strengthened by strong economic cooperation among member countries, we can ensure that we do not leave our children with debt, but a eurozone that works together instead of competing to pull itself down.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to take this opportunity to turn our attention once again to greece, because i think that the crisis in greece also provides information about the political situation in the eurozone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the euro. my group, the gue/ngl, considers this a completely absurd proposal. on the one hand, we are talking about a community of destiny. if we are serious about this, then we cannot, on the other hand, in the first major crisis, or perhaps even a medium-sized crisis, call for a member state to be excluded. this is an unding! but above all, it would be a declaration of bankruptcy and a profound bow, a profound bow to the financial system. it has shamelessly allowed itself to be bought out of the crisis by the states, by the taxpayers, and greece is now to be denied this or similar help! the pensioners, the workers in greece, but also in the other countries concerned - portugal has now been demoted as the next country, as was reported in the media - will hardly be able to explain that they should be asked to come to the cash register, but first they supported the banks with their tax money. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in spite of all the justified criticism of greece, the comrades from greece also see that there is a lot to be done there. the crisis is by no means the sole responsibility of greece. i would just like to point out that the ecb has been largely delegated the decision-making of monetary policy in the euro area. the euro does not provide an answer to the different capacities of the economies. strong exporting countries such as germany are bringing greek economic policy to its knees. the crisis is therefore also a crisis of eu economic and competition policy. we therefore call for the ban on financial assistance to eu member states to be suspended. the member states of the eurozone should issue euro bonds, the european central bank should acquire debt instruments in line with the federal reserve's practice in the united states, and credit default swaps should be banned. these are our demands! (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a point of order, mr president, that the members want to vote later and we are going to have the biggest trouble if the speaking time is not respected!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as the epp group's shadow rapporteur for the ecb's 2008 annual report, i am very satisfied with our present report. thanks to the good and close cooperation with the rapporteur, mr scicluna, and above all with mr tremosa of alde, we have, in my opinion, produced a very balanced commentary on the ecb's 2008 annual report. president trichet and commissioner rehn have said the same thing. i think that the ecb faced particularly difficult tasks in the first year of the crisis, 2008. in view of these challenges, i think the ecb has acted very well overall and above all with great prudence. the report by mr scicluna reflects this. the ecb's situation is not easy and will not remain so in the foreseeable future. the crisis is far from over and the regulatory measures currently planned are of course creating new challenges and problems for the ecb. it is important that the ecb, especially in the near future, continue to ensure stability in the euro area, that the ecb, like a tanker on the high seas, continues to maintain its good course. on the other hand, mr trichet, i have already raised this in the penultimate monetary dialogue, and the independence of the european central bank must also be safeguarded. in particular, its future involvement in the european systemic risk board. this is of paramount importance, since you as president and other members of the ecb will be very much involved. this is likely to be an important criterion in the future assessment of further central bank action and we should above all bear this in mind in the forthcoming reports in the coming years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first like to thank president jean-claude trichet for his very successful work over the last six years. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for presenting a report which is able to be supported by a majority. i would remind commissioner rehn that you now have a huge task. i hope that the commission will finally have the courage to address the shortcomings of the stability and growth pact in a new proposal. this will not be an economic government led by finance ministers because those finance ministers have failed in the past. there must be greater automation. we do not need an economic government with finance ministers, we need an automaton that reacts when there is a breach, with the assistance and guidance of the ecb and the commission. this could be the result of the summit. let me make two comments on what president trichet said about the eurozone. i particularly welcome your point that we must be globally competitive and that it is not a question of one euro country competing with another, but of whether we can prevail over the usa and asia. secondly, the eu has an overall balance sheet thanks to the surplus countries, and if that had not been the case, you as the ecb would have had to take a much tougher line. thirdly, there is no example in economic history of countries with declining populations being able to create growth in the long term through the single market. you have to export. as for germany, it has made a poor start on economic and monetary union, has caught up, and is an example for many others. we have enough to do with budgetary consolidation. that's not to be underestimated. but who can really have the idea of punishing those who have gotten through and of transferring those who have not fulfilled the requirements? this cannot be european policy! i therefore wish the commission a lot of courage and i warmly thank the ecb! (applause from the centre)
rapporteur. − mr president, following this debate, i would like to make three quick points. firstly, looking at the different opinions here in the house, we do not have the same opinion on the question of imbalances. there were differences which were quite clear and i think we have to be careful. in particular i would like to address that to you, mr trichet and mr rehn, and ask you not to be blind in one eye, because the central problem, as we agree in principle, is that costs should grow according to the inflation target plus productivity. some countries had cost increases which were too high, and it is good that you are acting. on the other hand, there are several countries which use tax policy as well as their wage-setting arrangements to ensure they fall below this threshold. if you do not act on those – and i know that some in the ecofin do not agree with this approach – then we will be setting fire to the economic basis of the eurozone and that is very dangerous. i urge you not to be blind in one eye and i urge my colleagues likewise. look at greece and the stability programme, which was praised. i would like to stress that there is a major problem, and i refer to what i learnt during my visit to greece last week. most people in greece feel that during the last 10 or 20 years a lot of people became very rich under circumstances which were not just. if you praise the irish efforts you cannot compare it to the situation in greece. people in greece feel they should not suffer because of things they have not caused. therefore i urge you, mr rehn, also to put pressure on the greek government to get serious on illegitimate wealth which has been accumulated in the past. otherwise the programme will be not accepted and it will also fail for economic reasons. we have to make sure that the programme is socially just – and it is not yet socially just.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not thank you, thank you. we have two amendments, one amendment to the amendment. i want to bring both. we would like to have deleted 'the council' and the final result of this amendment, which is now being discussed, is then: 'calls on the member states to refrain from forced repatriations of minorities if they face homelessness and discrimination in the areas of education, social protection and employment once they have been forcibly returned'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. i voted against this report for two reasons. i am concerned, firstly, that europe is increasingly throwing out the water jug in development policy and is promoting this principle in more and more resolutions and demands. secondly, i voted against it because i am very concerned that we are trying to impose on third and second world countries, in a kind of cultural imperialism, how to carry out family planning. abortion cannot be a means to that end, and i regret that a section of this house in the european parliament is using the fancy term 'reproductive medicine' to describe abortion, but that does not change the fact that abortion kills unborn life. that is why i voted no, and i hope that in future we will not use the same fanciful terms in every resolution and in every owninitiative report to describe what cultural imperialism means.
in writing. − bearing in mind that frontex was, inter alia, set up to ‘protect’ the eu’s borders from so-called ‘illegal’ migrants, we oppose the agency and its objectives. however, we welcome the guidelines for an adequate consideration of international and european asylum and human rights law within the commission’s proposal (com (2009)0658 final). we especially welcome point 1 of annex i (respect of the principle of non-refoulement, the consideration of the special needs of vulnerable persons and those who are in need of urgent medical assistance, trainings for border guards in human rights and refugee law) as well as the points 3 and 4 (including consideration of the migrant’s situation, taking into account their possible requests for assistance or the seaworthiness of the ship, no disembarkation in countries where persons risk to be persecuted and tortured) mentioned in annex ii. in addition to this, we emphasise the need for a binding character of this second annex and point out that we will amend the mandate of frontex according to these principles.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of foodstuffs is not compromised. the implementation of this requirement in agriculture and processors requires much more effort and costs, without any real added value for the consumer. that is why i voted against this motion.
president of the european council. − mr president, honourable members, dear colleagues, today i report back to you on the first formal meeting of the european council that i have had the honour to chair. as you know, that meeting had on its agenda our economic strategy for europe 2020, and our strategy for global negotiations on climate change. that agenda was supplemented by having to deal urgently – for the second time in two months – with the situation in greece and related questions concerning the eurozone. allow me to start with the latter point. how, in what circumstances and by whom financial support should be provided, if needed, to the greek government, was the subject of much debate in the run-up to the european council. indeed, prior to our meeting, there appeared to be a wide divergence of views. this is really not unusual in the history of the union, certainly when so much is at stake – the key point is that we reached agreement. the union’s capacity to find a compromise remains intact. it is fundamental to our existence. in the event, a large number of bilateral contacts between member states and myself, the conclusions of the meeting of the eurozone ministers on 15 march, proposals by the commission on loans by the member states and intense negotiations between france and germany helped pave the way to finding a compromise acceptable to all. i convened and chaired a meeting of the heads of state and government of the eurozone countries and presented to them a draft statement which, after being amended, was accepted unanimously. the parts of the text for which the european council is competent were discussed and agreed by the european council itself. the european central bank also agreed. in the statement, we reaffirm that all euro-area members must conduct sound policies in line with the agreed rules and should be aware of their shared responsibility for the economic and financial stability of the area. we fully support the efforts of the greek government and welcome the additional measures announced on 3 march, which are sufficient to safeguard the 2010 budgetary targets. those measures were requested by the informal european council of 11 february. on the basis of the mechanism of solidarity we put in place, we stand ready, should market financing prove insufficient, to step in and provide support through a european-led operation of bilateral loans from the euro area member states, in cooperation with the international monetary fund. the mechanism respects the treaties and meets with overall agreement of the member states, of the commission and of the central bank. consequently, the greek government has not needed to request any financial support, though we will continue to monitor very closely the situation. let me just say that the imf participation initially gave rise to some apprehension on the basis that it could appear to be external support for a euro area unable to solve its own internal problems. upon reflection, however, the view prevailed that the international monetary fund is, after all, financed to a significant degree by european money, so why should european countries not be able to draw upon its facilities? we have set up and financed the imf for this very purpose and it would be strange not to make use of it and its expertise. close cooperation with the imf appeared therefore to be acceptable, certainly in an operation consisting of a majority of bilateral euro-loans. two further aspects of the statement have given rise to much comment. first, the european council wants to draw lessons from this crisis. that is why it created a task force under my authority. that task force will be established in close cooperation with the commission and include representatives of the member states, the rotating presidency and the european central bank. it will present its conclusions before the end of this year. the european council will take the final political decisions. i intend to give a high priority to this work. the greek case highlighted the limitations of the current fiscal surveillance mechanism in the euro area. we must explore all possible ways to reinforce fiscal discipline and propose a framework for crisis resolution. a strengthening of our mechanisms is essential. what legal texts may eventually require amendment is an open question that must be explored, while remaining aware of the different procedures that would be required to amend the various legal instruments. the task force has to deal with two aspects of the problem, revealed by the recent crisis: responsibility – how to prevent such budgetary indiscipline happening again – and solidarity – how to avoid improvisation, if a financial crisis eventually happens again in a member state. the greek case has also highlighted the need to look at the issue of divergences of competitiveness inside the eurozone and the union, on which we began a discussion that will be pursued in june and is an aspect of the eurozone economy to which we have paid insufficient attention. without more economic convergence, we will jeopardise the common currency and the common market. this discussion is crucial. budgetary discipline is not sufficient. behind budgetary problems lie economic problems. the second item giving rise to comments was the paragraph in which we stated that ‘we commit to promote a strong coordination of economic policies in europe. we consider that the european council must improve the economic governance of the european union and we propose to increase its role in economic coordination and the definition of the european union growth strategy.’ some have commented on the fact that the french version of this statement refers to ‘gouvernement économique’ instead of ‘governance’. let me make it very clear that there is no divergence here in what we are seeking to achieve. we want to make full use of the european council as the body in which we can coordinate both union and national instruments to improve our economic performance. the european council is neither the executive nor the legislative power of the union. the mission of the european council, according to the treaty, is to give impetus and guidelines to the political direction of the union. this applies also to economic policy. that indeed is what the bulk of the european council meeting focused upon when we turned to examine the europe 2020 strategy. here, i can report steady progress, which we will pursue further at the june european council. based on the proposals of the european commission – and i would like to pay tribute at this point the work of president barroso, – we have already identified five key targets on which our efforts should focus: first, bringing the employment rate up to 75%, notably through the greater participation of youth, older workers, low-skilled workers and the better integration of legal migrants;second, improving the conditions for research and development, in particular with the aim of bringing combined public and private investment levels in this sector to 3% of gdp;third, reaffirming, and integrating into our economic strategy, the climate change targets that we have already committed to achieve by the year 2020; fourth, improving education levels, in particular by aiming to reduce school dropout rates, and by increasing the share of the population having completed tertiary or equivalent education;finally, promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty. more work needs to be done on these targets, in particular by developing appropriate indicators – and member states now need to set their national targets, which will be differentiated according to national situations. some of these targets are reflected in eu legislation, whilst others are not of a regulatory nature, but represent a common endeavour to be pursued through a mix of national and eu level action. the last two of these five targets – education and social inclusion – gave rise to some comment. they do, of course, represent key aspects of what has been called the ‘european model’ of society, where market forces are tempered by social commitment, and indeed by environmental awareness. however, some have pointed out that education is a national or indeed, in many states, a subnational or regional responsibility. that is true – and there is no intention whatsoever to change that fact. what it does represent is the need for all levels of government to work together on our common strategy, with each taking responsibility for their part in our common effort. as regards social inclusion and the reduction of poverty, some have said that this is an outcome, not a means. it will be the result of our efforts, not an instrument. although i understand that argument, social inclusion is a competence of the union according to the lisbon treaty, and it is also a key instrument for improving our overall economic performance, as well as for securing public support for what we want to achieve. it corresponds to the profound aspiration of peoples for fairness in our economy. we ignore it at our peril. besides identifying these five targets – on which further work will be necessary – the european council underlined that rapid progress is required on strengthening financial regulation and supervision, both within the union, where the european parliament has important work before it concerning financial regulation, and in international fora such as the g20, to ensure a level playing field at the global level. progress is particularly needed on issues such as capital requirements; systemic institutions; financing instruments for crisis management; increasing transparency on derivative markets; considering specific measures in relation to sovereign credit default swaps; and implementation of internationally agreed principles for bonuses in the financial services sector. the commission will shortly present a report on possible innovative sources of financing, such as a global levy on financial transactions or on banks. we have to find solutions so that a new financial crisis cannot happen again, but we also have to address the moral crisis that was at its root. the european council went on to have a discussion on climate change and on how to refocus our efforts after copenhagen. a global and comprehensive legal agreement remains the only effective way to reach the agreed objective of staying below a 2°c increase in global temperatures. we agreed to remain ambitious and constructive in the international negotiations, but we agreed also that a stepwise approach should be followed, building on the copenhagen accord. the pledges made on emission reductions are insufficient to meet the crucial target of 2°c. the negotiations need a new dynamic. the next meeting, in bonn, should set the road map for taking the negotiations forward. cop-2 in cancun must produce concrete decisions and must address remaining gaps. the union and its member states will implement their commitment to provide eur 2.4 billion annually over the 2010-2012 period for fast-start financing, and we remain committed to jointly mobilise usd 100 billion per year by 2020 to help developing countries fight climate change. in this context, we had a discussion on how to address key partners in the world introduced by the vice-president of the commission/high representative cathy ashton, whose pertinent analysis was well received. we will raise these issues not only within the united nations process, but also in other settings in order to help build the necessary momentum. we will pursue internal work as well. we will hold a dedicated european council debate on energy policy, and on how to shift towards an efficient, low-carbon economy, exploring all its aspects, including security of supply. mr president, honourable members, i can conclude that the european council has made clear progress and has avoided huge and damaging pitfalls that could have set us back a long way. curiously, some have suggested that my own role in this process was merely that of a spectator whilst others have accused me of being a power-grabbing dictator. let me assure you that i am neither. the permanent president of the european council has to be a facilitator and a builder of consensus in an institution that can only work by finding the necessary and sufficiently ambitious compromises. i had hoped that my start as permanent president of the european council would have been easier. the two coming years will be difficult. i am fully aware that the worst of the recession is over, but not the problems. we reacted efficiently in dealing with the initial financial crisis, but it is often more difficult to stay united and act consequently once the storm is over. this means there can be no ‘business as usual’ over the coming two years. that will also be the case for the european parliament.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, last month the european council had to deal with an important agenda under very demanding circumstances. after intensive and earnest debate, it not only agreed on the essence of the commission’s proposals for the europe 2020 strategy on growth and jobs but it also decided on a mechanism to ensure financial stability in the euro area capable of providing financial support to greece, should the need arise. but let us be frank. there were not many people who would have predicted this outcome. given the stakes, there were important divergences of opinion between the member states up to the very beginning of the european council, both on the short-term issue of the financial stability mechanism but also on the medium-term issue of the europe 2020 strategy. let me explain briefly how the solution has been achieved and what this means from the commission’s point of view. i will start with the financial stability mechanism and then move on to the europe 2020 strategy. regarding the financial stability mechanism, the truth is we were moving in uncharted territory. but let us be frank about another point as well. whilst it was necessary to map out the new response to a new challenge, it was unthinkable not to provide a response. the question was not whether there would be a response. the question was what the response could and should be. as i said, there was no initial consensus among the member states in this respect. discussions had been going on for quite some time but had not come to a conclusion before the meeting – neither on the principle nor on the details of the mechanism. this is why the commission, and more specifically president barroso and commissioner rehn, took the initiative, through a mixture of consensus-building work and public advocacy, to help member states come together around our shared interests. on the one hand, the commission was at all times working very actively with euro-area member states in designing an adequate mechanism. in particular the commission ensured that any mechanism should be placed in a community context. on the other hand, in the 10 days before the european council, the commission repeatedly pressed for a decision for such a mechanism based on two key principles: stability on the one hand and solidarity on the other. if you remember our debate before the european council: these are the two principles all of you have been calling for. you all know that it took sustained work and complex negotiations to achieve the solution that ultimately proved acceptable. in its essence it is based on the euro-area mechanism advocated by the commission whilst providing for participation by the imf as well. with this we now have a workable mechanism in place and ready to use. it is a prudent safety net. this is what we needed and this is what we have got. the commission is satisfied with the final shape of the mechanism. it may not be perfect. it is surely unprecedented, although designed in full respect of the treaties. and its core features retain the essentials. the institutions keep the role of triggering the mechanism. the right arrangements have been made to involve the imf, within the framework of the euro area. at the same time the european council announced the task force to look deeper into mechanisms for dealing with this sort of crisis. its particular format is explained by its complex remit, which is rooted in a long-term perspective, making provision for a wide-ranging discussion of all possible options, not excluding possible treaty changes. such fundamental debate is of course important and, this being said, already this spring the commission will bring forward measures to improve coordination in the euro area. for this we will be using the new opportunities already provided by the lisbon treaty. the commission knows that parliament shares its view that it is much better to anticipate the need for coordination ahead of time and to have the right mechanisms already in place when needed. let me now turn to the discussion of the europe 2020 strategy. we have already discussed here the urgency with which we should action, the need to galvanise society to change our approach, and the essential role of the eu in obtaining a successful transformation of our economy. delivery will require a collective effort by all stakeholders at all levels. we all know that strong, clear messages give something for people to rally around, and this is why the concrete targets and the flexible initiatives proposed for these strategies are so important. they exemplify our shared european ambition and provide a point around which collective efforts can be shaped. we know that, if we collectively manage to achieve them, europe will boost its competitive edge, europe will preserve its way of life, and europe will strengthen its position as a global player. therefore it is also very important to underline that this will be a test of how far the member states are prepared to commit to national action in pursuit of common goals. following this european council, we now have precise figures agreed for employment, research and development, as well as climate and energy. the commission also believes that the case for an education target has been accepted, and that we can be confident that concrete goals will be set in this respect as well – along the lines the commission has proposed – we hope already in june. i would like to say a word about the target that was most intensively discussed, meaning the one on action against poverty. you are aware that a number of member states remain to be convinced that setting a target against poverty is a task for our union. the commission’s view on the matter is also very clear. first, anyone who has read the treaty provisions on social policy knows that it is quite wrong to say that this matter should be reserved for the member states alone. second, the commission rejects suggestions that there can be no meaningful target here. we will continue to refine the clear and methodologically sound approach we have advanced. the commission is confident that a consensus can be built around it between now and june. third, we always need to be conscious of the risk that our union could be perceived as being more concerned about banks and businesses than about workers and families. the commission is determined to ensure that this is not the case. a target against poverty would send a powerful signal that the eu is about opportunities for everyone in society, even the most marginalised and the most vulnerable people. and, as the commission has repeatedly stated, the issue of poverty cannot be resolved through an employment policy alone. employment policy is of overwhelming importance, but it can never reach out to all sectors of society. what about children? how are you going to treat pensioners? what kind of solutions are we looking for if it comes to the marginalised communities? therefore i can assure you that the commission will be keeping up the pressure to keep a target against poverty as a top priority. in doing so, we will of course respect the distribution of competences as provided for in the treaties. our flagship initiatives are all construed in a way that means that european union-level action complements those actions by the member states. europe 2020 is not about one level acting at the expense of the other. it is about making all levels work well and together as a whole. over the next few months, the debate will increasingly switch to the member states level, as the eu-wide targets are translated into national targets. i would like to ask you to participate fully in this debate, explaining that this is not about a centrally imposed diktat. this is about a common approach to common problems, and a creative way of using the european dimension to encourage member states to stretch that little bit further in their efforts to reform their economies. a final word on the other issues which have been discussed during the european council. over dinner, the european council discussed the forthcoming g20 summit on the basis of introductory comments by president barroso. as you know, not all the eu member states have a seat of their own in the g20. the commission has been acting and is determined to continue to act as the trustee of the general european interest. now, as the immediate impact of the financial crisis fades, the g20 faces the challenge of keeping up its momentum for a joint approach to the policy issues that need to be addressed if the world wants to come out of the crisis in a better shape. in the commission’s view, the european union must continue to act as a driver for this ambition. the forthcoming toronto summit must provide a clear message from the g20 on an exit strategy to support recovery – one where all major economies play their part. it should also underline again how concluding the doha round would be a huge boost for the world economy. most importantly, it must drive on with financial market reform: we need to keep up pressure on our international partners to deliver the timely and consistent implementation of the g20 commitments. in this respect, it was emphasised that our message will be strongest if we can say that the eu has done its homework. that is why before toronto we should aim to have agreement on the key financial services regulation files still outstanding, namely the files on alternative investment fund managers and on bank capital, the famous crd iii. and of course it is essential to agree on the supervision package so the authorities can be up and running from 2011. the commission has never hidden its disappointment at the degree to which the council proposed to cut back the powers of the authorities, putting their effectiveness at risk. you are now in the process of debating the package, which gives the opportunity for a collective rethink, also bearing in mind the experience of the past couple of months. president barroso also addressed the burden of bank repair and reaffirmed the commission’s sympathy for novel instruments, including levies on banks to feed resolution funds. moreover, he spoke about derivatives, in particular about the problem of naked credit default swaps on sovereign bonds. he stressed that the commission is looking into this closely and considering what new measures are needed on short selling, over and above the structural reform of derivatives markets that we are already pursuing through legislation we will present to you in june and later this year. the european council also devoted attention to climate change, endorsing the main messages set out in the commission’s communication. member states agreed that this remains right at the top of our list of challenges. this means keeping up the momentum of international efforts – and you know that this is not always easy. but we have the right springboard. we have the track record of action inside the eu. and the european council reaffirmed the eu’s commitment to fast-start financing to help developing countries. what we now need is to be determined and consistent. determined in going out and making our case with key partners worldwide, explaining why we cannot let our ambition slip. the commission acknowledges that parliament is already engaged in this effort. as you know my colleague commissioner connie hedegaard has already embarked on a programme of outreach. we must be consistent in our commitment to an effective international agreement, if the other most important players are ready to take part. we need to cement the advances made in the copenhagen accord. in summary, the commission has provided strong input into this european council, the first formal meeting under the successful chairmanship of the permanent president of the european council, herman van rompuy. i would like to congratulate him for his successful chairmanship through these very difficult waters and in the complicated circumstances. we look forward to the intensive work of the next months, especially between now and the european council in june, with you in this house and the spanish presidency in the sector council formations. this work must set the course for a dynamic and focused eu ready to meet the challenges of the decade ahead.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i must confess that when i heard mr van rompuy's speech, i asked my neighbour, mr lambsdorff, to squeeze my arm because i felt that i was out of touch with reality or that the president must be out of touch with reality. the only good thing that i think the last summit brought was the end of a very undignified quarrel between paris, berlin and brussels - including the intervention of the ecb - on the question of whether or not we should help greece, how we should help greece, whether we need a european monetary fund, whether we should involve the imf or not. in the end, the cow trade, which mr verhofstadt has described quite well, has come into being. i also do not understand how you can say that what has been agreed there is already helping greece. because the interest rate that the greeks have to pay today is - i've rechecked it - not 6%, but 7%. so he went up immediately after the council's decision. i cannot understand how people can make such a big deal out of european solidarity, as has obviously happened in the council! i also think that a very strange, subtle signal has been sent to greece, because what was described as a safety net during and after the council meeting, during the summit and after the summit, is not a real safety net at all! if it was a net, it would have to carry it. but as far as greece is concerned, it was agreed that the situation with the greeks would have to be brought to a head before brussels was prepared to actually help. in germany, when mrs merkel returned from brussels, it seemed that she wanted to teach the greeks what it was like to be at the bottom before she was ready to really help. we have the impression that this is more of a chapter of black education, but we do not have the impression that black education is what could help the european union at the moment. (applause from the centre) all this negative energy towards greece is also accompanied by the decision to stay out of the way of solving the problems in greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's exactly what i think is wrong! we must once again be clear about what greece is actually showing us, namely that we are faced with the weaknesses of our treaties, and in particular the weaknesses of the maastricht treaty. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i hope that it will be adopted by the council in the near future. it is simply the time when we must talk about new and next steps in reform, in addition to what mr verhofstadt has said about eurobonds and the financial support mechanisms. and, mr van rompuy, if your task force - in germany it was always called the working group, which sounds a bit more reserved - is putting off the need for reform, then i can see nothing but a common european crisis in the wake of the greek crisis. there is no way around the fact that our economic policies, our tax policies, the way we draw up our public budgets, the way we ensure competitiveness, must be much more closely coordinated and jointly responsible. but the summit did not guarantee all this, and in my view did not promise it in any way. europe 2020 the climate: if this is a sign of success or failure, what is connie hedegaard supposed to be driving to bonn in may? with your bare hands? does she have to go to bonn with what she's been given? this is embarrassing. and then there's the big hour of lady no, that is angela merkel! it is just as embarrassing that the already weak social policy objectives which mr barroso had put forward were weakened once again by germany, by mrs merkel! so much negative energy from germany! i read that many colleagues have wished helmut kohl back in these hours. i have to say, i didn't feel that way. i remember the cabbage years a little differently, and europe was not everything then either. what i would like is for the political consciousness in europe's capitals about the need to come together in times of globalisation and global crises to finally be translated into common policies. mr verhofstadt, i welcome your call for more work on europe 2020. so far, three groups in this house have dealt exclusively with this.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not it is good that the heads of state or government have been able to agree on an emergency package, but it is hardly a truly european solution. the german government has for electoral tactical reasons see north rhine-westphalia completely avoided populism. the agreement then hung on the thread of the conversation between merkel and sarkozy. it is not a package to protect citizens. the objective of the financing mechanism is to provide, i quote, 'incentives for a return to the financial market at risky prices as soon as possible'. the economic policy coordination should build on the failed principles of the stability and growth pact. so the state and the citizens should save, the financial markets, the banks should assess whether enough has been saved. i think that is a questionable procedure. the eu is currently at its highest unemployment rate since 1998 at 10%. over 20% of those under 25 are unemployed. you have to be very specific about where you want to save. if you don't, i'm afraid the worst will happen. why has the council not agreed to an increase in cohesion and structural funds or an immediate ban on the trading of credit derivatives? why has he postponed the agreement on concrete poverty reduction targets in the eu - i do not say intentionally, but practically - to st. nimmerlein day? i think this is a scandal in the european year for the eradication of poverty! june this year is far too late!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to draw the attention of the european commission and this house to the worrying development in commodity prices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's steel industry is not left behind. here and in the other steel-producing sites in the eu, colleagues are very concerned about their jobs because the three major suppliers of iron ore to the steel industry are imposing 100% price increases. the price of ore will be traded on the london metal exchange, rather than being guaranteed price security through long-term supply contracts as in the past. the workers and their unions fear that this will lead to an extreme rise in the price of the basic material steel. this is in a situation where the savings potential of cost-cutting programmes and staff reductions has been fully exploited, especially after the recent restructuring of the steel industry. to draw attention to this situation, works councils and the metall industrial union have addressed the duisburg appeal to the federal chancellor and president barroso. i ask the commission to heed this appeal.
the fact is that in the one-minute speeches, interim questions with a blue card are not allowed. it was not a point of order, and your colleague may be able to answer the question individually, but certainly not in the context of the debate in plenary.
thank you very much. as you can imagine, as the chair of the high level group on gender equality and diversity, i have a great deal of concern about equality. we have a list of speakers, and there has been a balancing act. the question of who can speak in the debate then depends, of course, on who is actually present. that concludes this item.
the next item is the report by mr józsef szájer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the delegation of legislative powers (com (2009) 0673 - 2010/2021 (ini)) (a7-0110/2010).
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has already done so. the european parliament has long been waiting for this moment, to be on an equal footing with the council of ministers in the control of acts delegated to the european commission. to shed light on this issue: in 2008, there were 6 000 delegated acts, a large mountain of standards, which were dealt with by the commission in a kind of secondary legislation and the old comitology procedure. parliament had very few rights. we were informed, but we were not co-legislators. the lisbon treaty has now changed that. we are on an equal footing with the council in the control of delegated acts and we want to be on the same footing in full. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. we want to be informed as soon as the council is informed.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession in brussels. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the subject of aviation safety: community blacklist of air carriers by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-0024/2010 b7-0205/2010).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have a standstill in the aviation sky at the moment. we know that, it was just mentioned. we shall be discussing how to remedy this situation in the near future. it is even feared that - especially in economic terms - airlines will soon face even greater problems. of course, that doesn't have to affect safety. this is about the safety of european air passengers. for us in europe, it is a great achievement to be able to move freely and to be able to decide as consumers how we want to move, which airlines we want to book and which airlines we do not want to book. of course, in order to be able to make a free choice, it is necessary that one actually gets the relevant information. now we have just heard that we have had this blacklist since 2006 and you should in principle be informed about whether you can arrive safely or not. i think the question is really - as mrs de veyrac and mr el khadraoui have already said - whether there are not gaps in the system, whether you really always get all the information you need in terms of security. we want all the people who fly here in europe to be safely transported and arrive safely. finally, the financial strength of an airline is also important when it comes to safety. air carriers must regularly apply to their national authorities for a european airspace licence, which not only checks that they are meeting their safety obligations, carrying out all the necessary checks and operating safely, but also that they are financially strong enough to remain in the transport business on a permanent basis. as far as i know, we have not yet had a european airline on a blacklist. but in fact, we had the skyeurope incident just last year. so european citizens had booked with a european airline but had no information that the company was on the verge of bankruptcy. they flew, they were stranded, and so they had no information to protect them. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. i would like to have a general answer to that question in the debate.
the debate is closed.
thank you for the information. we'll follow up on it and see what happened there. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr jörg leichtfried, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on aviation security charges (com (2009) 0217 c7-0038/2009 2009/0063 cod)) (a7-0035/2010).
the question of the blue card is not allowed for a personal remark under article 151. i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express your views on the matter.
thank you very much. we shall now proceed with the debate. i have accepted the personal statement because the previous point of order referred directly to mr hans-peter martin. we shall now continue the debate and concentrate on it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr leichtfried, also on behalf of mrs hennis-plasschaert. she can't be here today. she negotiated with you and was quite satisfied. it is also true that the report is of good quality, since it was voted on by a fairly unanimous vote in the committee. this is also a consumer protection issue, just as in the previous oral question, and it is also a matter of air safety. we want security, but we also want consumers to know what they're paying for. it has already been pointed out that the systems vary widely from one member state to another and we do not want to change this in general. we don't want to rush into anything. we want to see transparency in the way the costs are allocated and in the proportion of the final cost to the consumer. that's not always the case at the moment. that is, we want to know what percentage of the ticket price - at the moment it is still a percentage of the ticket price paid for security - is really relevant to security. we also want to ensure that what is paid for security is actually used for security, without anyone making any money from it. i think that's a perfectly logical approach that we've developed to this. there is a crucial point of conflict between what parliament wants and what the member states think is good, and that is the question of who pays for additional safety decisions that go beyond what we want for passengers in europe. we said that this is what the member states should do. it is a matter of national security, which must also concern the nation states. the states, of course, do not want to pay for it. we will have to consider - as has been said - whether we want to have body scanners or not, whether we want them to be europe-wide or not, and who will pay for them. of course, the question is, do they really bring more security? so, air safety compensation in this form must be handled transparently. (the president cut the speaker off) )
we had a technical problem here, so it was a little longer minute. but now the clock is working again, and hopefully everything should now stay on the time frame.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank mr leichtfried for an excellent report, which is sound and well-written. what's it all about? the aim is to strengthen transparency, consumer protection, security and coordination, and quality management. i would, however, caution against creating a new authority to deal with these issues. i welcome the report's subsidiarity principle, which should be maintained in any case. it is also very important for me to have a clear separation between taxes and fees, and all tasks under public law - whether they are intelligence, police, counter-terrorism or similar - must clearly be financed by tax money and not by user fees. if individual nation states have a vital interest in taking additional security measures, i believe they must also bear the costs in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i am sure that the technical or personal aspects of the matter are different, and that the passenger can certainly be held responsible for this, provided that the matter is clearly stated. it is also worth noting that the impact assessment submitted to us by the commission estimates that these measures will cost about 0.1% of the total transport costs. so we shouldn't start too high. i believe that we will be able to reach a workable compromise, including with the federal republic of germany, which has very serious reservations about subsidiarity. i hope the final result is very close to what we proposed.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession in brussels. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on community guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network (recast) (com (2009) 0391 - c7-0111/2009 - 2009/0110 (cod)) (a7-0030/2010). mr simpson cannot be here, so mr el khadraoui will speak in his place.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. these guidelines for the development of transeuropean networks sound very technical at first. but the rapporteur, brian simpson, has already pointed out that they are of course of vital importance for the future economic development of europe. transport is the lifeblood of the economy. we all agree on that. we must also keep in mind that europe, as an economic and commercial centre, is in competition with the major economic and commercial centres of america and south-east asia. it is therefore necessary to develop our domestic transport for the domestic market and, on the other hand, to link europe's export capacity with the development of the transeuropean networks and to strengthen them further. traffic vectors are designed to take in source traffic, convert it into destination traffic, and ultimately direct it to where the customers are. the big question is that the development of major transport routes is of course also a matter of developing the area and thus economic development. europe is a continent with many coasts and very large ports, and these ports need to be connected together - mobility is the a and o. but we must not only think just-in-time, but we must also work in a cost-effective, environmentally-friendly way. this will be of particular importance in the future. a very crucial question will be: can we convert the north-south and east-west connections that we already have with rail, road and waterways into a real network? because here you have to realize that there are bottlenecks that we have to go around. there are, of course, things to consider. the longest transeuropean route from palermo to berlin should be extended further via rostock towards scandinavia. we'll have to take care of things like that in the future. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the transrapid has no place in these guidelines. it doesn't fit into the european landscape. it does not reduce the different systems we have, but it increases them. we spend billions to create a unified system, and here at the national level billions are spent to counter that. this can't be! although the european parliament had spoken out against the transrapid, it suddenly reappeared in 1996 as a project between berlin and hamburg. and then he was gone again. nobody knows why. in 2004, the transrapid connection between munich airport and munich hauptbahnhof appeared just as suddenly. this was then stopped in germany, with the support of the bavarian state government. and this project was stopped by consensus, nobody wants it anymore. that is why it cannot be in these guidelines any more! the former bavarian prime minister, edmund stoiber, has been called upon to promote the reduction of bureaucracy here in europe. it's his responsibility. he's the one who has to decide that this transrapid has no place in those guidelines. we should all take note of that. we need to get rid of this transrapid! he was a fine model for science, but he has no business in europe. there, it's a foreign body, and foreign bodies don't belong in these guidelines.
i have to say, madam president, it is true that the transeuropean networks serve the general traffic in europe. it can also be said that transport is the backbone of the entire european single market, which is one of our main objectives in europe. it is therefore essential to ensure that all corridors are really developed where there is a need for funding, which is what the eu should focus on. of course, it is clear that there are always national interests. we 've already noticed: the first group spoke of the danube, the second group spoke specifically of the southern european area, the third group spoke of the brenner base tunnel. these are the axes of transport throughout europe. the aim is to make them generally throughout europe, so that not only goods but also people can be transported from a to b. that's our job. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must ensure that we avoid bottlenecks and, above all, that we have a truly functioning network for all modes of transport. that is the point, and we shall discuss it accordingly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession in brussels.
the next item is the report by peter van dalen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the strategic objectives and recommendations for the eu's maritime transport policy until 2018 (com (2009) 008 - 2009/2095 (ini)) (a7-0114/2010).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, we very much welcome the fact that there will be a future strategy for maritime transport in the eu, even if we have to wait a little longer with the vote. we expect this report to be incorporated into the future of transport report and then into the white paper. with the european maritime strategy 2018, we are providing a framework to make the european maritime economy more competitive at international level, and we have stated in the strategy that we want to align this framework firstly with environmental standards and secondly with reasonable global social standards for good quality shipping. let me make three points. firstly, shipping is an environmentally friendly transport sector, and it was therefore our objective that this sector should continue to contribute to the fight against climate change. i am very much in favour of creating incentives, such as the green ports, although we will not decide anything today, but will give the commission and the council the task of seeing what is possible there. i think it is equally important to maintain international competitiveness vis-à-vis other modes of transport. it is therefore right that the commission should undertake an impact assessment of the sulphur monitoring areas in the north sea and the baltic sea, as a result of our proposal, because if we want more than elsewhere, we must be careful both to ensure international competition and to ensure that we do not have to transport containers by road again in a counterproductive way. let me just say one last thing that's particularly important to me: this is the integration of the major european seaports into the planning of the tens. this is of enormous importance to us because seaports are important links in transport chains and can only fulfil their role effectively if intermodality is facilitated or strengthened. there are a number of other points which could be made here. mr van dalen, i congratulate you on this good report. we have all played a part in this and i ask for your understanding that we do not want to make this good report worse by accepting your amendments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as the first speaker of the liberal group, i should like to begin by thanking mr van dalen very warmly. we all know that he is truly linked to shipping in body and soul. that's been made clear. we all know how important this area is. the fact is that the maritime economy as a whole has grown considerably more than other sectors of the economy in the last few years before the crisis. the maritime transport sector plays a major role in this, and it can be said that maritime clusters are of crucial importance for the further development of europe. it is also predicted that, after the valley crossing, the transport sector will grow again in the crisis and that then maritime transport will have a lot to do. 90% of our exports and imports pass through ports. it is of course important - as has already been said - to take appropriate action in the case of corridors, transeuropean networks, ports and inland links. we need offspring. if we have more transport in the shipping sector, we need people who like to work in this sector. we need good quality training there, which is also coordinated across europe, and at the same time we need to promote this sector. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. we want good working conditions - that too is something we can and want to vote on throughout europe. the environment has already been mentioned. shipping is very environmentally friendly, especially in terms of co2 emissions. it can still improve considerably in terms of nitrogen oxides and sulphur emissions. we must work on this, the sector itself and we in europe in general. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are relatively in the lead in europe and we must ensure that we maintain that leading position. we may also need state aid in individual cases. we must ensure that we develop this sector together. so, maritime transport is an absolutely future area, and that's why it's good that we have a long-term strategy.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europeana is to become the european union's major digital cultural project. what does europeana mean? it is a digital library, a digital museum and a digital archive for europe's cultural heritage. and it should provide access to this digital offering for all citizens, not just within the european union, but worldwide. the europeana project started in november 2008 and 1 000 cultural institutions are contributing to its development. it has 150 partner organisations. to date, some 6 million works of european cultural heritage have been digitised. by june 2010, there will be 10 million digitized works, and by 2015, 15 million. it is a very ambitious project and it is very important for the european union. so far it has been funded by the econtent+ programme and by the member states. however, the speed of digitalisation in the member states has so far been very different. france is leading with over 40%, germany is around 16%, but many other member states are lagging behind. but it should become our common flagship of european digital cultural policy. it is particularly important that we understand that it is a public cultural institution, and that it should therefore be a good competitor to google's booksettlement for understandable reasons, because we do not want to simply entrust european heritage to a monopolist, but we want to have a public offer of our european cultural heritage in the best european sense. we also want to preserve public influence, because that means that european citizens can then have real political influence. it is not a problem when it comes to works that are no longer under copyright protection or as they say in english public domain. the situation is much more complicated when it comes to so-called orphan works, that is, works that have not yet fallen out of copyright protection, but for which it is not possible to identify the exact owners. the case is even different when it comes to copyrighted works. if europeana is to have a copyrighted works catalogue one day, there must be a charge for private downloads, otherwise we would be destroying our cultural assets on the cultural markets. so what i want to achieve politically is, on the one hand, rapid and effective digitisation while respecting copyright, because that is the only way we can maintain the cultural diversity of the european union. so we need consensual solutions for the orphanages and very careful research into who owns the rights. it is politically very important to me, when we are discussing the post-lisbon strategy, the eu2020 strategy, when it comes to the modernisation of our economy, the development of the digital society, the knowledge society and cultural diversity, that europeana must also be co-financed from this eu2020 programme, of course with the involvement of the member states. it must be a joint european project. that is why we need a 'join europeana' campaign to hopefully find more private financiers. but we must also make it clear that we must of course promote this offer among our citizens, and especially among young people. a lot of people don't know that yet. we are now faced with this great task together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank helga trüpel once again for this really excellent report which we are discussing today. i think it is a very great project to make europe's diverse cultural heritage available in a digital online library to people in europe and around the world. but there is still a great deal of collaborative effort needed to make this project a success. the essential prerequisite for this, in my group's view, is free access to cultural heritage via europeana, which means as free of charge as possible. we have found a good compromise in the joint discussions, which is both in the interests of the authors of protected works and in the interests of the necessary free access, and i would very much like the commission to take these proposals into account and adopt them in the future. another prerequisite is that member states become increasingly aware of their responsibilities. for my own country, it is unacceptable that goethe is available in polish and french but not in the original german. we must all join forces to call once again on the member states to provide the necessary financial resources to make europeana a real success at this level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the rapporteur for his report. agriculture is the sector of the economy which is doing and can do the most to protect the environment. the commission has already succeeded in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture by 20%. in addition, agricultural soils and plants remove a large amount of co2 from the atmosphere. agriculture is therefore part of the solution to the problem of climate change. on the other hand, food production for 500 million eu citizens must be a priority, while using resources as efficiently as possible and protecting the environment and biodiversity as much as possible. farmers cannot do this alone. this requires a strong european agricultural policy to support them. only in this way can we produce enough food to feed a growing world population and at the same time preserve the environment to combat climate change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to thank mr le foll very warmly for his report. it contains very important points which we must bear in mind in the future. climate protection must also be part of the new agricultural reform, it must be built into it. we need sustainable and ecological processes in the future that guarantee climate protection. agriculture is not only a victim of climate change, it is also a major part of the cause. after all, 10% of the greenhouse gases come from agriculture. there must also be a reduction. we must also bear in mind a subject raised in the report by mr le foll: we import a lot of soya from, for example, brazil. european agriculture is also concerned with the conversion of areas of primeval forest into very intensively farmed agricultural land in other countries, which is also having an effect here. you'll have to consider that in the future. we must also strive to build up our own protein supply in europe in the future. this is also part of the solution to the environmental problem of climate change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. the promotion of less-favoured areas is a central part of the common agricultural policy in order to maintain the agricultural area in europe. the commission's approach to developing an eu-wide system for the demarcation of these areas is therefore to be welcomed. i am, however, critical of the eight criteria which have been developed for this purpose. i'm not convinced they're really suitable. it was incomprehensible to me - and i think also to the rapporteur and the whole committee on agriculture and rural development - that the commission did not provide us with the results of the simulations for the effects of these eight criteria. i would therefore like to make a call to the commission: this should not happen so often. of course, if we want to judge things, we must also know the results. i regard this as a little bit of a lack of confidence in parliament. this means that there is still a lot of work to be done on the specific proposal for a regulation. i hope that the commission will look carefully at mr dorfmann's report, which we have made our own report. i personally hope that mr dorfmann will continue to give political support to this issue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also thank mr dorfmann for the report. what he has said clearly shows that we still have some clarification to be given on this subject. i think, like the previous speakers, that the present grid of demarcation is too broad. it is not in many places meeting the needs of disadvantaged regions. i question whether we can manage on our own with these natural criteria. we must also examine the social environments which play a major role in disadvantaged regions. the commission has to think again about refining the present framework in order to give many regions a chance of survival, since the payments to less-favoured regions are very vital for the survival of many farms. i am afraid that with the current implementation there will be very big shifts, which are not always understandable and will cause great anxiety and uncertainty within agriculture. you should work on that again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european agricultural policy must be made simpler, more transparent and easier to understand. that is the message of the rapporteur, mr ashworth, and it is a good and correct message. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this would save our farmers a lot of time and money and increase acceptance in society. we have to be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's farmers are not left behind. i therefore hope that the simplification of the common agricultural policy will be made a permanent task here in parliament and in the commission.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i believe that this crisis has a human dimension, which i think we need to talk about today. there are many - tens of thousands - of people stranded somewhere waiting to finally get home. i think we should think about these people this morning. each of us - many colleagues - has had a similar fate in recent weeks. we are privileged members who can still use some infrastructure. there are a lot of people sitting in a corner of the world, not getting out, not coming to work, their children not going to school because they haven't come back from vacation, stuck somewhere without care, without money. i would also like to express my sympathy for this morning's victims. i hope we can get these people home soon. air carriers are systemically important. air carriers are systemically important not only in terms of passenger transport but also in terms of transport of goods. we see that the economic losses that have been incurred by this volcanic eruption are already significantly higher than the losses of september 11, 2001. i therefore appeal to the commission: if there is indeed a need for national aid to airlines in difficulty, then the commission should be flexible in approving such aid. finally, we should take note that aviation is part of a very fragile infrastructure concept with which we live in europe. if aviation fails, we are not in a position to compensate adequately for that failure. i therefore believe that the project we started 20 years ago, namely the development of the transeuropean networks - and in particular the development of rail transport - is a credible, important and, as we are now seeing, economically viable alternative. we should confirm that again. my colleague, saïd el khadraoui, will now go over some of the elements. i would like to say one thing: we have not yet succeeded in making trains interoperable between countries. no german ice could pick up germans from spain because it is not possible, and no french tgv could continue to budapest. that means we're still not as far along as we should be. i would like to say that although we have taken the right decisions in parliament, we should not act rashly from time to time, but work sustainably and continuously to implement our concepts.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner and minister, from spain! we've seen in this case that nature is actually more powerful than any technology. in a way, we humans have been taught a lesson. but at the same time, we must also say that in this case we have realised that we are not yet as far along in europe as we should be. we have been talking for 20 years about a single market, including in transport, and about a single european sky, a single european airspace. of course, it could not have prevented the volcano from erupting, but it might have provided a better, faster way of doing things. we have long wanted a single european airspace coordinated by eurocontrol, but we have not yet had it. i am also going in the same direction as mr schulz. we do not yet have interoperability in rail transport. we have not yet had the opportunity to book a ticket from north to south, across europe, on the railway. we have a lot of paperwork and a lot of discussions, but in reality there is still a lot that is missing. it must now be said that the reaction in europe has been somewhat unsatisfactory for the citizens. of course it was very difficult, and of course no national minister could clear the airspace when an institute in london warned that it was not safe. at the same time, it was unsatisfactory that there were no real measurements of any balloon in the air, but that one dealt with statistical projections. this has angered many citizens, and one can understand the airlines, which of course see the economic damage and would have liked a quicker response. there is an economic damage to the airlines, and of course it is very important that the passengers come home first if we want to preserve their rights. but it is also important for passenger rights in europe that there should be transport facilities at all, that there should be services. i therefore also see it as systemically important to have airlines and transport facilities in europe which can then be exploited. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. as far as compensation is concerned, we cannot turn to the volcano; we know that's not going to happen. nature has its own laws, but we as human beings must try to respond to them in the interests of the citizens of europe. i therefore think it is very good that a task force will now be set up under the chairmanship of vice-president kallas. this is very important and we will continue to discuss how we can draw the consequences of this crisis for the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mobility in europe has changed dramatically in the last six days. this time, it was not a major accident, or the fight against climate change, or the high cost of jet fuel that was the deciding factor. nature itself was the deciding factor this time. the volcano in iceland has once again shown mankind the power of nature. this should be a lesson for us in the future. there is no such thing as the omnipotence of man. she'll never be there. the response to this volcanic eruption was rightly european. because the airborne engine can stop and the aircraft windows can be blinded, the european aviation safety agency eurocontrol has acted responsibly and made the safety of passengers its top priority. i would like to thank the green group at eurocontrol, the ministers for transport who are supporting them and especially the german minister for transport, peter ramsauer, for this. the cockpit pilots' union must also be supported, since it is more responsible than the airline managers. it rejects the view that flights over european airspace are irresponsible. either the airspace is safe or it isn't. because ultimately it doesn't matter what the rules are for flying through it or what the rules are for crashing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. we demand that: the airspace over europe must not be reopened until any risk can be ruled out. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'air traffic controller' to include the use of the term 'air traffic controller' in the same sense as 'air traffic controller'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this policy has been based entirely on air transport. airlines in europe receive €14 billion a year from european taxpayers because - unlike rail fuel - kerosene is not taxed. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2012 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. but the conclusion we should draw is that rail is not only the safest mode of transport, it is also necessary to ensure mobility and to stop climate change. so i would also like to thank all the railways in europe who have stepped in to help get passengers to their destinations. the volcanic eruption in iceland should be a warning to us all. what we're seeing now is the actual implementation of the future of transport. the future of transport will only be a success if it is not built overnight. the commission has therefore asked all the member states of the european union to change the priorities of their national and international transport policies. the railways must be given priority not only in words but also in financial deeds so that we do not have to go through this again.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the decision of the aviation safety authorities not to jeopardize the safety of passengers was absolutely right. even if it means closing airspace for many days, even if it means economic loss for the airlines. i think it is irresponsible for airlines to want to let their pilots fly again at their own peril today. what do you mean, "at your own risk"? i welcome the commission's consideration of allowing special state aid for companies which would otherwise be in serious economic difficulties because of the current situation. we shall be discussing the employment situation in the european union later. if the eu and the member states help to prevent at least further deterioration, that is only right. however, in exchange for the granting of state aid, it must be agreed that airlines will not make any reductions in staff or salary. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens and to the risks of exposure to carcinogens at work. it is time for the commission to ensure the continuous common european surveillance of aviation safety. this monitoring should be explicitly aimed at combating social dumping. i would remind you of the state aid to the banks, which benefited from it, so to speak, but did not act socially. competition and profit must not take precedence over the safety of human life.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as we might have guessed, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is also responsible for disaster prevention, has an own-initiative report on the community approach to natural disasters in the pipeline. mr joão ferreira is the rapporteur. we shall vote on this report at the next part-session and we shall also consider the experience gained with volcanic ash. the plenary is able to formulate parliament's position on these matters very quickly. i agree with the colleagues who say that we are ill-prepared for natural disasters. fortunately, europe has few natural disasters. but we have little experience in this area, and you can see that crisis management is quite deficient. i think it took too long. five days until a test plane takes off and collects real data, that's just too long. we must learn from this. i don't mean to be critical. but experience tells us we have to do better for next time. if this volcanic ash has shown anything, it has shown the need for more europe. commissioner, you say that the national authorities have responsibilities. but that doesn't make the people who are suffering the harm any happier. we need more europe in disaster prevention and, of course, in a common transport policy. the lisbon treaty gives us more scope. and like mrs hübner, i ask you: how do you use the possibilities of the lisbon treaty in crisis management and disaster prevention? it's got to get better!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it has become clear that the passenger is at the heart of this whole issue. we want the european passengers to be transported safely. we want security, but we also want transportation. i think we need all the transportation we can get. we also need flights. we can't replace flights. there was a lot of talk about high-speed trains. of course, it would be good to have more high-speed trains. but what good is the best high-speed train if it has to stop at the border? that's why i think we have to take it one step at a time. the first thing we need is the interconnection of european railways, just as we need a single european airspace. since all the parties have spoken out in favour of greater coordination between the member states, i would like to appeal once again to all the parties in the member states to block the whole thing: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. because if we all manage to convince our parties, we will also have a better development in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners! i would also like parliament to show more of the respect you show it. we'll have to work on that. the work programme you have presented is very broad and contains headings which sound very ambitious. the introduction is already headed 'a new era'. i am not sure that the details of the headlines will live up to this very pleasing claim. it's still about the climate crisis, it's still about the financial and economic crisis. greece has once again shown that we have not only a widening economic gap in the european union, but also a social gap, so that the conditions under which european citizens live in the south, the east or the north-west are very different. so the challenges are great. i can only agree with mr swoboda, particularly in the area of social europe and greater justice: there is a need for further work. we are not at all convinced that what is now on the table is enough to tackle the growing poverty in the european union. have the consequences of the financial crisis and the subsequent economic crisis been rightly drawn? what we think is right about financial and economic integration is that proposals are being made again to adjust corporate taxation. we in the green group are very much in favour of this, and have been for a long time. we are also in favour of energy taxation. you'll be able to count on us, if you'll just see it through. but what we still lack, given the experience of the financial crisis, is a clear working objective on the financial transaction tax. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is clear that we have not responded adequately in the case of greece. we do not think it is right that no eurobonds are being proposed at this time. mr barroso, in your campaign for your second term you gave very, very high value to public services. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal. i also think that the 'human at the heart' heading does not deal enough with services of public interest and what you want to do about regulation. you'd be breaking one of your biggest promises right now. on climate change: the different dgs currently dealing with climate change are working on scenarios with different targets for 2050. the long-term reduction target is 70% for transport and 75% for energy. connie hedegaard's people haven't made up their minds yet; i hope their goals become more ambitious. but one thing is certain, no one in the directorate-general is interested in bali or the two-degree target. what is the point of all this talk about the new, big european climate diplomacy if we have clearly written off bali or agreements made in the g8? the programme does not contain enough to make a successful european appearance in bonn, cancún or south africa. there's still a lot to do!
mr president, i thank the commissioners for their presentation and for all the effort they are putting into the haiti case. i also agree that it will be good to focus on the whole island. even if i am very critical about the whole of the union approach, i might very well agree with your ‘whole-of-the-island’ approach. i also urge you not to forget the future commitments that we need to make. we need to stick to the pledges we are making now. if we see that the member states are not so strict in keeping their 0.7% pledges, you really have to be strong on this and make sure they come forward with their plans. we also have to make sure that we do not make obsolete the progress that we are now making in haiti, by having other eu policies in place which will actually prevent progress from happening in haiti and elsewhere. we really have to stick to policy coherence so that we do not have success in haiti only to have all our progress ruined because of other harmful policies.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. article 125 of the eu treaty provides for the so-called bailout clause, which prohibits eu member states from assuming the debts of other member states. what is your view of the fact that the aid package for greece now leads to countries such as the federal republic of germany lending money to the greek state for three years at 5%, which they themselves borrow at 1.5% for a three-year commitment? if the estimated total is 8.4 billion, that would be a profit of 620 million. does the bailout clause not also mean that if i cannot take over the debts of a state, i cannot make money on the debts of a state in the eu? are you prepared to talk to the german government or other governments about such a mechanism, which in my view is totally unacceptable?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i understand that you are trying to avoid my question because it is an unpleasant one. that is why i am repeating them again. at least there is the possibility that if member states can borrow money themselves on better terms than the terms on which they lend the money, they can profit from a country's debt. so if the bailout clause says you can't take on the debt, then you can't make a profit on the debt. are you prepared to speak openly to mrs merkel, mr sarkozy or anyone else about your opposition to such an approach?
president of the commission. - you spoke of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty: i strongly support the strengthening of the role of the european parliament in this area too and the text which will be published tomorrow, for which we had to obtain the authorization of our negotiating partners, is the draft negotiation text. we're going to do it. you will no doubt understand that some international negotiations are more sensitive and require reservations in certain areas, but we want to involve parliament as much as possible, whose competence in the field of international negotiations has been rightly recognised by the treaty of lisbon.
president of the commission. − mr president, i do not yet have a draft legislative proposal in my pocket. it is too early, at this stage, to have fixed ideas about the substance of any changes. as you know, there is a consultation paper that is deliberately open in tone. i also want to hear the social partners’ views. the new rules should protect workers from the health and safety risks of excessively long working hours and insufficient rest. they should also be flexible enough to allow for the conciliation of work and family life and to promote the competiveness of companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. i think we have to have a solution for that, mr kirkhope, quite frankly because, as you know, there are cases before the court of justice that oblige us to find a solution. so we will try to find a broad-based support for a new proposal and avoid the long discussions that marked the last attempt to revise the directive.
president of the commission. − you are very kind, mr kirkhope, but apart from britain there are in fact also 26 other member states in the european union, so you will understand that while we are very receptive to the concerns you have expressed, i also have to listen to other legitimate concerns. this is a very difficult issue and an extremely sensitive one. we have to find the right balance between the flexibility you are highlighting for small and medium-sized companies and the protection of workers which i am sure you are also in favour of. that is what we are going to do. that is why we are appealing to the social partners also to come forward with a constructive proposal.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr barroso, you have spoken about your work plans and this has been discussed in parliament. you said you wanted to take up critical remarks. i have a question: we have been talking a lot lately about the crisis and how to deal with it. i have the impression that the practice of banks has changed relatively little. i would like to ask you one more question: do you think we have done enough, or the commission has done enough, or what do you think is still needed to tackle the causes of the financial crisis in the longer term so that the practice of banks does not continue?
president of the commission. − just today, in the work programme, we have presented our action in the financial sector. we have done a big part of it, but another important part remains to be done. i think the commission proposals were the right ones. in fact i regret that, in some cases, the level of ambition has been reduced by member states, for instance regarding the supervisory framework that is now being considered by you in parliament, and we will come forward with some proposals – there is a complete list that i have presented today to parliament – in the near future. but i think there are some specific things, to be more concrete, that we can do. for instance, i am supporting the idea of a bank levy. i think that should be a matter for the g20. i think it is fair that the banking industry, after all the problems it has created to the overall economic situation, also gives a contribution for the future of our economies. so, as always, it is a question of balance. we do not want to undermine what is a very important sector in our economies – the financial sector – but we believe that some more measures are important to restore confidence in the financial sector.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr barroso, i have a short question, however. the head of deutsche bank, mr ackermann, is hard to impress. he was talking flatly again about wanting to achieve a 25% return. do you not think that this is a mockery, in view of the measures taken by the commission and by individual governments? it doesn't change anything. he says he wants 25% return. this is what mr ackermann, the chairman of deutsche bank, says, and this is no small bank.
several recent announcements of new it tools, like google books or ipad, would facilitate access to cultural content in digital format, notably the so-called ‘e-books’. however, most of these initiatives come from the us. what is the commission doing to promote digitisation of our cultural heritage on the european continent?
yesterday we were informed by the media that the opel plant in antwerp is closing down: one of many examples where we have lost jobs in europe. the european industrial unions will be holding a europe-wide demonstration day next thursday. their demands are to secure the future of the industrial centre of europe and to safeguard jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. the commission's work programme is not very specific in this respect. you have just referred to the guidelines and the eu 2020 position paper. i think that's not specific enough, you should really give examples. what are you going to do to re-establish our strategically important industrial sectors in europe and what is the commission's role in making the automotive industry sustainable and in safeguarding jobs?
president barroso, i have to disagree with you. you said that measures to harness the green job potential in the european union would be embedded in eu 2020. that's not true, man. they simply forgot that fact in the strategy. i wonder why. it is clear that if we want to promote employment, greening the economy is a great opportunity to create more job potential. why is this not included in eu 2020 and what does the commission intend to do to ensure that the employment potential of a sustainable economy in europe is really used, especially since the belgian presidency of the council has made this an essential point in its concept, because it believes that there is a great opportunity in this? what is the commission doing about this?
the next item is the report by mr josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu strategy for relations with latin america (2009/2213 (ini)) (a7-0111/2010).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a member of the eurolat group, i am very pleased with your report, because it is really important to continue to strengthen relations between the european union and latin america. we have now made a lot of progress since 1999. in latin america there are 600 million people, and here in the european union there are now almost 600 million. we share similar values and human rights, and we are also united by our desire for democracy and peace. but the actual circumstances are very different. the thing about a partner is that you always make sure that both partners can be equally strong if possible: we are not yet. latin america has many problems, not only illiteracy, but also lack of infrastructure, lack of education in general, lack of democracy, violation of human rights. luckily, we don't have that many problems. the drug trade is something that feeds many people there and that of course also needs to be changed. as an important trading partner and as one who is also active in development aid, it is our task to see that latin america is further assisted in its democratization processes. i would like this partnership to lead to the fact that in latin america people can live in peace as well as we do in the european union, and that we can learn from and benefit from each other in the same way. that is why i very much welcome the idea of a european-latin american charter for peace and security, as well as the idea of a euro-latin american foundation. i think that would really deepen the partnership and really help us.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased to have this opportunity to make a statement on kyrgyzstan. as this house knows very well, the situation on the ground remains somewhat fluid and tense. kyrgyzstan has attracted quite some media and political attention, and i have followed developments closely from the beginning, making two statements, one on 7 april and the other on 8 april. i sent a delegation almost immediately, headed by the eu special representative, pierre morel, to the country and we stayed in close contact throughout his visit. the coordinated eu-un-osce effort that started last week in bishkek continues at the moment and will continue until the crisis and its consequences are overcome. yesterday, i spoke with the kazakh foreign minister saudabayev, who today is visiting bishkek as chairman-in-office of the osce, and who has literally just sent me a message to say that he has completed his tasks. the resignation of the president, on the basis of article 50 of the present kyrgyz constitution, and his departure from the country is expected to reduce political tension. however, that is not the end of the crisis, and we have important work to do. most importantly, we have to ensure stability and public order, and while the situation has generally calmed down, violence continues. reports told us yesterday that as many as five people were killed in riots in the suburbs of bishkek. all sides need to be careful and avoid provocation. the restoration of law and order must be a priority. citizens and businesses in kyrgyzstan need to be able to go about their daily life without fear for their lives or for their physical integrity. the second issue concerns the legitimacy of the provisional government. although president bakiyev has officially resigned, the provisional government needs to commit to a clear plan for how to return to constitutional and democratic order and the rule of law. elements of such a ‘road map’ have been announced – a new constitution is being drawn up and submitted to referendum and presidential and parliamentary elections are to be held. we will be happy to look at such a plan. what is important for us in this context is that the constitutional process is inclusive and participatory. representatives of all parties and ethnic groups should be able to contribute to a new draft constitution before it is submitted to a referendum. the early indications – i can tell honourable members – are encouraging. i hope these will be confirmed over the coming days, and i will discuss this with ministers in luxembourg on monday. if we are satisfied the provisional government is committed to a quick return to legitimacy and genuinely wants to join the democratic family, we will be ready to provide the necessary political, financial and technical support. with the venice commission of the council of europe, we could contribute to the work on constitutional reform and the updating of electoral legislation. we know from the presidential elections last year that there is considerable room for progress. with the osce, we are willing to work on the preparations and modalities for monitoring the elections and, with the people of kyrgyzstan, we are ready to do what we can to help turn their aspirations for a democratic and open society into reality. thirdly, it is clear that kyrgyzstan needs material assistance. in the very short term, we are willing to address any humanitarian needs that recent events might have created. on the basis of the information that we have had from our partners in the field – the red cross and the un development programme – there do not seem to be major unmet humanitarian needs at this stage. however, there may be specific medical needs. the commission, through dg echo, will of course keep monitoring the humanitarian situation in the country and adjust as necessary. we will continue the assistance that is already on-going, notably in the fields of human rights, education and poverty eradication. fourthly, after the dramatic events of the last two weeks, there is a need for accountability and justice. more than 80 persons died and many hundreds were wounded from gunfire opened against demonstrators in bishkek. these events cannot simply be put on one side. we need clarity brought on what actually happened, on who was responsible and on what needs to be done to avoid this is ever repeated in the future. finally, as the recent crisis has shown, there is a need for genuine economic and social reforms. unfortunately, the example of kyrgyzstan shows how bad government and the lack of genuine reform can bring political instability and ultimately violence. the upheaval and the widespread looting that followed, and now the rise in organised, large scale crime, further aggravates the situation. i will discuss with ministers on monday the political framework in which the european union will be ready to address the most pressing needs, but of course today i am very interested to hear the views of the honourable members on this matter.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you very much for your assessment of the situation and i also think it is right to try to restore order and to save lives first, in order to build on this foundation. it is also clear - and you made this clear in your last remark - that economic and social development is a matter for the member states, because it is also an important criterion for achieving political stability. this certainly includes the issue of equal treatment, which is often undermined by corruption and the like, which has obviously been a cause of this conflict, whether justified or not. we must see that these countries are to some extent unstable, that our efforts to bring about stability by contributing to better state formation, democracy and the rule of law are crucial. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if this were to go in the wrong, fundamentalist direction, it would be disastrous for us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should also remember that neighbours - also major neighbours in the region - have a particular responsibility not to use such weaknesses to rebuild old power relations that are not in keeping with modern developments.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, canada is one of the oldest and most like-minded partners of the european union. we work together on a wide range of issues – both bilaterally and of course around the world. our relationship is anchored in a shared history that goes back a long way and by common values that are deeply held. it is on that basis that we cooperate to protect our common interests. we do so of course for the benefit of citizens in europe and in canada but also to promote security and prosperity worldwide. so it is an important relationship. we need to nurture and invest in it, so that we realise its full potential. that is the purpose of the next eu-canada summit which will take place in brussels on 5 may. the timing is fortunate. because it means that, as canada is chairing the g8 and g20 summit at the end of june, our eu-canada summit allows us to take stock and align our strategies on global themes that will figure on the g8 and g20 summits, for example how to promote a sustainable economic recovery, cooperation on financial market reform and regulation, climate change and combating nuclear proliferation. i attended the g8 foreign ministers meeting recently in canada where, indeed, many of these issues were discussed. we will also have the chance to discuss eu-canada bilateral relations and how we work together on regional crises. our aim is to have a focused, business-like summit. with our bilateral relations, the summit will deal with efforts to upgrade and modernise the eu-canada relationship. it will offer us an excellent opportunity to provide support at the highest political level to reach an ambitious comprehensive economic and trade agreement as soon as possible. we will take stock of the progress made during the first three rounds of negotiations but also give new impetus to these negotiations, bearing in mind its importance to expand trade and job creation. on trade more generally, the summit should send a clear signal that the eu and canada reject protectionism, recalling our commitment to reaching an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced conclusion of the doha development round. the summit should also address the subject of reciprocal visa-free travel. our goal is clear: we want visa-free travel to canada for all eu citizens as soon as possible. we will also have a chance to discuss our crisis management cooperation which, i am pleased to say, is expanding rapidly. we have several crisis management operations ongoing, notably our police mission in afghanistan, where our cooperation with canada is exemplary. haiti will also be on the agenda of the summit for obvious reasons. canada plays a very important role in haiti, and one of the areas where we can and should strengthen our joint efforts is in linking crisis management to longer-term development. this was also the point i stressed during the new york conference on haiti on 31 march which was co-chaired by both the eu and canada, along with france, spain and brazil. along with my fellow commissioners for development, andris piebalgs, and for international cooperation, humanitarian aid and crisis response, kristalina georgieva, i was pleased to announce at new york that the eu will contribute over eur 1.2 billion to haiti’s reconstruction and development. the eu and canada both have a long-term commitment to assist haiti on the path to reconstruction; to rebuild for a better future. the summit will cover climate change. taking into account the post-copenhagen context, adaptation to and mitigation of climate change will continue to top the agenda and will require supportive energy policies. there is wide support for the idea that eu-canada cooperation should focus on financing mechanisms as well as on support to third countries’ clean development. the consequence of climate change for the arctic will be another important element of our discussions at the summit. nowhere are the effects of climate change more keenly felt than in the arctic region. environmental changes have a growing impact on the arctic’s people, biodiversity and landscape – both on land and at sea. protecting the region, including its population, is a key objective of the eu’s evolving arctic policy, as honourable members may recall from my presentation during the march plenary session. with more than 40% of its land mass in the north, canada shares our interest in protecting the arctic environment and ensuring the sustainable economic and social development of the region. finally, when we talk about upgrading and modernising the eu-canada relationship, we have the 1976 european community-canada framework agreement. this is still in force but outdated. eu-canada cooperation has extended to other fields such as foreign and security policy and closer cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs. so we need a modernised framework agreement to act as an umbrella for all our sectoral agreements, including the comprehensive economic and trade agreement and we are holding exploratory talks with canada to upgrade that agreement at the present time. in a world of big challenges and where change is constant, we need partners. canada is among the most important the european union has. we aim for a productive summit with clear results.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. as vice-chair of the canadian delegation to the european parliament, i am particularly pleased that we are discussing the forthcoming eu-canada summit in parliament today. unfortunately, as you know, the vote had to be postponed until the beginning of may. i would like to make a few brief comments on the main points of the epp group. canada has been one of the european union's closest and oldest partners since 1959. the european union and canada share many common values and are strongly committed to multilateral responses to global challenges. canada holds the presidency of the g8 in 2010 and will also host the next g20 summit. in view of the ongoing negotiations for a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the european union and canada, it is important to further deepen and strengthen the good relations between the two partners at the forthcoming summit. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. however, we also call for the issue of the partial reintroduction of the visa requirement by the canadian government for eu citizens from the czech republic, bulgaria and romania to be resolved at the forthcoming eu-canada summit. the establishment of a visa office at the canadian embassy in prague and the establishment of a working group of experts on this subject are very welcome in this context. in conclusion, let me reiterate my belief that the forthcoming eu-canada summit will deepen the already close political relations between the two partners. thank you for your commitment and your attention.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the eu and canada have a very well-functioning partnership, not only in the economic field but also in matters of foreign policy - i am thinking of iran, afghanistan, haiti and other similar cases. however, we are faced with a number of serious challenges. we can certainly overcome them, because we have such a close friendship and partnership. i am thinking in particular of five points. first of all, we must now really make heads and nails of the regulation of the financial sector. the g20 has made many promises, and i am convinced that the g20 summit in toronto - under canadian leadership - must now actually show that the g20 countries are taking concrete action and not just making promises. secondly, as has already been said: we are also closely linked in our objectives on climate policy. we in europe can certainly learn from canada in the ccs projects and developments in this sector. we hope that we can agree on common reduction standards. thirdly, we need a new trade agreement, and i believe that our objectives are very close here too. i would like to mention two points where there is still a need for action, where there is an intention to come together, but where we are still somewhat apart. firstly, this is the case with visa-free travel. i hope that we will actually succeed in treating ethnic minorities from eu countries in the same way as all other eu citizens. the last point is the passenger data agreement which expired last autumn. it is still in force de facto, but it no longer has any legal basis. we need a new legal basis for the re-issue, and that new legal basis must ensure that what we consider to be civil rights are actually respected. the modern technological possibilities of networking cannot allow all information concerning names, dates of birth, flight data, credit cards, etc. to be made available and misused. we hope that together we will succeed in creating a legal basis which actually corresponds to our european conception of citizens' rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. canada is a good friend of the eu, an important partner, an important international player, and canada is a long-established democracy from which we can learn a great deal. but precisely because it has been a long time since a resolution on canada was adopted in this house, we should be taking a more serious look at european-canadian relations on the occasion of such a resolution than is being attempted in the resolution before us. i'm a little embarrassed about this. i am embarrassed that many common challenges are mentioned, but arctic policy is not mentioned among these common challenges. the protection of the arctic with targets and standards is not happening. the arctic is only in a footnote, and it will be forgotten that canada did not invite sweden, finland, iceland and the indigenous peoples to the international meeting on the arctic in march in a very unfriendly manner. i am embarrassed that the tar sands problem is not being addressed, that the bluefin tuna problem and the seal hunting ban are not being addressed. it's not that we need to provoke canada, but when you have a serious discussion among friends, it's just unreasonable and unworthy not to talk about the problems you have. it is not mentioned that canada did not play a particularly positive role in copenhagen, and the problem of visa policy, particularly towards the czech republic and the czech roma, should also be emphasized more clearly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them, because the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
member of the commission. − the economic benefits of adopting the euro accrue to both the member states that join the euro area and to the euro area as a whole. detailed analysis and argumentation on this matter can be found, for example, in the commission’s emu@10 report of 2008. under the treaties, all eu member states are obliged to join the euro area once they fulfil the necessary conditions. however, denmark and the united kingdom have negotiated an opt-out clause that allows them to remain outside the euro area. if denmark and the united kingdom decide to apply for membership of the euro area, they will be subject to the same convergence assessment as any other candidate, as happened with other member states that have already joined the euro area. the commission would support their preparations fully, including preparations for the actual cash changeover. sweden does not have an opt-out clause. for the time being, sweden does not fulfil all the criteria for introducing the euro. in particular it is not a member of the exchange rate mechanism tool, and some elements of its central bank legislation would have to be made compatible with euro area membership. nevertheless, the commission considers that those member states not currently in a position to fulfil all convergence criteria for joining the euro should strive to meet these conditions.
i'm not going to tell you. i only have two complementary points. firstly, will the commission not try to encourage sweden to fulfil its obligations? sweden is bound by a contract, and that cannot be interpreted arbitrarily. the second point: what about estonia? do you think estonia will be included in the foreseeable future, this year?
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very sorry that mr kirilov cannot speak in person. he has made a great effort to produce a report for this parliament on a matter of great importance to the regions and to the citizens of the european union. that is why i really want to read his notes. and it's in english, which is always quite surprising for a bulgarian colleague. good thing i don't have to speak bulgarian. i am glad that my vote has allowed him to be represented in parliament, even though he was unable to get a flight to sofia. mr president, i would like to i am glad that this evening we have the opportunity to discuss important amendments to the general regulation on the structural funds. these modifications are a substantial element of the common efforts at european and national level to overcome the consequences of the economic crisis. they are a logical continuation of the documents which we adopted last year. then, as rapporteur on the role of cohesion policy for investment in the real economy, i called on the council and the commission to work towards simplifying the rules of the structural funds and thus facilitating access to these funds when they are most needed by the member states. i am happy that parliament's main recommendations for further simplification have been taken on board. i am convinced that the new changes to the general regulations, simplifying some of the existing procedures, deserve our support. reducing unnecessary administrative burden, red tape and unclear rules will contribute to more transparency, better control and fewer irregularities. this means improved implementation and correct spending on eu money. here is just one example. through the amendment of article 88, the member states are further stimulated to detect and correct irregularities before they are found by the eu controlling institutions. in this case, the member states will not lose the affected money but will be able to use it again for other projects within the relevant programme. the second group of amendments concerns financial management rules. advance payments for countries worst hit by the crisis will be increased for 2010. all member states will receive more time to spend 2007 committed funds for projects, which have not been approved or implemented within the deadlines. both groups of measures are important because of their message to the beneficiaries and because of their practical utility. anti-crisis measures are a clear demonstration of solidarity. they want to bring fresh money for the member states to get out of the crisis. all measures will commit realization of more projects, especially now. this is crucial for the creation of jobs, investment and infrastructure and adaptation of workers and firms to the economic change. both types of measures are useful and more valuable if they are implemented at the right time but they are still awaiting final approval. unfortunately, there was a huge delay in the council for reaching an agreement when it was the leading body for the adoption of the amended regulation. i strongly believe that now that parliament has the same power as the council, we will not postpone any more the approval and entry into force of these long-awaited and needed measures.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let 's get something straight . the simplification that you all praise here means that large-scale waste water treatment plants and huge waste incineration plants no longer have to be approved by the commission for investments of 25 million, as was previously provided for in the regulation, but only for investments of 50 million. this means that for projects under 50 million the commission will no longer consider any cost-benefit analysis, and this may mean that such a cost-benefit analysis will no longer be carried out. unlike in the past, there is no longer any check on whether such projects comply with eu environmental legislation or not. as these projects are partly credit financed, it is not examined whether it is reasonable to impose such a high credit burden on the citizens of the region and how this credit burden is related to the actual benefits for them. this is an attractive business for the banks, because they can collect high fees during the first years of the project. ex-ante examination of major projects has therefore in the past proved essential for the efficient use of european funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are therefore against raising the threshold. we also want to ensure that cost-benefit analyses and compliance with eu legislation are publicly available and that there is no more pretense in this context. the structural funds regulation still suffers from the fact that major projects financed must last only five years from the date of investment. we greens had therefore already called for an extension of ten years in the regulation in order to really bring sustainability to investment and to keep jobs in the region on a permanent basis. more sustainability in the stay of projects in the region would also prevent project operators from receiving european funding and simply disappearing after five years. the nokia case in north rhine-westphalia has shown the damage to regions caused by this so-called subsidy-hopping school. we therefore believe that the sustainability clause should remain in place for small and mediumsized enterprises for five years, rather than just three years as provided for in the amendment. we greens are against this too, because a combination of more generous investment without checks and too short a sustainability period is massively encouraging money to be thrown out the window. we believe that this is unacceptable to the european taxpayer. if our amendments are not accepted, we cannot accept them. we shall also be requesting a roll-call vote so that later, when citizens complain to us that money has been thrown out the window, we can show how the vote was taken. (the speaker agrees to answer a question by means of a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8).)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall be glad to answer that. these are large projects for which investment is simplified. so these are investments of up to 50 million euros, which we have examined so far because we have a responsibility for this tax money. i think that this should remain the case for large projects, because we have seen that often oversized investments are initiated and then ultimately the burden falls on the citizens.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am also here, in a sense, on behalf of my colleague who cannot be here, and i would like to make a few remarks. the first is that we expressly welcome the simplification of the way the structural funds are managed. there may be a number of other things to think about very critically, which mrs schroedter also mentioned, but i think that is not the only thing to be considered. we welcome the simplifications and we also believe that the regulation must be implemented urgently and soon. it's been a long time since i've been in the country. but i don't want to turn my heart into a killing pit. the compromise is not necessarily what we had in mind. as you know, the commission has put forward a different proposal for a limited period of time and for the purpose of labour market policy measures, concerning the one-off payment of 100% of interim payment applications. this was not possible for a number of reasons which were discussed in great detail in the regi committee. however, we must ask ourselves: have we done enough to implement what the commission called in its communication of 3 june 2009: a common commitment to employment to respond to the crisis? the aim was - and this is what we are talking about now - to make the structural funds more effective in dealing with the crisis and to make them more effective. the esf funds in particular are, as everyone knows, a key instrument for investing in citizens, for fighting the crisis and for employment. looking at europe, we see that the impact of the crisis on labour market policy in the countries is immense and that action is indeed needed. unemployment has gone up enormously, and not just in five countries, but in all countries if we look closely. in addition, unemployment plays a major role in other areas, independent of the crisis. in europe we have a very high and growing proportion of unemployed, regardless of the crisis. yes, the alternative proposal now before the commission is certainly a step forward which we welcome, because at least five countries will benefit from a support which is not unimportant, namely those whose gdp has fallen by 10% compared to 2008. these can benefit and benefit from additional pre-financing from the cohesion fund and the esf. that's good, but we want more. you know our position from the committee. so we have a joyful heart and a not-so-joyful heart, but each step forward also moves us forward, and that is the way we should move. (the speaker agrees to answer a question by means of a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8).)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the only question is: why has your group, mrs ernst, not tabled an amendment in the plenary now, when there was a possibility of tabled amendments so that the original commission proposal could be reinstated and perhaps a 100% esf financing could be renegotiated with the council?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs. schroedter, i think we've assessed our chances as limited and as such, off the table. i assume my colleague thought so too. i was very delighted when i looked at the whole commission initiative, but i ended up having to be a little bit lectured in the long discussions i had in the last few days on these matters. i wish i had more. of course, an amendment could have been tabled, and i agree with you, but if we look at each other we know how the whole thing ends, and so the group has refrained from doing so. i'll have to take that into account myself.
member of the commission. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr de castro and mr le foll of the european parliament's committee on agriculture for raising these problems for discussion here in this chamber. indeed, i also have to admit, farmers' incomes fell dramatically in 2009, which was only following the one recorded in 2008. this is therefore a situation which has rarely been encountered on the european market. it comes at a time when this market is increasingly opening up to the world market and after the recent reforms of the common agricultural policy. the crisis has particularly affected the dairy sector. the difficult situation faced by producers in this sector, particularly those in regions where milk production is essential, not only for the agricultural sector but also for economic activity and employment in general in these rural areas, has been seen over the past year. it is against this background that the european commission took action last year, on the one hand by mobilising market intervention mechanisms to stop the fall in prices: it has set aside a large budget, over eur 400 million, to finance these market interventions. but, as mr le foll pointed out, a fund of €300 million has also been mobilised to give member states the opportunity to help the most affected producers in the dairy sector. the decision was taken last year. it gave member states the possibility of setting criteria on the basis of which these funds would be distributed, directing them mainly to the producers who needed them most. i should also point out that these criteria were set by the member states and did not require the approval of the commission. the member states were simply obliged to inform the commission, to notify it of the choice of these criteria. i can tell you that all the member states to my knowledge have informed the commission of their decision to apply these measures. so they have decided on criteria on the basis of which they will distribute these funds and this process of distributing aid is going to start. the member states have until june to distribute the funds. so, as i said, first there was a phase of intervention in the markets to balance their situation. i think that the present situation shows that this intervention has been effective, since prices have stabilized. of course, there are still variations, but they are within reasonable limits, within the normal limits of the market. then there are the aid measures that will soon be coming to the producers. that's for the measures that have already been taken. i would like to repeat here what i said recently before the european parliament's committee on agriculture: as a commissioner, i want to draw lessons from the specific situation we experienced last year. i do not want to wait for the reform of the cap until after 2013, when, of course, we will have more consistent responses for the whole agricultural sector. i will not wait until the 2013 cap reform is due to make specific proposals for the dairy sector, on the basis of the conclusions of the high-level group set up last year in the wake of this crisis and which is currently working. the group will present its conclusions in june. i shall propose a debate on the basis of these conclusions to the council of agriculture ministers and to parliament's committee on agriculture in july. then, by the autumn, by the end of the year, i shall come up with proposals which will enable us - especially in the dairy sector, since that is where we have had the most difficult situation - to foresee and, as far as possible, avoid such crisis situations, and thus to propose solutions, not only for the short term, but also for the medium and long term. of course, we will also draw lessons from this for other agricultural sectors where we will have to intervene. i may have the opportunity to give you some information as a result of the debates we are having today. the commission is very attentive to market developments in the other sectors. on the basis of the intervention elements we currently have at our disposal, mechanisms for intervention on the markets, used in particular as safety nets, we will ensure that situations similar to those which have struck the dairy sector do not recur. thank you very much. i shall be very attentive to the questions and problems you will raise and i shall come back to the end with some elements.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner cioloş, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the fundamental reorientation of agricultural policy towards more market goods is the right decision, and the increasing interconnection of the european agricultural economy with world goods is also the right decision. by 2007, early 2008, the first successes of this policy were clearly visible. european agricultural policy has become relatively cheaper, there has been little market intervention and farmers have had stable and rising incomes. but we are now seeing the downsides of this reorientation, namely, sharp price fluctuations and falling incomes for farmers. both farmers and agricultural policy makers will have to deal more with the strong fluctuations in producer prices in all sectors, i.e. not just the milk sector. to cope better with extreme market failures, agricultural policy needs instruments that can respond quickly, consistently and without red tape. i therefore call for measures such as intervention or export subsidies not to be abolished but to be set at zero in budgetary terms. these instruments should be used only in exceptional situations and not permanently interfere with market developments, but when we need them they must be ready to be used. but we must also find measures for the professions to ensure that there is a virtual equality of arms on the market. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i hope that the commission will keep its promise to consider better regulatory conditions and to take swift action whenever necessary to prevent serious damage to farmers and consumers.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. we cannot all take comfort in the fact that we will find a big solution to the agricultural crisis in 2013, but we must give answers now. i think we're in agreement on that. the protests can also move very quickly back here to brussels. we have to give answers. the milk sector is essentially in need of a policy adjustment. i was at the high level group conference and i found the answers given to the milk crisis interesting but far from sufficient. if you have to make a policy correction, you have to question the recent decisions to get out of the regulatory loop. because at the end of this process, you can say that the exit from the quota did not end with a soft landing, but with a very hard landing. we must now think urgently: how can we set standards again, how can we bring the state - that is, the european union - back into play, so that we can give clearer rules for markets? markets do not work by themselves. this is the answer to the financial crisis, and this is also the answer to the agricultural crisis: we have to make rules. we are currently facing a maddening process of concentration in agriculture. i am concerned to read in the newspaper that in the south of england stalls of the order of 8,000 cows are being built, while many small farms in less-favoured areas are closing their farms. this is a development which is not leading to a european agricultural model but to a, let us say, american agricultural model with ever larger structures, which will eventually and finally lead to the loss of many dairy farms in europe. these are also jobs, you have to see this over and over again. mr jahr, we agree on one point, although not on the point that it is right to orient agricultural policy towards the world market. we need a clear legal position for the farmers. they are the weakest link in trade, they are the first to have to wipe out the dumping that is being done in many areas. we agree that we urgently need a clear political guideline on how we can regulate markets better in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not regulated when we regulate our markets. we have gone too far in recent years in abandoning many of the rules of the market. let us look at other countries - and the high level group should do the same - and see how they are regulated elsewhere. the only thing that can be said is that the canadian model has proved to be a successful model for many farmers and for many consumers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the course of policy adjustment we must also be careful to make policy for regional markets - always giving it the weight and not just looking at the 5% of products traded on the world market. it is not possible that we should regard export subsidies and intervention as normal rules of market intervention in the future. we must say goodbye to that once and for all.
the commission has already done so. i have an analysis of the economic situation of german agriculture. the survey covered 19 100 accounts of agricultural holdings and subsidiary holdings. the results are representatively extrapolated from the distribution of holdings according to the 2007 agricultural structure survey. in the 2008/2009 marketing year, the average situation deteriorated considerably. the 18 200 main industrial holdings, milk and arable farms, were evaluated, and the decrease was from 45 400 to 34 400 euros. that's minus 24 percent of the time. the losses were particularly high in 2008-2009. their company results fell to eur 29 300, or minus 45%, or eur 43 000, or minus 18%. the processing companies , on the other hand , account for ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. i have been informed that the commission is preparing a report on the situation in the community. i would also like to say again that i think it is a rather difficult procedure to have a debate without those present whom we are supposed to discharge, with whom we want to discuss the reasons why we are discharging or postponing discharge or what other things we have to discuss with them. i know many of the esteemed colleagues in the chamber from the committee. we also know each other's views. it's nice that we're exchanging them again this morning, but it's not really helping. in this context, i would suggest that we should discuss in committee whether to formally invite the institutions we are talking about to the next discharge debate and to postpone the debates accordingly if they are not present. the discharge of the european institutions comes at a difficult but important moment. the financial crisis has meant that all governments have had to review their budgets and ensure that their tasks are effective. we are in the first year of a european parliamentary term and we are dealing with a newly constituted commission. however, we are looking at the 2008 budget under the responsibility of the last commission when we discharge. this opens up a lot of new perspectives. among these new perspectives is that we should expect a new way of thinking and approach from the member states, because the lisbon treaty names them for the first time as co-responsible for implementing the eu budget. with regard to the 2008 budget review, the rapporteur's intention was to ensure that the commission focuses fully on the possibilities for improving budgetary control and involves the member states. it is our aim as the s&d group in the committee on budgetary control that in future every discharge report based on the judgment of the european court of auditors be better than the previous one. the council must assume its new key role in the light of the importance of the member states. it would also be helpful if the court of auditors looked for ways to overcome the imbalance between the annual reporting on the one hand and the multiannual duration of many eu programmes and the logic of their implementation by the commission and the member states on the other. as the budgetary authority, we continue to have serious concerns about some specific areas of responsibility, and particularly those where the eu wants to implement its political priorities. to name just a few: cohesion in the european union is essential and therefore the financial resources that flow into structural policy are particularly important. we need to continue to fight the sources of error decisively by simplifying the rules and continuing to recover funds wrongly spent. we need better instruments to measure success and we are asking the court of auditors to develop these instruments so that we can identify precisely the sources of error. we know that the action plan for the structural funds, which provides for recovery, is finally being implemented and we must now await its effects. the aim of pre-accession assistance is to enable fundamental change processes in these countries and problems in targeting and implementation need to be addressed. what is not possible is that the objective of the accession process is being torpedoed through the back door. i therefore ask the house to reject the attempt by the epp group to reverse the ep's position on turkey's accession process, as stated in the resolution on the progress report, by amending the discharge report. we look forward to the appointment of a new director-general of the olaf anti-fraud office to end the ongoing debate, and to the commission's proposals for reforming olaf to improve the crucial work of this office. finally, the foreign policy actions. the eu must demonstrate its determination to contribute to solving the world's problems. these actions must be highly effective, even under the most difficult conditions. we need to talk to the commission in the coming months about the current management of eu funds in this area and how these funds will be managed in the future by the european external action service. but we're also making progress. our group is particularly pleased with the steps taken by the commission, for example, with regard to the annual management declarations of the member states, because this brings us closer to the realization of an old demand of the s&d group. the same applies to financial corrections and recoveries, because this too is a way of reducing an unacceptably high error rate. these points, among other things, give us the opportunity, despite some reservations, to ask the commission for a discharge. i thank you and look forward to your comments.
member of the commission. − mr president, allow me to thank the committee on budgetary control and in particular the rapporteur mr liberadzki and his fellow rapporteurs on the reports they have produced and for the recommendations to grant the discharge to the commission for the 2008 financial year. i would also like to thank mrs ayala sender for her report on the implementation of the european development fund and mrs mathieu for her comprehensive analysis of recurrent issues for agencies. the 2008 discharge procedure is now reaching its end. it was an intensive period but, most importantly, the start of a new constructive dialogue between our institutions. achieving an unqualified statement of assurance from the court of auditors remains the commission’s collegial objective. i believe this has been clearly demonstrated in our recent efforts. progress is already under way, with simplifications introduced and better management and control systems under the 2007-13 programming period and the various action plans gradually showing their positive impact on the error rates. a substantial step change will be possible with a new generation of programmes for the next financial period currently under preparation; these should aim at better balancing targeted eligibility criteria, cost of control and quality of spending. however, with my fellow commissioners, i share the wish expressed in your discharge resolution: we want to see, soon, a measurable acceleration of the progress made over the last years in improving the financial management of the european budget, including the reinforcement of the main stakeholders’ responsibility and accountability. close and intense cooperation between the commission and the european parliament is instrumental in this respect. however, we all know that it will not be sufficient to accelerate concrete and sustainable progress on the spot. in order to succeed we need a new partnership with all stakeholders, not least the active involvement of the member states and the european court of auditors. the commission will not wait until the amendments to the financial regulation enter into force to invite the member states’ authorities to fully resume their responsibilities as reinforced under the lisbon treaty, anticipating measures which are essential to improving financial management. i also consider that the court of auditors has a crucial role in expressing its independent assurance statement on the commission’s financial management. any change in the splitting of the das by area would change the share of the budget associated with the different colour areas. the commission would very much welcome it if, in the near future, the court of auditors were to consider a distinction between areas where the risk of error is different and informs us about the actual added value of the management and control systems introduced in the 2007-13 legislation. i hope as well that, when the co-legislator has agreed on a tolerable risk of error, the court of auditors will consider this new concept in the way it finds appropriate. as requested, the commission will prepare and send to the parliament a new agenda for 2010 onwards. the commission will do its utmost, together with the other actors involved, to accelerate the reduction of error rates so as to ensure that a further 20% of the budget can be given a green classification by the european court of auditors in 2014. the involvement of all stakeholders in the common objective of improving financial management and protecting the union’s financial interests will be at the heart of this new agenda, which i will share with you already next month. your considerations expressed in the 2008 discharge resolution will be duly taken into account. i am looking forward to constructive discussions.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. in the financial year 2008, payments amounting to some eur 5 billion were made in the policy areas for which the foreign affairs committee is responsible. the continuing underfinancing of category iv is also confirmed in retrospect. the court found some inaccuracies and found the commission's monitoring and control systems for external assistance, development aid and pre-accession aid to be only partially effective. the commission refers to the specific, purely annual approach of the court of auditors, which can only assess a part of the commission's work at any one time, and this is due to the multiannual nature of most programmes and the control systems attached to them. what's important is, from my point of view: the court of auditors does not speak of fraud or embezzlement. it is about the careful, effective and timely handling of eu external aid, and about the demanding documentation and accounting, because it is annoying when projects are not completed on time or their success is unclear. it jeopardizes the success of our foreign policy. the court's finding of declining error rates is therefore a tribute to the work of the previous commission in external aid, development cooperation and enlargement policy. it seems that changes in the legal framework are also beginning to take effect. the special report on pre-accession assistance to turkey provides initial evidence of improved management of the use of funds made possible by the new early access instrument since 2007. future accounts and audits must inform how beneficiaries are handling eu aid responsibly and successfully. our foreign policy must be flexible enough to ensure that we can effectively pursue our foreign interests. we therefore call on the commission to make a thorough effort to improve the budgetary system, the new financial framework, the budgetary reform and, above all, the establishment of the european external action service. but overall, i can recommend discharge for the committee on foreign affairs for the financial year 2008.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we've had an interesting morning together. actually, i was going to make a very different speech. i'm not doing that now because i don't think we should just walk away from what happened today. we are dealing with the fact that the discharge is not being taken seriously in any way by this house or by the other institutions. the only institution which has to take it seriously is the commission. it is also explicitly mentioned in the contract as the addressee and the party to whom the discharge is to be granted. the question of discharge is not settled by treaty for all the others, namely the other institutions. this is a problem for us. now we have to imagine that in two years' time the european external action service will not be sitting here when it becomes an institution. and then we have what we have now, namely that all the other institutions do not even feel it necessary to come here and listen to what parliament has to say to them as budgetary legislator. the council is now making a welcome exception this year, as the swedish presidency did last year. if we base what is happening here on the fundamental right of parliament to discharge, then i can only warn against putting into practice the proposal now on the table, namely to transform the foreign service into an institution, because that would be the end of our influence, because it is so easy to evade that influence. the only other institution represented is parliament. i would like to thank the president of parliament in particular for his defence of our rights this morning and also for his willingness to engage in talks with all the others. what good is it to have a right of relief if we do not take it seriously and if we do not force others to take it seriously? that is why we must think very carefully about the discharge procedure itself. we cannot continue as we have done so far! i would like to take the initiative and address the council again. the council is now an institution after lisbon, and the president of the council is also an institution. we expect this to be legalised as a matter of urgency in budgetary law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you must legalize your conditions, and i urge you to do so!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to raise just one point, one point which is truly a scandal. it's about the center for disease prevention and control, the ecdc in stockholm. since may 2005, highly qualified people have been forced to work in a completely hostile environment. the swedish government has not yet managed to conclude a headquarters agreement with the ecdc, but they have wanted this agency very much, as all member states have always wanted an agency. to date, the staff do not have a personal identification number, the so-called "folkbokföringsnummer". this number is used by public administrations, institutions and private companies to identify their customers. the consequences are: for example, children born in sweden cannot be registered, electricity, gas, telecommunications and television providers refuse to provide their services, landlords refuse long-term leases, and there are problems with access to doctors and hospitals. the spouses are told that it is impossible for them to become selfemployed in sweden. there are also enormous difficulties in getting a job. this list can be extended. the fact is that some basic rights enshrined in european law are simply denied to ecdc staff in sweden. that's what got this whole thing before our petition committee. this is an untenable situation which... (the president cut the speaker off)
we will consult the council on whether it considers intervention necessary.
mr president, i would ask you to speak on the rules of procedure.
you have rightly said that mr lópez garrido is on the list of speakers. we'll see about that. he has the same freedom of speech as you do.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i am delighted to be here in this debate, even though i was not formally invited. i have not been formally invited by the european parliament to attend this debate, but when i heard that the european parliament and some of its members wanted me to be here, i was immediately pleased to attend. i believe that the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2008 has been correct and this is reflected in the court of auditors' annual report. there have been some speeches - for example by mr søndergaard - in which there has been talk of transparency, of the absence of transparency or of an insufficient level of transparency. i want to be very clear on this point: the council considers that it is absolutely transparent in the way it implements its budget and therefore that it is correctly applying the requirements made, the requirements of the financial regulation. in addition, as you know, the council publishes on its website a report on the financial management of the previous year. i would draw your attention to the fact that, at present, the council is the only institution to have published a preliminary report on the 2009 accounts for public disclosure. the president of coreper and the secretary-general of the council also met a delegation from the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament a few days ago, on 15 march. during that meeting all the information required in the light of the issues raised by parliament's committee on budgetary control in relation to the implementation of the council's 2008 budget was given. mr gerbrandy was asking about the need to develop mutual control between the two institutions on budgetary matters without 'gentlemen's agreement'. that's what mr. gerbrandy used to say. if the european parliament wants to revise that agreement, the council would be prepared to consider it, to discuss a new agreement, based on reciprocity between the two institutions. there is therefore no problem in discussing this situation and, if necessary, reaching a new agreement which improves, if possible, the one that exists at the moment. this is what the council would like to say in connection with the debate this morning. i am very grateful for the oral invitation to be here, but, again, i was not formally invited to this session.
thank you, minister. i am very grateful that you have so kindly complied with our request. i would like to say that the commission has never been formally invited to this meeting either. i have been a member of this house for some time now and i have observed that in cases such as yours, the presence of the council - even if it is not necessary - contributes greatly to the success of a presidency. i would like to thank you again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commission representatives and especially the council, ladies and gentlemen! every year we hear in the debate about improvements in the way european funds are distributed: more correct and efficient control of expenditure by all the institutions and bodies, more transparency for parliament and also for the citizens. the first sign that something is changing in the council is the presence of the council. very well, we are glad you heard that, but that is not enough for us. the very difference you have mentioned - that you think you have established complete transparency, and we think you have not yet answered our questions from the debate at the end of november - this very discrepancy shows that we are not yet cooperating properly and as it should be. you have spoken of the 1970 agreement which you want to correct and rework. that's very nice, but this expectation of us is not new. we've mentioned this a few times, and just now you've acted like it was a brand-new thing. the s&d group will support mr czarnecki's report. we share his criticism and that of other groups. we will not be exonerating the council, not today, not next month. i am therefore surprised by mrs andreasen's proposal, because i am of course of the opinion that the member states are responsible for 80% of the funds. this does not relieve the council of its responsibilities, because the council is not a fourth or fifth institution in the eu, but it works with the member states. i agree with our criticism, but it is not consistent. mr audy said that we must develop our instruments further. every year we show the council the yellow card of non-discharge and nothing happens. we must therefore develop our instruments not only of concrete criticism but also of the consequences of the council's failure to cooperate with us. this may involve constitutional amendments.
i thank you very much, mrs weiler. ladies and gentlemen, i have just reassured myself in the rules of procedure that it is not foreseen that we shall sing hymns in the plenary without the conference of presidents having been consulted beforehand. but i'm not forbidden to congratulate a colleague. mr chatzimarkakis, who will now have the floor for two and a half minutes, has a birthday today. i'm very happy for you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to you, mr president. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very important one. the question of how europe is run with taxpayers' hard-earned money is central to the acceptance of the european project. i would like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs for their work. but i see light and shadow in the reports. i see light in the overall budgetary management. the eu has now become a rule-based system wherever it controls and manages the funds. whether it's efficient is another matter entirely. we should be more concerned as the european parliament with policy efficiency, policy issues and implementation, especially in the context of agenda 2020. there are shadows in the area of cohesion policy. 11% of things not in line with the rules this percentage is too high! this is why it is so important that the eu does more to recover funds that have been wrongly and incorrectly paid. parliament has also recognised this. the committee on budgetary control has therefore adopted an amendment tabled by alde. we want the money back 100%! i have the honour of being rapporteur for the discharge to the european commission for 2010. this will not be an easy task, given the delay in the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. we must be particularly careful to ensure that the new responsibilities of individual commissioners do not lead to more opacity and a greater concealment of responsibilities. we must and will examine this carefully. let me pick two areas: the first is the so-called non-governmental organizations, the second is the gentlemen's agreement. between 2008 and 2009, the european union paid out over 300 million euros in funds to the so-called ngo. among them are such honorable organizations as the german world hunger aid. but there are also those who want to destroy the reputation of the european union, namely the counterbalance, who have attacked the european investment bank. this is unacceptable and we must deal with it. we need a register and a definition of such ngos, because that's where a lot of taxpayers' money goes. i would like to thank mr lópez garrido for the gentlemen's agreement. i want to thank you for coming. i would also like to make this point as a historical element: that we are questioning and revising the gentlemen's agreement after 40 years, that will be a big step. but it is also a necessary step, given our importance under the new lisbon treaty. we must ensure transparency, both within ourselves and within the council!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i should like to address the problems of development aid, which are almost always criticised by the court of auditors, and thank you for the excellent cooperation with mrs ayala sender, which was extremely pleasant. firstly, the problem of budgetary aid arises regularly. this means that even in countries where we try to help the people a little, there is a suspicion that the budgetary aid is used by corrupt and totalitarian systems, sometimes even to suppress unfriendly groups of the population or even critical people. i am extremely critical of this budgetary aid, and i think it should be reduced or withdrawn for those countries where we are clearly having problems with the use of the budgetary aid. secondly, we still have the problem of the fact that payments are often affected by errors, that there is a lack of coordination and targeting of development aid projects in a country between the different institutions and levels, and that there is no clear prioritization. it is essential to give priority to achieving greater sustainability and effectiveness of projects in those countries where people are actually suffering from dire hardship. i also believe that it is still necessary to integrate development aid and development funds in general into the general budget. i would like to say something about the pre-accession aid for turkey. i was surprised to see that the normal criticism which would have led to the blocking and withholding of funds in other countries was so quickly - i say it now - leading to a hiccup in cooperation between turkey and the commission. i think it is perfectly normal to define the strategy and objectives first, then the timeframes, the project orientation, the measurement criteria and then the performance monitoring. but if all this is lacking and projects are carried out and then declared successful, i have problems with the way the programme is being carried out. i therefore personally felt it necessary to withhold at least part of the funds until it was properly ensured that the funds were properly spent. we have now reached a compromise, but i think it is necessary to continue with the problem, because other countries such as bulgaria, romania and greece are being dealt with very harshly. i think it is necessary, however, that at least everyone should be treated equally and not differently. i would ask that a medium-term building strategy be provided for in the field of building policy by means of a clear construction and financial planning. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if we're such large institutions, then we need buildings, and they need to be carefully planned and transparent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr president, i am very pleased that you are here to express the council's appreciation of this important debate. i am not going to go into detail. we all know this nice trick: if you want to embarrass someone, you ask them a question that uses a phrase such as, "do you still beat your children?" other because even if the person you're talking to denies it, he's implicitly admitted that he beat his children in the past. the report by mr staes on the discharge to parliament, for whose work i am very grateful, is a critical report and has therefore, at least in my view, followed some of this logic. self-criticism is good, but it should be accurate. i have had many discussions in my group on how we could reject this or that wording in the report on parliament's discharge. some of us have been under considerable pressure in our home countries. but i will not withhold my answers to these questions, namely why we rejected certain phrases in the report on parliament's discharge. there are proposals which are already reality. it can be re-decided, but why? there are proposals which are not helpful, such as the idea of making the committee on budgetary control a kind of second internal audit body or a mediator between the bureau and the plenary. there are many good proposals in this report, but all of them have been accepted. there are also proposals in this report which reflect only a partial reality, such as the one in amendment no 26, which calls for the establishment of an internal control system among the political groups in this house. nothing should be more obvious. but this has long been the s&d group's reality. so if my group were to agree to this, we would be acting as if we needed to catch up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore suggest that the following wording be added to this section: 'as it is the fact in the s&d group'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. a few remarks on the use of european funds in the enlargement process. we have had to evaluate a special report by the court of auditors on the use of pre-accession aid to turkey. the committee on budgetary control is very disappointed with the results of the court of auditors' report. the funds were used by the commission in the past period without a strategy and effective monitoring of success, and in particular the lack of a concrete link between the projects and the progress towards accession. even with the new ipa instrument, which will be applicable from 2007, the court does not consider itself in a position to assess the effectiveness of the funds used. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. the committee was at first at a loss. where and when is political influence on the use of pre-accession aid possible, especially since the next evaluation of the court can only take place from 2012 onwards? the committee on budgetary control therefore calls on the commission to revise the ipa programme swiftly. and until we can assess progress, we are also calling for a freeze on the funds at the 2006 annual level. but there is a compromise. we also urge that the instrument for pre-accession assistance should be applied flexibly, including to specific forms of membership or cooperation or neighbourhood or similar. the eu is a major player in the world economy, and the eu is a major player in the world economy. the greens and the left are now criticising us for claiming that we are interfering in foreign policy and that turkey is being given special treatment. no, if we don't respond to obvious deficiencies here, we'll grant special treatment. if we make exceptions for turkey, we can also stop the work for croatia, romania, bulgaria or greece with budgetary control. it's the same subject. i ask the commission not to turn a blind eye to turkey just because it is turkey. i would like to ask you to support more fully the approach of turkey to the criteria of accession which the community has set itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to comment on the subject of pre-entry assistance. the court of auditors clearly states in its report that it is not in a position to demonstrate the proper use of funds on the basis of the existing programmes. the european commission has therefore set up programmes which cannot be controlled and whose effectiveness we cannot verify. the committee on budgetary control has made a clear statement in its opinion, and now there is an incredible amount of lobbying on the turkish side. the question of budgetary discharge is not about whether turkey should join or not. the point here is not whether we want to please representatives of other friendly states or not, but whether we want to check whether the programmes are really effective, that the money also reaches the people for whom it is intended and not just disappears somewhere. and it is also about the proper management of the tax money of european citizens. i would therefore be very grateful if the majority of the house could make a proper decision at the vote, if it is finally due.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are talking about the discharge for the 2008 budget, but discharge is always an opportunity to look ahead, and i think that in this context we must particularly focus on the many agencies we have set up. we must certainly provide these agencies with financial resources, but we must also ensure that they can work in terms of content. i am thinking here of the echa agency, which is responsible for chemistry, which is to take on other tasks in the future, and which is to be responsible for biocides. we must ensure that efficient, forward-looking work is carried out, which is also in line with our policy, and i therefore ask that we all make sure that these agencies can continue to work efficiently and well for us in the future.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, i have to say something. i am speaking on behalf of our rapporteur, mr bogusław liberadzki, who, like many others in this house this week, has been a victim of the traffic problems. i am very happy to do so and i would like to take this opportunity to respond again to some of the comments made in the debate. first of all, commissioner šemeta: you have, to my great satisfaction, highlighted that the commission will take steps to further strengthen the accountability of the main actors in the management of eu funds. we all know what that means. we all know that this means that we must make it more clear to the member states of the european union, which manage a large part of european funds, that they must do so in accordance with all the rules of the art, because we all know that the majority of the mistakes made in the use of european funds are made by the member states and at this level. that is why it is rather unsatisfactory for me to hear in the debate from colleagues from the ecr and the epp groups, who, apart from mr czarnecki, are all committed to other commitments, that the commission is being criticised in strong terms and that it is being refused discharge. i would expect from the members that there is a strong support here for the national management declarations to be enforced in this house and also in the member states because mistakes are made and there is insufficient cooperation. it is therefore quite unsatisfactory to hear from colleagues in the ecr group that everything that is happening here is substandard, knowing full well that the responsibility lies elsewhere. i want to go back to the pre-entry assistance because i think there is still a lot to be done. i would remind you that the committee on budgetary control followed the rapporteur's opinion by a narrow majority. i would also like to point out that in the course of the reporting the representative of the european court of auditors made every effort to remind the rapporteur that his report was about the commission's behaviour and that it was the commission's behaviour that should be criticised, not turkey's behaviour. the epp colleagues have tabled amendments to the commission's discharge, which we wish to withdraw now because it is obviously less about the use of taxpayers' money than about the direction of the accession negotiations with turkey. deciding that at this point is the wrong way to go.
i'm sorry to say that the services have informed me that they have been looking at the records of the last few years. the council has so far only taken a position and appeared in the debate once in the last legislature, and only in a second reading, because the original discharge was postponed in 2009 and the council was only present at the second reading. so the perception that we are on the road to recovery is certainly not wrong. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the may part-session. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to counter my predecessors on one point: my interest is not in an agreement as soon as possible, but in an agreement as good as possible. quality must come before time. i would like to make one more preliminary remark: the european parliament has already rejected an agreement before, and one aspect, in addition to the many substantive reasons, was the non-participation of the european parliament. we have decided not to take any decisions in this parliament this week for the current situation. and there is the resolution asking the council to postpone its decisions until we have taken our decisions. i am a little surprised that there are members of this house who do not seem to take these decisions seriously, but think: 'oh yes, the council can still decide.' i don't think that's the way to handle your own decisions. i am not going to go into the details of the matter, but i would like to ask the council to withdraw its decision until after 6 may, when we have decided. i am sure that this will not be detrimental to the cause and the united states would also understand. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would like to make it clear, however, that this negotiating mandate has yet to undergo substantial changes. these are necessary if the european parliament has to give its majority to a new agreement. i am convinced that the present mandate is not ambitious enough to achieve this. the problem of mass data transfer is still unsolved. if the us authorities tell us that we are talking about specific data on five to ten people a month, then the transmission of data on european citizens by the millions is certainly not proportionate to this purpose. i would also like to say to the commission and the council: the continually claimed vital importance of this agreement as an additional measure to combat terrorism is not so clearly demonstrated as we are repeatedly told. the long retention period of data in the usa is also a problem. the mandate does not provide a solution here either. we need a judicial authority on european soil which will not only review the us request for its legality but also the extraction of data wherever it takes place. the transfer of information to third countries must also be governed by clear guidelines. we need an ambitious, ambitious mandate with our demands. only then can we achieve a really good result, which takes account of our demands both for counter-terrorism and for data protection. finally, a specific question to the council and the commission: how do you intend to ensure that only the data specifically requested is actually extracted and passed on? how can that be? in the u.s.? or are there other suggestions?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to thank the presidency and commissioner malmström for her comments. the presidency has just said it right: the tftp agreement on the exchange of swift banking data is about principles. it is a matter of fundamental constitutional principles, yes, it is a matter of the protection of privacy, article 8 of the charter of the european union and also article 8 of the european convention on human rights. but it is also about effective legal protection and due process, articles 6 and 13 of the european convention on human rights. it is a question of genuine proportionality in the constitutional sense, and i emphasize the constitutional sense, because it is not a question of merely finding a sense of proportionality, but we need actual evidence of the necessity, of the appropriateness of a measure and ultimately also of the proportionality of it. i must make clear once again what other experts and even the investigating authorities have said time and again. whether the mass transfer of personal data without any concrete initial suspicion is at all appropriate, and whether there are not significantly less intensive interventions that would be sufficient to pursue these objectives, is in my view not sufficiently substantiated. without a prior decision in each individual case on the basis of the suspicions at hand, there can be no proportionate access to the banking data of european citizens. it is therefore necessary to ensure that no mass transfer takes place. otherwise, this agreement would mean a breach of existing european and international treaties, and this is exactly what most european supreme courts have made very clear in their judgments so far - in particular the german federal constitutional court in march - when it came to data retention. the european parliament cannot and must not therefore compromise its previous positions, but must ensure that the negotiations are compatible with eu law, both during and after the negotiations, including, if necessary, by submitting the mandate and the results of the negotiations to the european court of justice. i therefore ask the commission and the council to make clear the conditions of parliament vis-à-vis the united states and to put the required evidence of proportionality clearly on the table. otherwise, parliament cannot continue to give its consent to a tftp agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank commissioner malmström very much. the negotiating mandate now presented shows above all that the commission and parliament are back on the same page and that cooperation, as it should be, has at least been inaugurated. the fact that the european parliament rejected the agreement in february - and i say this to all those who have called it a show of strength - has nothing to do with showing strength, it is taking responsibility. the european parliament has a duty to act in the interests of the citizens of europe. the negotiations now under way on the new agreement on bank data transfers will, above all, answer the question of gretchen: dear parliament, dear european union, what do you think of the respect? respect for each other, respect for citizens and respect for european legislation. we have been able to incorporate a great deal of what is important to us into this negotiating mandate. the resolution we are going to adopt in may also reflects a great deal of what is specifically concerned with the protection of our citizens, both their data and their legal protection, including extraterritorial protection, especially where their rights could be violated extraterritorially. there has been a lot of talk about the transfer of aggregated data, so-called bulk data transfers. what we have to make clear is that the final mandate must state how and when this problem will be solved. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. the european parliament's resolution emphasizes this in two points, the negotiating mandate in one. i am confident that the commission will resolve this in a wise way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. unlike my predecessor, i would like to express my gratitude to both commissioner malmström and commissioner reding for the intensive efforts they have made to address the issues raised by parliament and the problems we have seen and are seeing in the area of data security and confidentiality in order to negotiate with the united states. i am also grateful that the mandate has already addressed or considered the main issues discussed by the members and that it also addresses in particular issues of transparency and reciprocity. i also think that it is very important to be able to negotiate the five-year period for the deletion of data, because it is not possible to collect data for an indefinite period. i also think it is important to discuss the issue of possible fines in the case of intentional extraction for wrong purposes, which may be of a sensitive nature, because this prevents the extraction of certain things that we do not want to see extracted, but only the targeting of terrorism. but what is still important to me is the issue that we have to deal with our own tftp and that we are no longer transferring what is called bulk data, that is, large amounts of data to the united states, in the long term. this is not a matter of mistrust, but ultimately of our desire to take our own responsibility within europe itself in the long term, and then to exchange only the specific data extracted for the fight against terrorism, and then to achieve real reciprocity. in this context, i would ask the commission once again to consider how the issue of a tftp of its own is viewed within the commission and in the joint discussion with the council.
acting president of the council. - madam president, in accordance with the lisbon treaty, the presidency of the council has presented to parliament two agreements on the use of passenger name record data, the so-called 'pnr agreements', one from 2007 with the united states and the other from 2008 with australia, and the european parliament has been asked to give its approval to both agreements so that they can enter into force definitively, as they are currently being applied on a merely provisional basis. it is for the european parliament, in accordance with the lisbon treaty, to decide whether or not to approve these agreements which determine the conditions under which the name records of passengers on airplanes flying from the european union can be shared with third countries. the council understands the european parliament's concerns - in line with what we have been discussing earlier - precisely about the collection and sharing of such personal data, data which have to do with the fact that a person is included in a list of passengers to fly, to move outside the european union, and that is why the council has asked the commission to present a general guidance document in this regard. i must say that the draft resolution we have seen seems to us to be very correct, and we are also satisfied that there is a constructive attitude in the sense that, for the time being, there is no vote on the agreements and that, in addition, the draft resolution calls for an appropriate mechanism to be set up for the review of the agreements. in the case of the united states, it is true that there is already a report on the review of the way the agreement is working and when the commission proposes and presents its recommendations for a new agreement with the united states the council's position will be made clear. and in the case of the agreement with australia there has not yet been a review of its operation either. it will also be for the commission to decide whether it expects to have that review of the agreement before launching a new negotiating mandate. when the commission proposes new negotiating mandates with the united states and australia, the council will give them careful consideration. and it will of course take into account, as always, the wishes of the european parliament in this respect. as regards the council's request to the commission for a broader, more general regulation on the use of passenger name record data, it should be recalled that the commission had already proposed a framework decision in 2007, although the decision was taken during the swedish presidency not to continue the debate on that framework decision, since the swedish presidency thought, with good judgment, that the treaty of lisbon was going to enter into force and that, therefore, what was to be the subject of a european parliament codecision had to be taken by the european parliament. the presidency cannot therefore at this stage take a position on the content of a future general regime for the data of passengers who are on a list and who travel outside the european union until the commission proposes the directive on the use of such data and it is discussed with this parliament in a codecision procedure, which it is since the treaty of lisbon entered into force on 1 december. in any case, we must say that we are quite in line and in tune in this respect with the criteria and the guidelines which can be deduced from the draft - at the moment only draft - resolution of the european parliament, and which has three elements which i would stress: firstly, that the data can only be used for the purpose for which they were obtained, in a similar way to what we said earlier precisely in relation to the swift agreement; secondly, that the collection of such data must be in accordance with data protection legislation; and, furthermore, that there is a series of guarantees and safeguards with regard to the transfer of such data to third countries. these are three important principles which are in the draft resolution and we share them in that sense.
member of the commission. − madam president, the importance of collecting pnr data is acknowledged by a growing number of countries in the world, including eu member states. they use such data to combat terrorism and other serious crimes. to ensure that basic principles of data protection are respected and that pnr data is only used for specific law enforcement purposes, the eu has signed agreements with a number of countries on the transfer and the use of pnr data. two of these agreements, with the us and australia, are before you for consent to conclude them. with your resolution you propose to postpone the vote on the consent and you call upon the commission to propose a series of requirements for all pnr agreements with third countries. you also call upon the commission to renegotiate these two agreements on the basis of new negotiating directives which should meet those requirements. i think that is a wise strategy. in your resolution you also refer to the pnr agreement with canada. that agreement was linked to a set of canadian commitments and a commission adequacy decision. these documents expired on 22 september last year and a new agreement should therefore be renegotiated with canada. for practical reasons it was not possible to do this before september 2009. however, this does not diminish the level of protection of pnr data transferred to canada. the pnr agreement itself does not have an expiry date; it has never been terminated and thus continues to be in force. the canada border services agency has confirmed in a letter to the commission, to the council presidency and the member states that its commitments will remain in full effect until a new agreement is in force. i would like to thank the rapporteur ms sophia in ’t veld and the other political groups for their constructive approach on these files, under which the agreements with the us and australia remain provisionally applicable until their renegotiation. i will in the meantime propose a set of three recommendations for negotiation directives to the council as a part of a pnr package. the package will consist firstly of a communication on a global external pnr strategy, including a set of general requirements that any pnr agreement with a third country should observe; secondly, two negotiating directives for the renegotiation of the us and australia pnr agreements, and negotiating directives for a new agreement with canada; and, thirdly, a new commission eu pnr proposal based on an impact assessment. this package will take due care of your recommendations as presented in this resolution, but also in the resolutions of november 2008. moreover, it will take due account of the advice of the european data protection supervisor, the article 29 working party on data protection and the national data protection authorities. i believe it is important to present an eu pnr system at the same time as the measures to ensure coherence and consistency between the eu’s internal and external pnr policies. in conclusion, i welcome this resolution and i will act according to these recommendations. i am looking forward to working further with you on these issues.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the analysis of passenger data is an attempt, similar to swift, to reconcile the fight against global terrorism and serious crime with the fundamental rights of every individual to privacy and also to informational self-determination. but we must also be aware that in the age of mobility, there will be no adequate security in europe and worldwide without effective and rapid data exchange. in the digital age, we also need to ensure special protection for information self-determination and privacy. i therefore also think it necessary to make a clearer distinction between data necessary for the fight against crime and data sensitive to privacy. i do not think it is a question of having to incorporate controls, remedies, rights of access, claims for damages and the length of retention periods into the agreement. the push method must consider whether exceptions can or must be made in urgent cases. we should also include serious crime in the use of passenger data. i believe that this includes crimes such as child pornography, human trafficking, murder, rape and even drug trafficking. i think that would also help to protect the personal rights of those concerned. i think it is good that we postpone the decision on the passenger data agreements in question in order to develop a basic model for all future agreements of this kind and to give the commission a negotiating framework to take account of our own ideas on data protection. perhaps in the future there will be room to consider combatting terrorism and crime together with our transatlantic partners in a common institution. it is a step towards a global response to crime.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to say a few basic things about this agreement. there are similarities with swift, but there are also differences. if the european parliament were to vote today on the passenger data agreements, we would have no choice but to vote no. that's very clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i shall go into detail on this again in a moment. that is why i was not happy when we talked about postponing the vote. but unlike swift, there were good reasons for this shift. but i also want to make it very clear that for us this does not mean that the vote can be delayed beyond st nimmerlein's day, so that we will now have a provisional agreement for years to come, but it is very important for us to reach a new negotiating mandate quickly, and preferably before the summer break, so that we can also quickly get clarity on the detailed questions of how we are to deal with this data and what data should be included in the first place. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not transferred to third countries. the passenger data comprises 19 individual data items. i have learned from conversations that it is of course possible - if you wanted to - to create personality profiles from these individual data. now, of course, those with whom we have such an agreement say: we have no interest in that, we do not, the data will be deleted. but if certain data which could be used to make such a profiling are not needed at all, then it is also necessary to consider whether they are collected at all or whether they actually all have to be transferred when we reach an agreement. that is a very important question. we must also, of course, check the data protection rules for the data that is being transferred. we know that the provisions of the two agreements with the united states and australia are already very different. but in view of further requests from other countries who want similar agreements, we should ensure that in any case, when we agree to an agreement, very specific standards always apply. we must also go into great detail again as to what this data is used for. originally, it was always said that it was about fighting terrorism. now we're dealing with serious crimes. we can talk about it. but you have to be very specific. we know that even within the european union, the legal system and legal culture are very different. this may mean that the definition of what constitutes a serious crime is quite different as far as the question of the nature of the crime is concerned. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the fight against crime. i hope that in future, when the agreement is implemented, we will also ensure that there is a regular exchange of information between the institutions. the president of the council pointed out that there had been a first review of the agreement with the united states. officially, we still do not have these results. that was in february. i would therefore like to see reports not only being drawn up regularly but also being made available directly to the european parliament. it is very important to draw up a uniform agreement. the question of data needs to be re-examined. i believe, however, that the discussions so far have led us to a good agreement and i am therefore looking forward to further negotiations.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i do not want to repeat what my colleagues have just said before me, but rather to make a few general remarks. i don't know if you've ever seen the movie minority report. if not, i would strongly recommend that you look at it. in it, law enforcement agencies of the future try to arrest criminals before they have even committed a crime through a so-called pre-crime system. pre-cops are trying to predict the future by constantly observing people's emotions and behaviors. that's great. a seemingly infallible system that finally provides security. and then the head of the investigation gets himself targeted, and the house of cards collapses. i don't want to bore you with a review of a great movie that's always up to date, but the uncontrolled access to all the passenger information of all people worldwide for the purpose of profiling and nothing else has been practically happening in the united states since at least september 11, 2001. this uncontrolled access is not only contrary to all data protection provisions of the european union, but also to fundamental constitutional principles such as the presumption of innocence, due process and the prohibition of arbitrariness. the agreements negotiated by the eu with the usa and australia on access to passenger data are, in our view, a serious breach of european fundamental rights and the rule of law, and we have repeatedly stated this as a parliament, as mrs in v't veld has already made clear. we cannot as the european parliament endorse this, but we call on the commission and the council to put forward a new mandate which will advance the protection of citizens from such a pre-crime system internationally.
i have to say, madam president, freedom over the clouds, as songwriter reinhard mey once sang in a song, will probably come to an abrupt end with agreements with the united states on the collection of passenger data. the effects of this restriction of freedom have already been experienced by one of our group members in august. because u.s. authorities had him on their terrorist lists, the plane he was on was denied permission to cross u.s. airspace. it had, as we all know in this house, considerable disadvantages, and it turned out later that it was a misunderstanding. already today, us authorities receive a wide range of data credit card numbers, booking data, seat preferences, special meal requests, ip addresses, passenger information without clear data protection regulations. i want to make it very clear that we reject both this and the mass transfer of data on flights, called pnr, as it is now being designed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, my final point is that we cannot allow proactive risk analysis of travel and behaviour patterns to take place. we need to have a privacy policy in the united states. these must be opened up to european citizens. they must also be able to bring legal proceedings.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to begin by making a brief comparison with the swift debate. i was very excited to hear from the council representative the objectives that were committed to in the negotiations for this new swift agreement. it is therefore quite surprising that the treaty of lisbon and the statement by parliament in the council now have the effect, the power, of wanting to represent europe's interests strongly. i hope that we will now see the same momentum in the pnr data, that there will also be a commitment to the european interest. secondly, i think we can all agree that such agreements make sense, particularly from the point of view of legal certainty for airlines and also from the point of view of legal certainty for citizens when it comes to data protection rights. the standards we want are well stated in the joint resolution. thirdly, i would like to raise a point which is not directly related to the agreements but is certainly relevant to the subject, namely the debate in the council on whether we also need or should build a european pnr system. the last major terrorist threat we had in europe was the detroit case, when a perpetrator got on a plane and tried to fly to detroit. that was last year before christmas. in this case, we found that we knew in the uk that this person was a threat. but those who decided whether or not to let him fly, they didn't have the information. what i am saying is that i think we in the european union do not have a problem with whether there is enough data and that we know who the threats are in the first place, but we have a problem with the data actually getting to where we need it to prevent threats. in toledo, the spanish presidency - and i thank you for that - proposed that we strengthen the networking of the operational counter-terrorism authorities in europe. unfortunately, this proposal was not taken up by the european interior ministers, but the proposal was made to build up new data sets, to collect new data. it often seems to me that this is the easiest way for the home secretary to gather new data. i would ask you to take care of the networking of the working authorities first, then a great deal would be achieved in the fight against terrorism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was particularly impressed by the speeches by mrs roithová, mr březina and mr mészáros, who described how similar ruthless exploitation had taken place in their former country, communist czechoslovakia, how a change of mind had begun and how they are now the ones who are advocating the protection of the environment and uniform european standards. i think we need to rethink this across europe. we must be aware that we are in the process of developing new technologies. why not, then, take a little time to develop these new technologies, while we are still running out of reserves? i would like to make one thing very clear: if we are not careful, then irreparable damage will be done, and future generations will condemn us for it. that is why i am really asking for long-term. it is crucial that we have common european standards, because rivers are transboundary and cyanide is of course also an environmental hazard that is transboundary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as mr takkula has just mentioned, cyanide mining is the standard method of mining. but she's -- we heard that -- highly dangerous. the disaster that mrs băsescu has just mentioned, which contaminated the danube at the time, shocked us all, and you know that i am also very committed to the danube region. the question i have to ask myself as a trade politician is: what can we do about it? we have very little gold mining capacity in the european union. it's about making a difference around the world through technological innovation. this is high-tech, i know. environmental technologies have been developed in germany to help avoid cyanide in the future. we must make these european high technologies marketable, we must make them cost-effective. i also see great commercial potential. we must not limit ourselves to the european union, but we must also make sure that we succeed in achieving a breakthrough in international trade, in the interests of the environment and our economy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it clear that the translation may have misunderstood the honourable member. i know baia mare very well and i know that it is not in the former czechoslovakia, but in the north of transylvania. i know it really well. it was a translation error. i have only referred to the speeches by mr březina and mr roithová and those by mr mészáros, who referred to experiences in kašperské hory, bergreichenstein, etc. so, i know the geography of central europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i too have heard of the meeting between president buzek and mr zapatero. i believe that the points of controversy between us and the council on the question of discharge are of such a sensitive nature that it would certainly be useful to have another discussion. what we would decide today, namely to postpone the discharge to the council, is a far-reaching process. we have therefore discussed this again this morning in our group and said that if there is a chance that the open questions could be answered to the satisfaction of parliament, then we should take that chance. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is why we can agree to this proposal.
mr president, i would like to make a technical correction: in paragraph 248 the following should be added after the kosloduy nuclear power plant: 'blocks 1 to 4'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would just like to inform you that the amendment to paragraph 8 by the gue/ngl group and the verts/ale group has the same wording as in the resolution of september 2009. i would just like to inform you that it is just the same position, and i do not think that there is a need to change this position before the negotiations on swift.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not my dear colleagues! we have a broad consensus on this issue. we are looking forward to the enlargement of parliament, we are looking forward to the 18 new members, and we want to create the conditions now for them to come and work with us. there is only one small difference, but it is a very big one, because it concerns the foundations of our work, including our understanding of the democratic principle and the understanding of this house itself. the question is who decides who these new members are. this is not a secondary question for us, but the central one. the treaty states that the members of the european parliament are 'elected by direct universal suffrage in a free and secret ballot for a term of five years'. the people vote. in 11 out of 12 countries, this is what happened. one country says that this is not possible and that they will send us representatives elected by their citizens for a very different task. we do not think that this is an appropriate way of dealing with parliament, with the right of citizens to vote and with the principle of democracy. we could do without a convention if this were only a technical question, if we had agreed on this principle, namely the respect of the treaties. but at this point, the treaty is in danger of breaking down. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr méndez de vigo. i see no need to convene a convention. it's a detail that needs to be clarified. the european parliament has been elected by direct and secret ballot since 1979, and we should continue to do so. the council and we are well advised to tackle this problem as quickly as possible at an intergovernmental conference, because 16 of the 18 members are in what is called a state of suspended animation, which is quite intolerable. that's why the council is back in the game. i ask the council not to give in here because one member state has failed to find clear rules, expecting the treaty of lisbon to enter into force earlier. i'm glad we have this contract now, and we have to do our homework now. the méndez de vigo report is a good basis for strengthening this process. but the council is well advised not to give in to the temptation to accept that colleagues from a national parliament are sent here. because that would set a precedent, and i'm not ready for that. i therefore fully support the rapporteur, with the proviso that no members of national parliaments are to be sent.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. of course, greece must be helped. but the so-called rescue operation has also had its absurdities. the decision on the aid package was delayed at great expense by the great powers of france and germany. the financial markets have been deregulated for years, and now everyone is surprised that it is getting expensive. who is to clean up the mistakes of politics? the workers, the little people? it is not the banks that are being held responsible, but once again the taxpayer who is to pay for the banks' business. once again, the employees are to accept wage cuts. the dictates of the international monetary fund also erase the semblance of a democratic decision-making process. the gulf of mexico oil spill is a call for the polluter pays principle. i think that's right. if you're looking for gold or silver, you're supposed to cover the damage. the banks currently - at least in germany - do not even have to pay back the debts they have taken on and are happy to speculate against the euro - yes, against the euro. and they're still speculating, even though we've been talking for a long time about something that needs to be done. the commission has already made proposals on what could be done. a ban on credit derivatives trading and short selling, the introduction of a financial market transaction tax, special levies on bonuses in the financial sector, a legally binding banking and insurance levy - all of these are on the table as proposals. of course, greece must also do its homework. like other countries in the european union, greece should tax wealth, fight corruption and reduce its military spending. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. i therefore reserve the facts and agree with his statement. i can understand people taking to the streets in athens and protesting. what i can't understand is the violence. i join all those who have expressed their sympathy for the victims who are now to be deplored. violence does the opposite of what protesting and honestly demonstrating people want. this is where the call should go: no violence!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is a little like a political provocation to present this europe 2020 programme as a major step towards the next exit from the crisis. one only has to look at the past policy of regulating financial markets to see that - if we are half-honest - we have been promising for months - actually for years - to regulate these wild markets, but have so far only managed to take a few steps. and now we are being held up in the mirror with greece. we see from the greek crisis that what has been done so far is not enough at all. our citizens have seen us announce that we are rescuing the banks. they gritted their teeth and accepted it. now they're paying the price. the public budgets are already overburdened by these measures. we are saving greece now, and we must, there is no doubt about it. this is another challenge for public budgets in many countries of the european union. the banks are writing black numbers, and people are applauding when they say that they are voluntarily participating a little bit in greece! mr barroso, we cannot fail to find in the european union, a market of 27 countries, a financial transaction tax or some other instrument designed to reduce the appetite of speculators to make a profit in this area. we need an instrument which will enable those who are profiting from this crisis, who are speculating against the euro, to participate in a fair way in what we have to finance now. i still lack the vision of how to proceed in the paper you have presented. i've heard the reference to global regulation in the climate debate. we haven't gotten anywhere in years. climate is the second big issue for me. we are not getting out of this crisis either, but we are sinking deeper into it because we have not yet succeeded in taking adequate steps. i think it is pathetic that it has become clear today, just before this debate, that connie hedegaard is working as a mole in the commission, trying to enforce the minimum target for the european union. in view of the current situation, it is too late to raise our targets to 30%. if we do not raise this target, we can forget, for example, about our famous european emissions trading scheme. if co2 does not have a fair price because our targets are too weak, then we have been arguing for years and years and we are still far from what we have formulated as our own target. the transformation of the european economy towards sustainability - as is reflected in the headlines of the commission's programme - would be something that everyone would say they want to be a part of. but, mr barroso, your commission has been guilty of saying with this programme how the objectives are to be represented in the european economy. what instruments, what incentive programmes are to be used to achieve this? mrs ek has mentioned a number of specific areas. there's a lot of work to be done on this program. the european parliament cannot, in my view, say that this is the big leap forward for lisbon, given what we have so far. this europe 2020 is, so to speak, shaped from the failure of the lisbon strategy to the next failure.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if i compare the discussions on the last item on the agenda with the current debate, it is clear that we are talking about two parallel worlds: on the one hand we have a european union in which countries such as greece, italy, spain and portugal are in a deep crisis and other countries such as germany and france are blocking, and on the other hand we have a european union for which a strategy has been developed that is in no way responsive to these very challenges. we have not defined a new direction for the development of the european union in the strategy, nor have we included responses to the instruments which are not working. we have also failed to make the necessary clarification of the competences between member states and the european union or the relationship between the eurozone and the countries in the european union which are not in the eurozone. we have not taken up all the questions that have been raised in recent years in the lisbon strategy, we have not given any forward-looking answers! we have not clarified what the european union is really to become. this is the reason for many of the disagreements we are now seeing. we cannot continue to pretend that we can continue with the strategy in this way, either in view of the debate on european economic governance or the european monetary fund. before we talk about implementing by 2020, we urgently need to suspend the strategy, take more time for the decision-making process and analyse the actual challenges. we must involve civil society and, above all, parliaments much more than has been done so far. otherwise we'll be walking into disaster with our eyes open!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i know from my experience in the economy that strategies are only as good as the concrete measures of implementation and the monitoring arrangements. the commission has to answer this question. we hear the goals with which we can identify, we hear the noble intentions, but we know next to nothing about how to achieve these goals in practice. i had actually assumed that the commission's initial considerations would be the financial and economic crisis, the greatest we have had since the second world war, and now aggravated by the sovereign debt crisis which has been added to it. i think that should have been the logical starting point, because both crises have changed the situation considerably. if we are to achieve something in the next ten years, rather than just having lofty aims, we must tackle a number of specific issues: first, we need a cash crunch - not just in the eu, but in every member state, according to uniform criteria - so that we know where we really stand, what our financial margin is, what we can afford at all. secondly, we need to develop a crisis-resolution mechanism to prevent us from being thrown off the rails again in the future if there is another market downturn. thirdly, we must complete the internal market where it is not yet complete. i expect a lot from the mario monti report, including services. fourthly, we must demonstrate convincingly how we can complement the single monetary policy with a single, tightly knit economic and financial policy and even fiscal policy. fifthly, we must show in concrete terms how we can replace the divergence we have observed between member states with increasing convergence by focusing on genuinely european economic projects. there are a number of them: energy policy, energy interconnections, high-speed rail and road networks, navigation systems and so on.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council and mr president of the commission! the president of the commission has just said that in these times we cannot work under the motto 'save whoever can', but rather we need good cooperation and decisive action. that's right! that's why you need a strategy to act. however, i have the impression that this 2020 project, and especially the way we are supposed to negotiate and conclude this, is not pursuing a real strategy. it is more of a paper-based reflection which is now being worked out in the fast-track procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he said that the biggest problem with the lisbon strategy was that the people involved were not involved, that they did not identify with it and that they did not participate in its implementation. that's exactly what it is! but if that is the case, then when you have a new strategy, you have to take the time and the calm, to really involve the stakeholders, you have to be able to discuss in a calm way. i understand that this cannot be done at a time when the financial crisis and the greek problem are presenting us with new problems every day. that's not a reproach. the charge is that we here in parliament are being told how to implement the programme. we have repeatedly expressed our desire at the conference of committee chairmen to make the timetable a little more cautious so that we can proceed in a thorough manner. instead, the procedure is being accelerated, we are discussing it today and again during the may part-session, and in june the proposal goes to the council and then everything is done. please do not be surprised if you do not see any change in action at the end. i wouldn't be surprised, because you can't make change like that. we need a thorough analysis and not superficial conclusions, as the commissioner for climate has recently drawn, which, in view of the crisis and the fact that we are now emitting less co2, suggests that we can now also aim for 30 or 40%. the crisis cannot be the standard! the scale must be the perspective forward. we should look at the situation in depth and think carefully about the consequences of innovation, economic development, innovation and research. but of course we will not get there!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon strategy was headed by competitiveness, and it was a very one-sided economic strategy, which has also failed in some respects. so i am very pleased that the title of the eu 2020 strategy is now sustainability. this is the right way to go, and it involves a better balance between economic, social and environmental developments and needs. sustainability has the disadvantage that it's a general term, which can also be an empty bag, so we have to make it concrete. the commission's paper is far too vague, there are no real mosaics to put this into practice. resource efficient europe is right - we are short of energy, we are short of raw materials - but the goals are missing and the instruments are missing to achieve resource efficiency in production as well as consumption. i hope that by june this will become a little more concrete and that we will know exactly what everyone has to do: what the commission is doing, what parliament is doing and what the member states have to do. the environmental capital has been somewhat neglected in this resource-efficient europe, because air, water, soil and ecosystems are resources. it's totally gone. i would like the environment committee to give us more information on what we are going to do. the biodiversity strategy has failed, a new one is being drawn up by 2020, and this point must be taken into account. climate change has certainly been overturned many times. i think we need to go from 20 to 30 per cent reduction, and we need binding targets on energy efficiency. this is still too vague, it has to be legally binding.
thank you very much, mr president. mr barroso spoke of actions we need to take in the context of europe 2020, but then he left the room. he's about to miss one of the most important actions. i therefore address the spanish presidency and thank the president-in-office for staying and following the debate to the end. one of the key actions to be taken in the context of europe 2020 is to use sustainable development to tap the green job potential. this requires a comprehensive initiative for green job potential. it is necessary to ensure that in this context the transformations and the rights of workers are also taken into account and that there is an initiative for training and further training. i know that the spanish and belgian presidencies are working on this and i would strongly encourage you to continue this and to put forward a council initiative later this year.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not commissioner, thank you for your comments. i am very grateful to the spanish presidency for the initiative - and this is a very spanish event, as i see it - to take up this series of proposals and take the lead. electric mobility must play a central role in the future. but we are - we all know this - still far and wide away from full e-mobility. we should not make the mistake of creating an electrical hype now whose demands we cannot politically meet. we should therefore not neglect to focus on improving conventional means of propulsion, as crude oil is likely to be the fuel of our mobility for a long time to come. the following points are nevertheless of central importance: firstly, you and all the other speakers have said that we need a european strategy for the development of standards. the u.s. and china are working on a joint charging dock. we must not lag behind, we must go ahead and we must not allow ourselves to be led by european vanities: are the french faster, or the germans or the spanish? we should all be pulling in the same direction and the commission should certainly take the lead. we need to develop low-cost, high-performance batteries. secondly, we need to expand the network infrastructure across the board. this means that we must orientate our support possibilities in the area of cohesion, in the regional area, but also in rural development more specifically in this direction. the citizens must be able to use electric mobility across borders, otherwise they will not have access to this form of transport. thirdly, we have to take electric cars into account for co2 emissions. the car manufacturers that are doing fleet calculations today can't yet factor in electric cars. we'll need that credit in the future. fourthly, we must tax electric cars throughout the eu. this is particularly true of batteries, which are still the most expensive item. we must do research on this, but we must also harmonize taxation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. transport in europe is responsible for about 30% of co2 emissions, with road transport accounting for the largest share. avoid, move, improve is therefore the order of the day. the most environmentally friendly vehicle propulsion technology must be found. electric vehicles include railways, trams, buses, cars and bicycles. but the prerequisite is this: there must be no revival of dangerous nuclear energy, which is why renewable energy generation is the conditio sine qua non. and the result of the whole cycle from production to use to waste and recycling must be positive. only then will electric mobility be worth supporting for us greens. replacing today's fleet of cars with electric cars will neither solve congestion nor protect the climate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. e-cars will solve the emissions problem at best. the land consumption alone is immense. for example, germany has committed to limiting daily sealing with concrete and asphalt to 30 hectares from 2020. today, it is still 117 acres a day! that's why we have to reduce the car fleet. for the rest of the cars, and also for trains, buses, trams and e-bikes, we need the most environmentally friendly technology. if this is to be electric mobility, we need european and international standardisation. the greens support this resolution.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i would also like to thank the spanish presidency of the council and the commission for raising the issue of electric mobility. i also believe that with electric mobility we can renew the mobility economy in europe, and we need that to create value and to safeguard jobs. but to stay in the picture, we must give it more of a go, because the question of electric mobility touches on many policy areas: of course the question of standardisation, technology, but also the question of integrating electric mobility into the whole transport system, because we may need new forms of mobility, especially in urban areas. energy has to be renewable, and we need raw materials, so trade is affected. that is why i am asking you, commissioner, to continue to develop electric mobility in an integrated way, perhaps in the continuation of cars 21.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the committee on industry, research and energy is of course also concerned with protecting small and mediumsized enterprises. commissioner, competition is not an end in itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this includes, for one, the fact that multi-branding is indeed allowed. this includes giving workshops and dealers full access to information on vehicles and on repair possibilities. thirdly, the necessary space to develop skills is there. we talked earlier about electric mobility: you also have to be able to maintain electric vehicles. fourthly, they need investment security, i.e. no more audits and contractual protection. they must be able to make their investments safely over a long period of time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking mr deutsch for his work. i would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise the importance of the european investment bank for europe and for the european citizens, and to point out that we need to make greater use of this unique instrument, particularly in times of economic crisis. from the perspective of budgetary control, which in a modern sense also has to assess the actual output and performance of european programmes and institutions, the eib as a bank has certainly more than earned a high rating - especially in political reliability. it is creating real value for the people of europe through its investments in its six flagship programmes - from tens to support for smes - and special programmes such as the fight against climate change. this will certainly have broad support in the european parliament. but this also means that we as a parliament will have to develop our supervisory procedures in the future. i am referring here to the investment instrument, for example. i would like to conclude by mentioning a point of particular importance to my group, which is addressed directly to the eib. we welcome the eib's review of its policy towards offshore financial centres. but we also want to make sure that the revenue generated by the eib does not go to such tax havens. otherwise, the reputation or rating you have gained would fall back significantly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. animal welfare is indivisible, it must be harmonised and defined globally. on harmonization: we should pause on new rules and standards and first consider and implement uniform implementation within the european union. on globalisation: we must do more to ensure that imports from third countries into the european union are subject to the same standards and guidelines as those within the european union. the consumer has a right to buy not only healthy food but also food produced in a healthy way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three brief comments on the report: first, agriculture is not the problem with climate change, it is the solution to the problem. secondly, we are only at the beginning of climate change research, although the media sometimes give the impression that we are not. we should also take into account and pursue theories and results that do not fit into the expected mainstream in climate research. thirdly, we should take all the necessary measures which are appropriate and unbureaucratic, and we should check these measures for their economic efficiency. for example, in this context, a european framework directive on soil protection is counterproductive and ineffective.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the council has this morning answered the outstanding questions on the spanish presidency. in doing so he has fulfilled an important condition for us to be able to vote on the report. he has also indicated, through the spanish presidency, that we will be able to discuss and work out an ordinary discharge procedure with him, so that the second important condition is fulfilled. the council is thus submitting itself to parliamentary scrutiny, and this is a milestone which we should acknowledge. i therefore recommend that the groups vote in favour of the decision on discharge being placed on the agenda. we shall, however, be dealing with the resolution during the june partsession.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. today, on the international day against homophobia, i would like to ask you all to remember all the victims who have been subjected to stigma, personal insults and psychological and physical violence in our eu member states over the past year because of their sexual identity. the eu treaty prohibits discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, but this prohibition is not consistently enforced by the member states. in member states like lithuania, an attempt is made to ban the diversity parade by an official ban and then to fuel the mood for homophobia. in my country, germany, they try not to fight homophobia in schools. mr president, we must ensure that protection against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is recognised as a human right.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. after 24 years, it is time to update and adapt the directive to the principle of equal treatment for men and women in self-employment. two years after the commission's proposal, the spanish presidency has now negotiated a viable and acceptable compromise with our rapporteur, astrid lulling. of course, wishes remain open. more regulation, more insurance obligations were discussed. the question was how tight the corset must or may be for the necessary social protection of selfemployed women and in particular of assisting spouses, who are in the majority women. if women are helping in small and mediumsized enterprises, they must at least have their own insurance. it's got to be something that stands out in this company. we know that self-employment is an opportunity, but it is also a risk, especially in terms of income levels, and often income levels fluctuate. the risk of basic social security cannot be covered by private insurance alone. everyone in society should be responsible for their own protection to the extent that they can, so as not to become a burden on the general public and to be protected in all situations of life. i am glad that the proposal covers all selfemployed people and that we are not limited to agriculture. member states may decide whether to make this cover compulsory or voluntary. that is subsidiarity. the 14 weeks of maternity leave for selfemployed women is a good choice, and it allows these women to be on an equal footing with the working population and to have sufficient time for the mother and child to recover. this new directive is an important step towards equality and an important risk reduction for men and women facing the challenge of self-employment. thank you to everyone who helped make this happen.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to expressly endorse the words of my predecessor. we are also glad that the inta committee is working in this area. i would also like to join in the thanks to the rapporteur. i am not, however, in agreement with his position, and we shall not be able to agree with him on certain points tomorrow. i want to emphasize again that this is what it's all about. we all want a clear indication of origin. we all agree that the council must be urged to do so, and we all regret that a clear indication of origin has been blocked in the council for years. however, this directive is a directive and not a symbolic resolution in which to lay down such a thing. i myself, for example, supported a written declaration which again explicitly called for action and i think it is important to continue working in this area. but this directive has another purpose, namely to ensure transparency in the labelling of novel fibres and materials and to provide consumer confidence. we now fear that this directive, if its scope is extended, will suffer the same fate as the last attempt to introduce a 'made in' designation of origin, that it will be blocked again in the council. and we would regret that, because we really believe that we have to act relatively quickly here. we support all other actions in the field of origin labelling, that is not at all a question, you will always find us as an ally, but we think it is wrong to abuse this regulation to do so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you for the good work you have done on this regulation. i would also like to thank my shadow rapporteur in particular, because although this is a technical report - as has been said many times - it has very many and far-reaching implications for the citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, we want to make that possible. the european commission is right. but not just any way, but the fibres must be tested so that the citizens can really benefit from the consumer protection we keep talking about. it is important that the fibres are tested, for example, for allergens. but they must also be clearly identified so that citizens - who are always called mature citizens - can behave accordingly. i have to disagree with the colleagues who said that we should leave the designation of origin out of the question. that is very important and very right. many citizens want to know where the fibres, the textiles come from. what's the background? the background is, among other things, the way they were made. sadly, child labor and slavery still exist in some lands. and there are citizens who want to receive this information so that they can shop in a responsible manner. it is not really the task of this regulation, but it is the task of us members of parliament to remind the council and to put pressure on it to finally accept the text on origin labelling which has been in force since 2005. this is a way of increasing that pressure, and we should really use it, so that we end up with a good regulation, one which citizens can say: yes, we can live with it, yes, that is what we really expect from the members of parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i always knew that i liked rühle very much, but it's a first for me to find a place where she speaks to me from the heart after six years. i too fear that we are unfortunately mixing up two files at the moment, and that is not doing the citizens of the european union, but also ourselves in parliament, the commission and the council, any favors. we all agree that the issue of labelling textiles is a very important one for consumers and one that we should urgently address. but we really should also be careful not to link different things together. i have never seen anything like this in this parliament: we are discussing a draft commission regulation in the committee on external trade at the moment, and then we are somehow including this very subject in another dossier. i am speaking specifically of the designation of origin 'manufactured in'. i shall not go into the content of all the questions which we shall be discussing in the commit tee on foreign trade in the coming weeks and months in the context of the 'made in' regulation: where does a product come from that is designed in italy, processed in leather from argentina, added to cotton from turkmenistan, woven in china, sewn together in vietnam and then ironed and packaged in italy as a whole shirt, for example? where does this product come from? can we find a solution for the consumer? i am firmly convinced that if we succeed, it will certainly not be in the context of the regulation we are discussing today, but in the context of the project for which my colleague, mrs muscardini, is responsible. i would be very grateful if we could untangle the two issues as quickly as possible in the second reading. i think we are doing ourselves, the consumers, parliament, the commission and the council a disservice by mixing and matching all this up. i would be glad if there were a solution here that would really prevent a possible blockade!
the commission has already done so. i have listened to the debate on the textile labelling directive in full and i would first like to say that it is important to the epp group that consumers who are interested in information when they buy textiles should also receive this information. the rapporteur's suggestion that we should make greater use of techniques where the product itself has only an identification number and no endless slip and where this information can be retrieved from other documents - possibly on the internet - is certainly helpful for those who really want a lot of information. it also helps those who do not need this information, because they do not have to read the long information on the garment themselves. secondly, the study proposed by the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs - to whom i would like to express my thanks once again - raises a number of questions which are worth examining individually, but which, taken together, are likely to lead to a great deal of opposition to this proposal in the council. this is all the more regrettable because this proposal would be particularly important for the european textile industry, because we could of course make progress with highly innovative fibres in a very competitive world market. if this regulation is not adopted, it will be to the detriment of all of us. the legitimate concerns expressed in the amendments adopted in committee should not be ignored. we should now concentrate on getting this proposal through in the commission's rather original version. the questions of origin labelling and uniform sizes, which mr caspary has also raised, should perhaps be taken up again at a later date. i hope that we can find a solution in this dossier, as soon as possible in the second reading, and that we can clarify the important questions in this second reading and not dwell too long on marginal issues.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation and the good result in the committee, for the time being. i would like to repeat and emphasize the main points of my report. on the one hand, we need more legal certainty for all those involved, both purchasers and contractors, in the sense of better regulation. my report emphasizes the great importance of public procurement, especially in times of crisis. however, my report also criticises the fact that the complex interplay between european legislation and national implementation has not led to a simplification and de-bureaucratisation of public procurement, as was the aim of the 2004 revision, but on the contrary has resulted in a high effort, high external costs for legal advice, lengthy procedures. unfortunately, this is at the expense of innovation and quality. numerous studies have shown this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. while there is already support from the commission in the area of green procurement, there is no support for socially responsible procurement, fair trade or the promotion of innovation through procurement. the commission must urgently follow up on this. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. in several recent judgments, the european court of justice has removed legal ambiguities and strengthened the role of contracting authorities, for example by pointing out that directives should not be extended beyond their scope to include issues such as town planning. these judgments do not give contracting authorities a blank check, but rather set a clear framework for them. i should like to make this point clear again in my report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. my position on this is not new. service concessions have been deliberately excluded from the procurement directives in order to provide greater flexibility and to take account of cultural differences. this position has also been supported by all the stakeholders with whom i have spoken, be it municipal associations, public enterprises - especially in the water sector - or also industrial associations, trade unions and, last but not least, ngos. i would like to make that clear again in my report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we see that in many municipalities decisions are now being taken to make fair trade an important part of public procurement, whether it is for the procurement of coffee or other products, then i think it is important that this is strengthened. and it would be really important for the commission to help the local authorities in such a case and to give them advice when they make mistakes. instead, the commission has opened a new legal procedure against the netherlands, which is being sued for precisely such errors. and that is precisely what i consider to be counterproductive, because it counters the political decisions that political bodies have made.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. my group would have liked to have voted in favour of mrs rühle's report because it contains many very positive elements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, mrs rühle could not accept that we really need a legal framework for services of general economic interest, and secondly, she also failed to make it quite clear that it is in the area of social services that we are talking about more legal certainty. that is a defect in this report which we regret very much. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we can't just say we don't want to do this. the court has already settled all this. that's very unpolitical. it is very important that we say clearly what we want, when we know that the european commission is preparing a legal text. it is important that we call on the european commission to follow up what the court of justice has said very positively on this issue and to ensure legal certainty. that is our demand and that is why we have tabled an alternative resolution. we ask our colleagues to support this alternative resolution.
the commission has already done so. i too would like to thank mrs rühle and the shadow rapporteurs for this very solid report. the epp group is satisfied with a great deal of what is contained in the report. we have also agreed on compromises at one point or another, because as it is in this house, you can never win out completely. overall, the report provides a good basis for further discussion with the european commission on a number of issues. mrs rühle has already raised the question of how to help the bodies, offices and authorities responsible for awarding contracts to take account of social criteria in their procurement in such a way that they are still in line with the principles of the internal market. secondly, how can we - as mr engel has already said - ensure that service concessions are in line with the internal market in the long term? i fully agree with mr engel and mr rühle that we can only accept new legislation if there is a clear advantage for the internal market. in this context, we have reached a good compromise here, and i would of course be glad if the social democrats could agree to it in the end.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. policy coherence in the interests of development means that we do not take with one hand what we give with the other. it is not a question of the community's ability to act in the face of the crisis, but of the community's ability to act in the face of the crisis. we can also do a lot to improve health care by restricting the trade in generics or by extending patents to drive up drug prices to unaffordable levels. and agrofuels may reduce co2 emissions a little bit in the eu, but they lead to deforestation and land use change in the developing world, and therefore more climate change, which we were just trying to avoid, not to mention the displacement of indigenous people and the loss of biodiversity and land for food. so we are not very coherent at the moment - that is, the eu as such. the eu has long recognised that policy measures should not contradict each other. the lisbon treaty lays down policy coherence in the interests of development. article 208 states: 'in implementing policies which may have an impact on developing countries, the union shall take account of the objectives of development cooperation.' we must be measured by this demand. this year we are reviewing progress towards the millennium development goals. it is clear that without policy coherence we will not be able to deliver on our promise. we must all be aware of this responsibility, all of us who make and implement laws! before we decide on any action, there must be an impact assessment so that we can even begin to see what negative effects european legislation may have on developing countries. we need experts in the council, the commission and parliament who can see inconsistencies. the commission's work programme on policy coherence is a good step in this direction. now it's about how this plan is implemented. policy coherence for development means that we must take greater account of the interests of local people in fisheries reform and not subordinate them to the interests of european fisheries corporations. it means we have to drain tax havens into which money from developing countries flows. it means that we cannot agree to acta if there is suspicion that this agreement could disrupt access to medicines or technologies in developing countries. the commission has not been able to dispel this suspicion so far. policy coherence also means that when the external action service is established, development policy must remain a strong policy field in its own right and the powers of the development commissioner must be expanded rather than restricted. and it is also part of that that we are, for example, allowing fair trade as a criterion for the award of contracts in the municipalities, as my colleague heide rühle has proposed. in many cases we members of parliament have to look very closely at the commission and the council to ensure that they are making policy coherently. in many cases, however, it is also up to us members to be consistent in the interests of development. we need to network better between committees and we need one or more permanent rapporteurs. the report, which was unanimously adopted by the committee on development, contains many good proposals and takes us a great step forward. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the ombudsman and all the ngos for their help and cooperation and hope that our joint report can also be adopted by the plenary tomorrow.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 2011 parliamentary budget is the first proper budget for our house since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this means that parliament has more powers, we have more tasks, we have more responsibility, we have more legislative tasks, which means that we also need more manpower and for this we need more budgetary resources. at the same time - and this is very important to me - we have to see: we have the economic and financial crisis, we have the euro stability crisis, in germany the debt brake starts in 2011, we have high savings requirements for greece and also for all over-indebted public budgets. we must therefore find a very responsible position on how we deal with the increase in parliament's budget in this difficult situation. as rapporteur for the 2011 budget, i am repeating the majority position, but i will also be presenting my green position. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european parliamentary committee on the environment is a very good one. the majority in the committee on budgets believes that this will no longer be the case in 2011, because the reality has changed. we have enlargement, we have more competences, we have more tasks, so you don't have to take 20% as a fundamentalist figure. but it has become clear that, out of self-discipline and responsibility, you want to be around the 20%. the bureau of parliament has put forward a figure of 20.46%, or 39 million euros more than we had in 2010. after some debate and taking into account the conflict of objectives it has now been agreed that only 20.32% is to be spent, i.e. plus 20 million euros . there is agreement that we need more staff for enlargement, more places for the library, for information technology, for studies, and that we need to give greater weight to environmental protection here in the house, and that it would be very good to have more bicycles available in strasbourg too, so that not so many people have to use the transport service. but where are we in controversy? we have been having controversy over whether there should be more money in 2011 - €1,500 - for the assistants, not for the members of the house, but for the assistants. this would amount to a total of eur 13.2 million. the majority of the committee has put these increases in reserve for the assistants because it was argued that this should be better evaluated and decided later in the year. i would like to make the green group's position clear on this point: we must be sensitive to the general debt problem, and that is why my group believes that we should not have this increase of eur 1 500 next year. we should not now change the statute of our members, but we should commit ourselves to taking fewer business flights, for example on short business trips, if possible, in order to implement the environmental protection we always demand politically, also in terms of our own behaviour and our own home. it is therefore very encouraging that by increasing efficiency - for example, by 12.9% less co2 emissions in 2008 - we have been able to improve our own environmental performance. we have 0.8% less electricity consumption, we want a job ticket for the public transport, that is, we want to show ourselves to be both fiscally and environmentally responsible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to start again with the magic word 'balance' which mr haglund has just mentioned. i believe that when we are discussing the 2011 budget, we must be guided by the question: 'how do we strike the right and responsible balance?' my colleague, mr fernandes, spoke of populism in the light of the consideration here in the house of behaving very responsibly and also with self-discipline in the 2011 budget. i don't agree with him on that. i do not think it is populist to come to the conclusion that, in the face of the many austerity measures we are now demanding from other countries, we must also look very closely at how we in this house deal with self-discipline, but i think that is precisely the political responsibility of the european parliament in the present situation. the austerity measures that are being demanded of greece and of the public budgets in general, on the one hand, must have the courage to legitimize the increases that we need to make our work responsible, and yet still find a limit where we say: in the present situation we also demand a certain limit because this is simply part of the political landscape. this must be signalled by the motto: "we have understood". i am very much in favour of the commission's proposal to make the budget for 2011 a budget for the european union.
i have to say, madam president, especially in times of crisis, politicians must be able to separate rationality from emotion, especially when we talk about budgetary issues and money. i feel that the lisbon treaty and the budgetary questions connected with it are a bit like the weather forecast: you do not know exactly what tomorrow will bring. rain is predicted, you take the umbrella, and in the end it may drip, but it's not going to rain. similarly, with the treaty of lisbon, we do not know how the workload in the european parliament will change as a result of the treaty of lisbon. i wonder how the colleagues in the committees and in the offices were able to work before, for whom the treaty of lisbon does not bring any change. the debate on the eur 1 500 increase in the secretariat allowance is symbolic of the question of whether we are able to streamline our structures, save money and make work processes more efficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. if you're not worth your life, i feel sorry for you. i can only tell you that we are not doing ourselves any favors by creating working conditions here that we cannot effectively work under. i am in favour of increasing the secretarial allowance for both instalments and i think that is very justified. whoever works in this house needs help. those who do not want to work should not prevent those who do and must work from doing so. no one has to take advantage of the increase in secretarial allowance, you can take advantage of it. if you don't need it, tant mieux for the taxpayer, who then gets his money back. i can only say for myself that i am worth my money, and so are my staff. we must, however, examine activities which have been undertaken in the past on the basis of a surplus in this budget. we must examine whether we can and will continue with these activities. i am referring in particular to web-tv. i mean, we have to do things, we can't just leave it at that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on budgetary control will do everything in its power to clarify the points where things are not going well.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you have all heard how controversial the debate on this 2011 budget is. this is not surprising, because it is indeed a question of real growth and savings on the one hand and, of course, as always in politics, also of symbolic questions. as rapporteur, i would like to make the following observation: you have just seen the whole range of views, from mrs gräßle of the ppe, who is very firmly in favour of these increases - including the 1 500 euro - to ensure her working capacity, to other colleagues who have said: 'we do not need this' or 'we need to evaluate much more closely how the increases are to be justified and to give us an overview, also of the individual committees and areas of work of this house'. as rapporteur, i would like to point out that the majority of the committee on budgets decided to put the additional funds in reserve - they have not yet been decided by the committee on budgets - and asked for a precise evaluation. so all of this has to be done now. we must get this evaluation on the table and then we will have to deal with these results again very seriously in the autumn, in order to negotiate further with the council in october under the new budgetary procedure and to find a majority position here in the house as well. at the present stage of the matter, it is important to note that there is controversy, there are very different opinions, and there is a majority position that we need to look at the figures again very closely. i thank you for your advice and hope that we all will be careful in our next steps.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. sis ii is a story of years of trying, failing and trying again. these are attempts, failures and attempts which have so far cost a total of 90 million euros, which many consider to be a waste. from the budgetary point of view, i can support every sentence, every word and every effort made by my colleague, carlos coelho. we are working closely and well together on this issue. we all have a common interest in keeping sis ii running. but you have to admit -- as with so many things in life -- at some point, when these things don't work, and think about alternatives. we in the european parliament are not prepared to abandon the project now and we support commissioner malmström in every way possible, who has taken on this difficult legacy. but it must be clear, and we have decided this in the budget and we are recommending it to the plenary, that the sums for sis ii should be put in reserve so that we can have better control over the use of these funds. personally, i expect there to be a plan b in case one day you admit that we couldn't achieve what we wanted to achieve.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what we all said on the subject was that we simply need to convince more member states to participate in this programme. i think that has a lot to do with educating people and also showing the benefits, because those who have participated in it have always said that they continue to do it and that they welcome it. it is very important to explain who these people are. these are people who cannot afford to come to europe themselves. they are women, children and sick people who are in refugee camps outside the eu and need our help. i think it is very good that we will decide to make a larger part of the refugee fund available in the future. but i also think it is very important that when this money is paid to the national parliaments, the national states, it does not disappear somewhere in the budget, but that it is actually used to build a sustainable structure, that the money should actually be passed on to the communities and cities where the integration actually takes place, where the kindergarten places and the housing are provided. it is essential to involve the towns and municipalities as allies in this discussion. the national states may be more inclined to reject this in the short term than local communities. the planning involved is, i believe, an important link between us as the eu and those on the ground who are doing the integration. i am sure that all of us here can help to promote the resettlement programme, which i think is very good. above all, one thing must be made clear: the citizen must be taken along, people and associations must be found to facilitate the journey of these people who want to start a new life in the local area, and to show them how the local city works or where the nearest swimming pool is. we need a consensus in society that we want to be part of a resettlement programme, that it's a good solution, and that integration is actually done on the ground.
i have to say, madam president, firstly, i believe - and i am speaking here of the schengen information system - that the eu should not pursue a wish-fulfilment policy but a policy based on real facts. this means that in the case of the schengen information system, it should be noted that the tests of the so-called first milestone have failed. after eight years of work, it is clear that the objective of the commission's proposed measure the migration from sis 1+ to sis ii cannot be achieved by the member states, either technically or legally. that is not my opinion, but that of the federal republic of germany. so that is the position at home, which i fully share. 90 million euros have been wasted so far, and more are coming. we do not want an extension of the deadline until 2013, we want to make that very clear, but we want to say goodbye to this system and we want to start looking for an alternative system. secondly, the left is fundamentally critical of sis ii - i would like to mention this here - because access to the system is being drastically extended, for example by the intelligence services. in germany, the law separates the intelligence services from the police. so if you mix intelligence and police data, it all ends up in the federal constitutional court. at least from a german point of view, i have to report it. we are also against sis ii because it collects and stores a lot of data, biometric data. that is neither appropriate nor appropriate.
mr president, i think you are talking about the wrong subject. we are currently holding a joint debate on the schengen agreement. i am sorry that you were unable to speak on the manka report, but we must now proceed.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr luís paulo alves, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 247/2006 laying down specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the union (com (2009) 0510 - c7-0255/2009 - 2009/0138 (cod)) (a7-0054/2010).
we've made a change of names on the screen, as you saw. unfortunately, the commissioner responsible was unable to be with us in time, which i regret because there is no ash cloud at the moment and because it is already 11 o'clock. perhaps the commission would like to discuss the need for the commissioners responsible to be present. this is also a subject for the framework agreement. i am sure mrs malmström will make a wonderful representative.
the commission has already done so. i am pleased that the report on special measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions of the european union has been discussed here with such unanimity. in the last term, i was the shadow commissioner for sugar reform. the committee on agriculture and rural development was visiting réunion at the time, and i visited a small farmer who grows sugar cane. this small-scale farming could not continue without our support. as someone who comes from the mainland, i have also noticed that these farmers in the outermost regions of the european union are facing a special situation. it is necessary that we make sure, with certain exceptions, that we give a perspective to these farmers in all these regions that are part of the european union and make sure that they can ensure food security - at least for the most part - in these areas. we are all called upon to help ensure that agriculture - even with these derogations - has a future and that the security of supply for the population is guaranteed. the report as it is now drafted is a good basis for achieving these objectives. thank you to everyone who has worked here!
i have to say, madam president, it is a bit unusual, but i have to inform my own group that our voting list for the trüpel report is not quite right, as we have it on the table. there's been a misunderstanding. we reject all the amendments except our own.
i have to say, madam president, the common agricultural policy must be reviewed regularly for practicality, because unnecessary bureaucratic regulations cost us and above all our farmers a lot of time and money. things that are not meaningful and appropriate need to be broken down and simplified. this is particularly true of the often very complex and controversial cross-compliance rules. our stated aim is to make agricultural policy simpler and more transparent. the farmers in the european union should be allowed to spend more time in the field than at their desks. i very much hope that the commission will take note of and implement this important message of our report.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr miroslav mikolášik, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation (com (2008) 0818 - c6-0480/2008 - 2008/0238 (cod)) (a7-0106/2010) and the report by mr andres perello rodriguez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission communication action plan on organ donation and transplantation (2009-2015): enhanced cooperation between member states (2009/2104 (ini)) (a7-0103/2010).
acting president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to be here in this chamber to take part in the joint debate on organ donation and transplantation. it is certainly an important debate, firstly because it has a direct impact on people's lives, on the health of thousands of european citizens, and in this connection i would like to remind you that, despite the steady increase in the number of donations and transplants in recent years, there are currently an estimated 56 000 patients in the european union on the waiting list for a suitable organ and many of them die without having received it. and on the other hand, it is an important debate because it allows us to value the generosity and solidarity of our society. let me give you an example: there are currently 18 donors per million inhabitants in the european union. if we were able to increase this figure to match that of countries with higher figures, such as spain's 34 or portugal's over 30, an additional 20 000 lives would be saved every year in europe. similarly, encouraging organ donation by living donors throughout the european union to the levels of the scandinavian countries, the united kingdom or the netherlands would free an additional 2 000 people from dialysis every year. we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that without donors there is no transplant. this afternoon's debate will enable us to give a definitive impetus to the implementation of a common union strategy to achieve the world's largest organ donation and transplantation facility. in addition, article 168 of the recent lisbon treaty offers us the opportunity to create this common framework for quality and safety in the donation and transplantation process. to this end, we have two important initiatives from the commission today, initiatives which were presented in 2008 and on which the council, together with the european parliament, has worked very intensively and very generously in recent months. firstly, the proposal for a directive on the quality and safety of organs intended for transplantation, a directive which, as i said, establishes a common legal framework which should enable us to limit certain risks in the therapeutic use of organs at all stages of the process, from donation to transplantation, by ensuring the quality and safety of the organs, but also by protecting donors and recipients by designating the competent authorities. and secondly, we also have an action plan which helps to strengthen cooperation between member states with a threefold objective: firstly, to increase the availability of organs; secondly, to enhance the efficiency and accessibility of the transplant system; and thirdly, to improve quality and safety. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. and we do this by establishing a european model of donation and transplantation based on values and principles that we all share - i am referring to solidarity, equity and cohesion, which are precisely the hallmarks of the european union - helping to achieve self-sufficiency in organ donation and thus enabling us to combat transplant tourism. you will agree with me that the entry into force of this directive and the support of the european parliament for the action plan are in themselves a boost for the exchange of organs between the member states of the union and an incentive for donation as well. on the one hand, we are establishing a community framework which facilitates equal access for european citizens to health care in general and to transplantation therapy in particular, and on the other hand, this more efficient community framework directly benefits patients who, because of their characteristics, are less likely to find an organ suitable for their needs, thereby reducing organ loss due to lack of a suitable recipient in a given geographical area. ladies and gentlemen, before concluding, the spanish presidency would like to thank the czech and swedish presidencies for the work they have done in the run-up to the negotiations, which began in 2009 and have led to very important progress thanks to the cooperation of the member states and the commission. the spanish presidency would also like to thank the european parliament for its intensive work and especially the efforts of the rapporteurs, mr mikolášik and mr perelló, to bring about the necessary agreement and consensus. it is precisely thanks to the joint work of all the community institutions that we must find an agreement which will enable us to launch a european service which will provide coverage for 500 million people with the highest guarantees of quality and safety on the one hand and, on the other, promote equity in access to the treatments on which so many lives depend every year, as well as the solidarity of our society. let us appreciate what the european union means today.
member of the commission. − mr president, 56 000 europeans are waiting for an organ transplant in europe; for many of these people, a successful transplant is a matter of life and death. this is why we are here today: to ensure high-quality and safe organ transplantation across europe. this is what the commission’s proposal for a directive and the action plan are about. i would like to thank the rapporteur, dr mikolášik, and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work on the proposed directive on the quality and safety of organs. i would also like to thank mr perello rodriguez for his supportive own-initiative report on the action plan on organ donation and transplantation. let me recall that the key objectives of these two initiatives are to improve quality and safety for human organs for transplantation, to increase organ availability and to make transplantation systems more efficient and accessible. the proposal for a directive sets the legal framework for quality and safety requirements, and the action plan focuses on increasing the availability of organs, and the efficiency of transportation systems. the six-year action plan sets out 10 priority actions to reinforce cooperation between member states through joint actions and the sharing of best practices. i note the wishes of parliament to include in the action plan activities which could not become legal obligations in the directive under article 168 of the treaty, in particular regarding criteria for allocating organs, recording the wishes of potential donors and issues related to medical practices. the commission is willing to support the member states in addressing these issues of importance to parliament. with regard to the directive, i am very pleased that we are now close to a first-reading agreement following swift and constructive dialogue between parliament, the commission and the council. i believe that this is the first agreement to be reached at first reading since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i am convinced that the text with the amendments proposed includes parliament’s key concerns as set out in dr mikolášik’s report. allow me to comment on a few specific issues. i strongly support strengthening the principles of voluntary and unpaid donation, which are essential for ensuring the quality and safety of organs. i also welcome clarification that the principle of non-payment shall not prevent living donors from receiving compensation, provided that this is strictly limited to covering the expenses and loss of income related to the donation. i fully share parliament’s concern as regards combating organ trafficking. however, the scope of the proposal is limited to quality and safety as stipulated in the public health article of the treaty. in this context i welcome the text stating that the directive will indirectly contribute to combating organ trafficking, for example through the authorisation of transplantation centres, the establishment of conditions of procurement and systems of traceability of organs. i also understand parliament’s concern about transparent, non-discriminatory and scientific criteria for organ allocation. although the matter falls outside the eu’s sphere of responsibility, i can accept the inclusion of this principle in a recital. i also welcome the fact that the text proposed recognises that living donation coexists with deceased donation in most member states. living donation increases the number of available organs and i welcome the text strengthening the efforts to protect living donors as a means to guarantee quality and safety of organs for transplantation. moving on, as regards the provisions dealing with consent systems and certification of death, these issues are governed by national law. however, in the spirit of compromise, the commission can accept the additional clarifications proposed. i also note parliament’s wish to include in the action plan activities which cannot be covered by the directive, in particular regarding criteria for allocating organs, recording the wishes of potential donors and issues relating to medical practices. the commission is willing to support the member states to address these issues. let me also raise another issue: adopting a law is the first step. what really matters is that the law is implemented. this is why the commission insists that member states report how they transpose directives into national law: the ‘correlation tables’. parliament has always supported this. i regret that for the very first time, parliament does not support inclusion in the directive of the obligation for member states to report on transposition. finally, several amendments align the proposals to the comitology provisions of the lisbon treaty. i welcome the possibility granted to the commission to adopt, in clearly defined cases, delegated acts under the urgency procedure in this regard. i declare that the european commission undertakes to keep the european parliament and the council fully informed on the possibility of a delegated act being adopted under the urgency procedure. as soon as the commission services foresee that a delegated act might be adopted under the urgency procedure, they will informally warn the secretariats of the european parliament and the council. i also declare on behalf of the commission that the provisions of this directive shall be without prejudice to any future position of the institutions as regards the implementation of article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, or individual legislative acts containing such provisions. to conclude, let me state that the commission is prepared to support the compromise package.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. spain is the european football champion, most people know that, and that's nice, but not as important as this area: spain is also the european organ transplant champion. the key to the spanish model, and we should all understand this, is the organization in the hospitals. unfortunately, in other countries in europe, organs are lost, not because the relatives are unwilling to consent, or because the person concerned does not have an organ donation card or even objected, but because most organs in europe are simply lost because doctors do not have enough time to deal with the issue. spain has done much better in organising this through the transplant coordinators. wherever you adopt this system, more people can be saved, more people can live healthy lives -- independent of dialysis and other ailments. that is why we should make this point very clear to the member states in the perello report. the directive is primarily about quality and safety, but this also has an impact on people waiting for an organ. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. if we have common quality and safety standards, we can also improve cross-border organ transplants to help people. that is why this is an important point. the directive is very important in that we are fighting against organ trafficking. this is a subject we cannot turn a blind eye to. that is why i have invited an expert who has studied organ trafficking and the deliberate killing of people for the purpose of organ harvesting in china to come with some colleagues to the house tomorrow. i would ask all colleagues to take an interest in this subject. we have sent a clear signal with the directive and the action plan that voluntary, unpaid donation is legally binding, and i thank all those who have helped us to achieve these goals.
as for the list of speakers, the cause is being checked.
mr ouzký: thank you again for your information. we've been following this. there was a problem in the computer system's mapping. you will then be listed in the minutes as the person who spoke for your group. i hope that solves the problem. thanks for the heads-up.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have a co-worker who was in need of an organ transplant. i saw how happy he was to see this achievement. but i also saw how he waited and how his quality of life was limited. that is why it is important that we pass this motion now. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. this is highly socially relevant! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's use this! i am very pleased that we have enshrined in the directive the voluntary nature and gratuitousness of donations. this calls for respect for human dignity. as regards the decline in donors, i would ask the commission - which has already demonstrated this on several occasions - to encourage a culture of debate and information in europe in order to increase acceptance among the public. i do not think we should harmonize the different systems. here, the key is to coordinate them, and i think the introduction of a transplant coordinator in hospitals is an important approach. (the president cut the speaker off)
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 19 may 2010. (the sitting was suspended from 4.25 to 4.30 p.m.) written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the adoption of the rome statute and the establishment of the international criminal court is a success story. there are many examples of this. but the crucial point is that for the first time in history it is possible to hold high representatives of the state - civil or military - accountable for having ordered war crimes and crimes against humanity. the eu has given a wide range of very positive support to the establishment and work of the international criminal court and must continue to support and strengthen the court and protect its independence. the forthcoming review conference in kampala will take stock of what has been successful. what needs to be improved? and it is already clear that the states must make an effort at the national level to enact laws or to implement existing laws consistently in order to support the criminal court. many are still reluctant to arrest high-ranking individuals who have warrants against them. commissioner reding has pointed this out. the fear of diplomatic difficulties often outweighs the realisation that the criminal court needs this concrete support to be effective. the conference in kampala must deal with the definition of the term aggressive war. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we call on the commission and the member states to work intensively to ensure that this definition is included in the statute and thus in the jurisdiction of the criminal court. it is important to note that there is no restriction on the court's independence. and let me also end by stressing the importance of the eu being represented at the highest level at this conference. this is a signal of support for the court, but also a positive example for other governments.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my group expressly welcomes the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights. it is arguably the most important human rights instrument in europe, and the importance of the strasbourg court of human rights - perhaps also for my colleague mr fox - is shown by the fact that on average some 30 000 complaints are received there every year. in 2009, by the way, there were 57,000, and in 2009, the court issued 2,000 judgments, or more precisely, it had to issue those judgments. the eu has a court of justice, but unlike the european court of human rights, the ecj is not exclusively responsible for the protection of fundamental rights, and it is perhaps not entirely wrong to say that the ecj has not in the past claimed an exclusive leadership role in the development of european fundamental rights. both the council of europe and the eu call the forthcoming accession a historic event, and i think we in the plenary agree with that. as such, it will hopefully prove to be a success for the citizens of europe first and foremost, because it will create an area of valid human rights to which not only 47 governments but also the institutions of the european union are bound. in doing so, the eu sends a strong signal to the citizens of europe that it is not above the law when it comes to human rights and that citizens can bring legal action against those human rights if they are violated by community institutions. the actual design of the accession process itself will certainly present problems, and that is why it is important that we find the best solutions to the very difficult technical and legal problems here, quickly and constructively, with openness and creativity.
the commission has already done so. what we are working on here today is the expansion of law at the supranational level. the importance of this is that, in addition to looking at current human rights violations, i look at the terrible history of my own country. in fact, germans have committed the most monstrous crimes in history not by breaking laws, but by writing laws that justified wrongdoing and made the murder of jews, communists, christians, homosexuals, etc. a legal obligation. if such people, and especially those who ordered it, say afterwards that they did only what was right at the time and could not be held accountable for it, then this shows an incredible weakness of law and humanity. so what we've done here with the icc is a huge step forward, which is that all these people in the future know that there is a judge beyond national law and they have to live with being held accountable for their entire lives. this is a huge step forward, as is the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights, for which we have been working for a long time. i am glad that we can do this together here today, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ramón jáuregui atondo, in particular, for his excellent report.
member of the commission. − it might indeed be strange, as the honourable member has pointed out, that only three member states have asked for this mid-term review. however, that is the case according to the figures we had this morning. of course, many member states and many regions are severely affected by the economic crisis, but maybe some member states are finding that there are other ways and other means to handle this because, as we have seen, very few have asked for this review. seventeen member states were given the possibility but only three have done so. i think the honourable member would agree with me that the basic purpose of the long-term programme is of course that we should have continuity for the regions in order to plan for the long term. there are of course other means of addressing the crisis than this, but i am sure that commissioner almunia is willing to discuss this with you further on a later occasion.
member of the commission. − thank you, mr posselt, for your question on a very important subject. cross-border police cooperation with countries which are neighbours of the european union is primarily a competence of the member states. however, the european union supports bilateral cooperation between the member states and ukraine mainly through the operation of europol. on 4 december 2009, an agreement on strategic cooperation between europol and ukraine was signed that will allow coordination of the work to fight against international organised and serious crime and terrorism. however, the strategic agreement does not allow the exchange of personal information on suspects. that can only be exchanged with countries who have concluded an operational agreement with europol, and, before such an agreement can be concluded, ukraine needs to adopt a law on personal data protection and to ratify the 1981 council of europe convention on the protection of individuals with regard to automatic processing of personal data and its protocol. this is part of a broader commission priority to see ukraine establish a personal data protection regime in line with european standards. that would allow the establishment of an actual independent data protection supervision authority, which could be supported by technical and expert assistance from the eu. the eu also supports financial police cooperation with ukraine through a twinning project, increasing the capacity of the ukrainian police and the european union border assistance mission (eubam). and last year eubam, with the cooperation of frontex, with olaf and the south-east european cooperation initiative, supported the nikoniy joint border control operation to improve cooperation between the ukrainian and the moldovan police forces in fighting cross-border crime and irregular migration.
a writer. - i just wanted to ask about support for police training and strengthening the judiciary and internal affairs authorities in ukraine. is this a priority in the eastern partnership and are the commission and the european police college involved in this? or is this only at the level of the member states?
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would refer to a press statement issued by the commission on 19 december last year in connection with the aid decision on the dutch social housing scheme itself. i quote: 'the commission decision confirms its previous policy that member states have considerable discretion in setting the criteria and conditions for social housing and other services of general economic interest.' that's the quote. my question is: how does this statement by the commission fit in with the fact that the commission has imposed on the netherlands, by this decision, fixed income limits for social housing? is this within the commission's competence and how does it relate to subsidiarity and proportionality? i would also like to ask the commission how the decision that the need for social mixing is formally recognised and that it opposes social segregation is compatible with the fact that at the same time a fixed ratio of a maximum of 10% above the threshold of eur 30 000 is prescribed and that it also says that if at some point more than 10% above this threshold of eur 30 000 in social housing gets a flat, compensation must be sought in other areas of the netherlands? because this is a very firm and very rigid regulation as far as the question of social mixing is concerned! how does this fit in with subsidiarity and, as you yourself said in your press statement, with the considerable margin of manoeuvre for the member states in defining the criteria and conditions for social housing and other services of general interest?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. you have just said, mr andor, that no european regulation sets a limit of eur 33 000. but our dutch colleagues have set this limit of their own free will, probably because they were afraid that otherwise the european commission would demand the establishment of clear criteria at some point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because it's about people who don't have enough money to move around freely. that is why it is very important that we create a legal framework and legal certainty by really clarifying what is possible. the services of general economic interest are indeed in need of protection, they are provided at local level in the member states and they are universal, and we must also ensure that they are really offered to all people. and that is why we should think about - i know that the employment committee is thinking about it - asking the european commission to provide a legal framework for the protection of services of general economic interest, especially in the social field, and i think that is a good thing if it happens!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. all over europe, our towns and cities are struggling with problem areas. we are trying to solve this problem all over europe by bringing the most deprived neighbourhoods and the people who live there into the normal life of the rest of the city. but if we now apply criteria to social housing, as the commission is doing here, if we apply criteria which explicitly exclude - as some colleagues have already mentioned - any mixing of the population in such areas, then this will counteract all the efforts that local authorities have made for decades. it also counters the actions which the european union has called for in the urban and urban ii community initiatives. if we limit the criteria for the promotion of social housing to the fact that only the poorest of the poor, the most disadvantaged of the disadvantaged, can actually receive a subsidy and be supported in the framework of social housing, then we prevent precisely this much-needed mixing of the population in disadvantaged urban areas. this will lead to more social exclusion of these very groups and will only add to the problems in our cities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, we have a rather global issue here, namely the question of the principle of subsidiarity and the universality of public social services in the eu as a whole. but the example of the netherlands brings social housing into the focus of the debate. this is not an isolated case, and for years tenant associations and tenant representatives in particular have suspected that the european competition orientation is at least limiting, if not making impossible, the construction of social housing in europe. now, apart from the need for food and clothing, the need for housing is one of the basic human needs, and therefore housing is also considered a social good, and preventing homelessness is a societal challenge. this is reflected in the fact that in states that take into account the welfare of their citizens, either housing is promoted or housing is supported individually depending on people's income. the european union is, of course, a special case now that many countries from eastern, central and south-eastern europe have joined. the different structures of housing in the former western and eastern europe make it necessary to compare the structures of housing support and housing in the member states, especially after the recent enlargements of the european union. the way in which housing was privatised in many eastern, central and south-eastern european member states immediately after the political changes, and in particular the shortage of housing there, prompted the european parliament to react by providing structural funds for housing in these countries. nevertheless, housing policy is always a response to national, regional and, above all, local circumstances, a classic case of a subsidiary policy area which does not require and avoids supranational regulation. the market rules are only very limitedly applicable to housing as a social good in the context of social security.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. we have already spoken about the ash cloud and the problems it caused in air transport immediately after the volcanic eruption. we have noticed a number of things in the crisis. firstly, we have found that aviation is really essential to the transport sector, because not only were passengers stranded, but goods could not be transported either. in germany, for example, bmw had some production bottlenecks because deliveries did not come. we realized that we need all means of transportation, including air transport. secondly, we have noticed that it is a real crisis for airlines when they cannot fly for several days. five days off, the airlines said, you can still handle it. 20 days might have caused the entire airline industry to collapse for a long time. we do not need to talk about compensation at the moment, as the airlines themselves say, but if it had taken longer, it would have been necessary. the rights of passengers have been raised by other members on several occasions. they have now been put to the test by example of whether, even in such exceptional cases, everything can be done in terms of information, compensation and also compensation for the passengers, in so far as they need it and as we have originally set out here. i would like to focus on two points: the first is the single european sky. we do not have a single european airspace, and we have sorely missed that this time too. we all know that even with a single airspace we could not have prevented the volcano from erupting, but we could certainly have had a smoother evacuation of the passengers. well, we already hired a fab coordinator. it is now beginning to work and we all hope very much that its work can lead to a single european airspace in the relatively near future. the question is also how long it will take to actually have that. maybe you can't answer it exactly. we have already discussed here whether, with better coordination in europe, which we have been wanting for a long time and have had on paper for a long time, the railway sector could have helped to make passengers return home faster. we have also seen clearly where our difficulties lie. the last question is: do we have a good crisis management system for such cases? we have the institute in london. the london institute is actually there to provide information on earthquakes. it also handles volcanic eruptions on the rim. now it has - and this has been criticized - computed based on leaked data. what can we learn from other parts of the world -- like the united states, indonesia, where volcanoes erupt more often? what are they doing with the other readings? from what i understand, they're better prepared for something like this. we may not have expected this in europe, but we must draw the consequences. we are a high-technology area, with many possibilities, and researchers in germany, for example, have already called for a specialised measurement network for aerosols, for the tiny items that exist in volcanic ash. what do you think we can still accomplish? how can we improve our technologies in the interests of aviation, people and goods?
acting president of the council. - mr president, everyone knows that we are living through a period of exceptional financial turbulence. we have been able to say for some months now that this is the case and that its origin goes back not a few months but a couple of years, when the subprime crisis occurred in the united states. the origin is therefore a financial crisis in the private sector of the financial system, which quickly becomes something that affects the real economy in the form of a deep depression, a deep recession - in technical terms: there is a decline in production and a significant increase in unemployment, which is especially serious in those countries where the real estate or residential construction sector has a significant weight. there is an immediate reaction from the member countries, from the central banks, to prevent the collapse of the financial system, and there is also a reaction in relation to the real economy. this reaction has, of course, consequences for public economies, for public finances. we are no longer talking about private finance, but public finance. and there is, firstly, a crisis of financial stability in the public accounts as a result of very large deficits. there is also a sovereign debt crisis. in recent months, this has been the main feature of the situation, encouraged, moreover, by very volatile market movements, sometimes even actions of a clearly speculative nature, which also produce a significant increase in the interest that the markets ask for from the states when they issue debt. and, moreover, this clearly affects the whole of the euro area and therefore becomes a problem which is not of one, two or three countries, but which affects the whole of the stability of the euro area. here's the situation. this is the set of events or the diagnosis of facts which the european union takes into account in order to react and act in relation to the above. and i think the european union has acted correctly all along. you may have seemed slow in your decision. it may have seemed exasperatingly slow at times in some decisions, but it has produced correct results, sensible results, results of prudent action by the european union and, above all, coordinated action by the european union. although it may seem that various measures are preventing us from seeing the whole picture, i believe that the european union has established a strategy appropriate to the circumstances, which must necessarily include short-term measures and must look more at the medium and long term, because it is a question of preventing a crisis like this from happening again. in the short term - as we have already said - there is, firstly, an injection of public money and coordination by the european union: the so-called european economic recovery plan, sponsored by the commission; a plan that coordinates the immediate action, the shock treatment, that the states are taking to limit - not to make disappear - the damage of this enormous crisis. one manifestation of this short-term action is undoubtedly the aid to greece, which had already been warned by the commission months ago of a difficult situation in its public accounts. and the council is making a number of recommendations to greece under article 126 (9) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and the council and the commission are following developments in that country. not only is it given recommendations in relation to its liquidity situation in the public accounts, but it is also given recommendations on structural reforms in the pension system and the need to address reforms in the health system. and so we come to 23 april, when a mechanism of action in respect of greece is approved; that mechanism had, just yesterday, a first manifestation in a transfer of funds to greece by countries of the european union through the system of this concerted mechanism. we are therefore faced with a first expression of this short-term action which must necessarily be carried out in a state in serious difficulties, as is the case with greece. of course, in the short term too - and this is very clearly expressed in the oral question put to us by mr daul, mr verhofstadt, mr schulz and others - we need a strategy for overcoming the crisis, a measured and controlled strategy, which must of course aim at avoiding serious, serious difficulties in public accounts, but which must also maintain the objective of growth. but obviously, the short term is not enough. medium and long-term measures must be taken. because there are structural problems in the european economy; structural problems that are, in the final analysis, what have weakened the european union in the face of a situation of profound volatility, of profound financial turbulence. and the european union is taking and proposing measures in the medium and long term which are important to note. firstly, because they will respond to the kind of crisis that has occurred as a result of this serious economic situation affecting the whole of the european union and, in particular, the euro area system. in order to respond to the financial crisis, the european union has put in place a series of measures which are being discussed in this house - the european parliament - these very days: a supervisory package, which i hope will be adopted as soon as possible and that the council and the european parliament will reach agreement on it. as part of this or in connection with it, ecofin yesterday approved a measure: the regulation of so-called hedge funds, alternative funds or high-risk funds. i am referring to the question by mrs harms and mr cohn-bendit, who emphasize this point very strongly. the prospect of action at the g20 in the implementation of what was agreed at the g20 must also be taken into account. we have also said that the european union has structural weaknesses and that structural reforms are needed. this is the aim of the europe 2020 strategy, which is based on the commitment of the member countries to address certain objectives through a series of integrated guidelines which will also be accompanied by national plans to be projected in the so-called reform plans. it is also important to note that, alongside the europe 2020 strategy, the commission's communication of 12 may on the coordination of economic policies is an important step forward in the whole production system. the europe 2020 strategy is therefore a way of responding to a fundamental problem in the productive economic system, a way of preventing such fundamental weaknesses in the system in the future, a way of giving competitiveness and productivity to the union's economic system and of addressing those technological added value objectives, taking into account the social impact and therefore the need for labour specialisation, employability and also the fight against climate change. but there is not only a problem with the private financial system, there is not only a problem with the productive structure, also of the private sector essentially: there is a problem of public accounts, to which another aspect of the medium and long-term measures of the european union is also directed, that is to say, the measures contained in the commission's proposal of 12 may which began to be discussed yesterday in the ecofin and which will continue to be discussed. those measures are aimed at maintaining budgetary discipline, ensuring compliance with the stability and growth pact and establishing means of crisis resolution or prevention. the task force has been set up and will meet for the first time on friday, 21 may, under the chairmanship of president van rompuy, with the aim of maintaining budgetary discipline and using the commission document on the coordination of economic and budgetary policies presented by commissioner olli rehn. this has to do with all these longer-term measures, which also include the debate which is being opened in the european union on taxation of profits in the financial sector and a taxation which is being discussed, including in the g20, which is a tax on financial transactions, which is also being discussed in the european union. this is something that mrs harms and mr cohn-bendit stress in their question. it is important to note that all the institutions of the european union are working in this direction. this was already discussed at the european council in december last year. the international monetary fund was asked to undertake a study on a tax on international financial transactions. it was discussed at the european council in march, it was raised by the commission on 1 april and it was also discussed at the ecofin council yesterday. so we are faced with another measure which will undoubtedly be discussed at the g20, and which is of the utmost importance; these are measures which i have called medium and long-term measures proposed by the european union. for example, just yesterday at the european union-latin america summit in madrid, a reform of the financial system was also proposed. i mean, the european union is raising these issues in all the forums it goes to. in short, mr president, the steps are being taken and the conditions are being created for moving towards what has been called economic governance of the union, in which the european council is actively involved - with the council, the commission and the european parliament as the legislative and supervisory bodies. i think we can say, therefore, in conclusion, mr president, that it is true that the crisis has clearly revealed the inadequacies of european monetary union in the absence of economic union, an economic union which is provided for in the treaties but not in reality. we have stayed in monetary union, but we have not moved to economic union. these measures taken by the european union in the short, medium and long term clearly set the union on the road to economic union. it is a crisis which has weakened our economies, which has tested the european union, but it has not brought it down, it has not fragmented it. the european union has responded, sometimes slowly - it seemed to us - but surely, sometimes hesitantly - it seems to us - but in any case, with unity, and it has been a correct response, adequate to the challenges we have at the moment. i hope that the european council in june will consolidate this direction towards this kind of european economic governance, towards a united reaction to this crisis by the european union, and that it will therefore adequately prepare the common position of the european union at the very important g20 meeting in toronto on the regulation of the financial system and on the important debate on taxation of international financial transactions.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome this debate on the crisis response of the european union and on the immediate and longer-term challenges of economic governance we are facing. i shall start with the immediate challenges and the crisis response. ten days ago the european union took bold and necessary decisions to safeguard financial stability in europe. it was a dual response to the aggravated crisis, which had turned into a systemic challenge to the euro. it was a response that i would call a consolidation pact. first we agreed on a european financial stability mechanism that provides a financial backstop for up to eur 500 billion, which will be supplemented by imf funding at a ratio of 2:1. secondly, we agreed to accelerate fiscal consolidation in those member states where it is most urgently needed. with these decisions, europe came up with a credible package that shows our citizens, the markets and the wider world that we will defend the euro – our common currency – whatever it takes. we are not doing it for the sake of the mystical market forces but for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation in europe, by ensuring that the threats to financial stability will not kill the economic recovery that is now in progress – though this is still rather modest and fragile. this is our responsibility in relation to our citizens, and we are delivering in very concrete terms. yesterday, coordinating and managing on behalf of the euro-area member states, the commission delivered eur 14.5 billion for greece, which the imf has complemented with eur 5.5 billion. we said we would be ready to meet the immediate needs of refinancing, and we delivered on time. of course, this is all conditional on a full and complete implementation of the programme designed, together with the greek government, by the commission, in liaison with the ecb and the imf. the european central bank has also taken extraordinary measures to tackle the attacks we have recently seen on the euro. beyond that, our member states have understood the paramount importance of fiscal consolidation to ensure the sustainability of public finances and thus preconditions for sustainable economic growth. last week, spain and portugal presented significant new fiscal consolidation measures which are important and difficult but at the same time are necessary steps in order to reduce the ballooning public deficits in 2010 and 2011. the commission will present a comprehensive assessment of the adequacy of the new targets and measures in the course of the next two weeks. let me underline that a faster reduction of the public deficit is indeed an essential component of the financial stability package that was agreed on 10 may by ecofin. it is equally important that both countries adopt structural reforms that will contribute to increase potential growth, especially reforms of the labour markets and pension systems. while accelerated fiscal consolidation is an immediate priority throughout europe, at the same time we need to coordinate our economic and fiscal policies by applying differentiation among the member states. in other words, the efforts of fiscal consideration need to be differentiated according to fiscal space and economic vulnerability. countries with little or no fiscal space will need to front-load and accelerate measures, while others with better fiscal space should maintain their less restrictive fiscal policy stances for the sake of growth and jobs in europe. of course it would be a mistake to stop our efforts here. let us recall that the first 10 years of the euro have been a success story: that is the starting point. but the crisis has shown that we need to acknowledge its systemic shortcomings. peer pressure has lacked teeth, good times were not used to reduce public debt, and macroeconomic imbalances were ignored. this is precisely the reason why last week, on 12 may, the commission presented an ambitious set of proposals to reinforce economic governance in europe. we want to strengthen preventive budgetary surveillance, address macroeconomic imbalances and set up a permanent and robust framework for crisis management. i count on parliament’s support for these important proposals. they are at the heart of making europe 2020 a success in the coming years. our proposals are based on two principles. first, prevention is always better than correction – not to mention letting a situation escalate into a crisis, as we have seen. second, stronger fiscal surveillance should be accompanied by broader macroecomic surveillance, to go to the roots and origins of sustainable economic development. our proposals are made of three building blocks. first, we must reinforce both the preventive and corrective arms of the stability and growth pact. the essential cornerstone of reinforcing economic governance is to coordinate fiscal policy in advance, in order to ensure that national budgets are consistent with the jointly-agreed european policies and obligations, so that they will not put at risk the stability of the euro area as a whole and that of the other member states. let me be very clear about this: this will not mean scrutinising national budgets, budget line by budget line. we have neither the intention nor the resources for that. instead it will mean analysing and peer-reviewing the broad budgetary guidelines and fiscal balance before the submission of the draft national budgets by governments to parliament with the legal right, based on the treaty and pact, for the eu to make recommendations and ask for corrective action from the member states concerned. some have criticised this, saying that this is a breach of parliamentary sovereignty. i myself am a former member of a national and the european parliament, and i am fully aware of the sensitivities of parliamentary fiscal powers. however, everyone can see that this is not about breaching democracy or parliamentary sovereignty but ensuring that our member states respect those very same rules which they have themselves decided on previously: in other words, to practice what you preach. we need to introduce a truly european dimension to economic policy-making in europe: it is not enough to look only afterwards at international decisions. in the eu, in particular in the euro area, we know only too well that national decisions have an impact beyond national borders, and therefore there will have to be coordination at european level before those national decisions. the second building block is to go beyond budgetary surveillance to broaden and deepen surveillance, to address macroeconomic imbalances. why is this important? the divergences in competitiveness and the gap between the surplus and deficit countries of the euro area has widened in the past 10 years. this has been at the root and origin of why the financial crisis hit the eu so hard, especially some of our member states. we should prevent and tackle emerging problems before they escalate into a crisis. therefore we propose to define indicators and a scoreboard, agree alert thresholds and give recommendations and early warnings if necessary. these indicators could include, for instance, productivity trends, unit labour costs and current account developments. it is self-evident that this does not mean that we would want to weaken the export performance of any country; of course not. instead it aims at rebalancing economic growth in europe as a whole. we need to reinforce export competitiveness where needed and domestic demand where needed and possible. that is the way to play as a european team for the benefit of the whole of europe. thirdly, we need to be very clear to whoever is watching the euro area that we will never be defeated. to discourage anyone from even trying our vigour, we need a permanent and robust framework for crisis management for the euro-area member states. the temporary mechanism established on 10 may is a bold first step in that direction, but for the medium to long term the commission will propose a more permanent mechanism, subject to strict policy conditionality and, of course, drawing on the lessons of recent experience. yes, we need to avoid moral hazards. that is why we must make the mechanism so unattractive that no leader or country is voluntarily tempted to resort to it. but recent experience has shown that it is better to have a fire brigade ready for a possible bush fire than only start building the fire brigade up when the fire has already turned into a broader forest fire. it is better to be safe than sorry. to conclude, these commission proposals pave the way for a quantum leap in economic governance in europe, but i also want to draw your attention to another immensely important decision – on the same day we proposed these measures – namely the proposal for estonia to become a member of the euro area on its own merits. just to give you one figure: while the average debt in europe is, at the moment, around 75%, in estonia it is around 7.5% – not 75% but 7.5% – on a sustainable basis. this proposal sends an important signal to all that the euro area will withstand pressure with self-confidence, and sustainable economic and fiscal policies will bring fruit for member states. all in all, the commission’s initiatives, once adopted, will lead to a substantial deepening of economic governance in europe and to a prudent widening of the euro area. indeed, in the emu it is high time to fill the ‘e’ with life.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are having this debate in a very serious situation which threatens the european union. we have left behind us decades of laissez-faire ideology, decades in which anyone who questioned the supposed superiority of the capitalist economic system has been put down. this economic system has led us into the deepest financial, economic and employment crisis since the end of the second world war and also into the deepest moral and institutional legitimacy crisis since the end of the second world war. this system is wrong. it's partly immoral, it's partly perverse. i want to give you an example because many of our citizens do not understand our expert-speak. what is the deal with credit default swaps, with credit default insurance? they can take out insurance, which is then used as a commodity. let's make this practical. joseph daul's beautiful farmhouse must have fire insurance. if i can buy joseph daul's fire insurance - me, martin schulz - and in the event that his house burns down, the insurance money gets paid out - me, not him - then all i need is someone, like dany, to set the thing on fire, then i'm a done man. it is a perverse system and it should be abolished and banned. and that's exactly the kind of mechanism we're talking about. these are not the funny examples, this is the end of the pension fund of the california teachers union, which wanted to buy a german airline through a hedge fund. he didn't succeed, so he bought something else. but the pension fund went bust. a whole generation of teachers who have spent 40 years in the system are broke, ruined. this is the reality of an economic system that has reached its limit and that needs to be chained. now it is up to governments. we have heard from you, mr lópez garrido and mr rehn. it's all good. we are reacting, we are impulsive, and we are reacting too late, i think! many things should have been settled much earlier - and this has been called for many times in this house - and i am not going to go into the details of the matter. we're going to hedge funds now. but when will the european rating agency come? is it normal that an american rating agency, at the exact moment when speculation against greece is at its peak, is already targeting the next target and downgrading portugal? what are these organs that decide the fate of entire peoples? they belong under control and rules! it is not just now, but years ago that this should have been done, and it was also requested here years ago, but it was rejected. it has been rejected by the same governments which today claim to be the managers of this crisis. (calling) mr langen, i know that you are going to table a motion this afternoon to make carnival day a non-parliamentary day. that's good. only when you are here is every sitting of parliament a carnival. i'm really sorry about that. we have structural deficits in the eu which we must address institutionally. we are supposed to have created an economic and monetary union. the reality is that we have created a monetary union and not an economic union. we have a patchwork of economic policies in europe, with 16 sovereign states pursuing uncoordinated economic policies, sometimes contradictory to each other, in a single currency area. this is a great danger. arni and his beautiful california are totally broke, but that doesn't affect the dollar at all, because california's economic policy is in the united states' single currency area. if 2.8% of the eurozone's gdp is at risk, as in greece, a serious crisis will break out. this deficit must be eliminated. that's why we need a business government! anyone else who disagrees with that doesn't hear the shot. we are facing a crisis of legitimacy of the gravest proportions. people are seeing this economic system fail, and they have no faith in this system. they see that the state institutions are the drivers of this system, including the supranational institutions, and accordingly they no longer have confidence in these institutions. at this stage, many people are seeking to escape this globalised, europeanised challenge by returning to national rhetoric. this triple contradiction, the crisis of confidence in our economic system, in our state institutions and the retreat of many state institutions into the national rather than seeking solutions in international structures - this is a mixture that endangers the eu as a whole. that is why we need an economic government, and we need the strength to enforce our own rules at the end. finally, mr joseph daul, the chairman of the group of new democracy representatives, should refrain from criticising other parties.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. my group has once again decided to be positive about the financial stabilisation mechanism agreed at the crisis weekend in brussels just under two weeks ago. we are combining this support with a clear commitment to more common economic policies and more common fiscal policies. this is not new to my group. we're in the middle of a long tradition. we are also asking the spanish presidency, mr rehn, to make a serious decision at last to stop at the european level merely fighting the symptoms of the crisis and to tackle the crisis in its entirety. our analysis is that we've been treating symptoms since 2008. since 2008, since the lehman bust, we've been rescuing banks. i 'll say it again . you have to be honest with the citizens! the euro has not yet stabilised in the last weekend before last. the first is that a large number of german and french banks were rescued last weekend. the stock market afterwards showed very clearly what had happened, but we must get out of this rescue. it's costing billions and billions! we no longer know where to get this money and we are confident - if you look at the ecofin agreement - that we are only taking mini-steps towards a return to government regulation of the financial markets. we are putting this at the heart of our demand today: the state must return to the financial markets with great determination. it is not possible for him to be held in check by banks and speculators, who are then scolded! yes, banks are systemically important, but something must be terribly wrong in this system if we are tolerated by politics to be pushed to the edge of our states' viability over and over again. let me summarize this briefly. we now need to make certain things clear, there are signs that things are going in the right direction in some eu countries, but we believe that all the toxic paper and short selling must be banned throughout the eu, that hedge funds belong to the very shortest line and that the introduction of a financial transaction tax should no longer be just for sunday speeches, but that we need this tax, among other things, to also refinance what we do with public money. the participation of banks and speculators must not be a mere sunday talk, but we can actually guarantee it by introducing this tax. the second thing that concerns me very much is the future of a coordinated budgetary policy in the european union, budgetary discipline. i know that word very well from germany. i would suggest that we agree again on what we really want in the context of crisis management and the vote on europe 2020, how the member states, how europe should present itself to our citizens in five or ten years' time at the level of state responsibility. the european strategy is now to be a scapegoat for the social responsibility of the state? i would like to know how you imagine this: kindergartens, schools, universities, libraries, pension funds, hospitals, museums, theatres. my colleague daniel cohn-bendit said a week ago that greece needs more time to make its recovery plan. i am aware of the disastrous financial situation in many member states. i think it's gonna take a while to tell you how to do it. as i said, a social goat versus a social goat would certainly be the most wrong thing the european union can do at the moment, but that does not mean that we should not pursue a careful budgetary policy and achieve intergenerational justice. we greens have indeed supported such budgets in germany time and again. i would like to make one final point. to undermine climate policy, to undermine sustainable development today, as it seems, would be to actually implement the devil's script. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. we must ensure jobs through innovation, via viability, via sustainability, and for that we also need money! it's taboo to talk about new taxes. but i say to you today that i am convinced that we will not get out of the current crisis unless we break the taboo of the state, the role of the state and the need for smart taxation! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the recent council meetings have shown that there are profound changes. what we are witnessing is a process of governmentalisation of european politics. in lisbon, was not the role of parliament praised, its strengthening? we promised that too. in fact, very basic agreements are now being made between governments and unimaginably large sums are being spent. the parliaments have so far had too little to say, and we must defend ourselves. the method used by the rulers has led to the inflow of huge sums of money into the rescue of heavily indebted banks. these governments have saved casino capitalism with tax dollars. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. somewhere they dug up 750 billion euros. the question is, will the money printing press save economic development? i think it's more about saving the banks' capital. the european union must be more than a free internal market with a single currency. president barroso is right when he says that without economic union, we can forget about monetary union. i can't see any clear contours yet, though. the boasting about the failure of the stability and growth pact has relatively little to do with meaningful economic policy coordination. there is no social union. what is missing is the sustainable effective re-regulation of the financial sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is time to safeguard the welfare state through the eu institutions, not to destroy it. the fear of the greeks and other populations is also due to the fact that they see how social access is being used. it is time to argue for a harmonization of social standards at a high level. hedge funds are outlawed, tax havens finally dried up. the fight against the financial crisis is progressing at a snail's pace. that is not enough, given the speculative speed. it is absolutely wrong, in the increasingly frequent emergencies, to socialize the billions as losses and to privatize the profits. the banks cannot use the state's help directly from the taxpayer. i am sure that under the present circumstances the concept of bank robber will have to be redefined.
mr president, mr lópez garrido, who represents the council, ladies and gentlemen! i have a very specific question to ask, to help us get out of this helplessness and out of this fog that is over the crisis, where you never know why this crisis has arisen and how we're going to find out again. mr schulz has spoken of these very critical speculative products, credit default insurance and harmful short selling, which have pushed greece to the brink of disaster and which could be a major problem for portugal and for many others. why, mr lópez garrido, and you have met frequently recently in the ecofin council, has it not been possible to ban these products in a concerted action by the member states? i've asked this in my own national capital many times over the past weeks and months, and it took you months to ban harmful short selling just last night. i wonder why the child always has to fall first in the well before we can take the appropriate legislative measures that we have today to protect people and economies? i think it has something to do with you saying there's this terrible slowness, this annoying, sickening slowness in the council. i am proposing a pact: we, the european parliament, are making concrete proposals. we have suggested that we can take appropriate measures at european level with regard to the regulation of supervisory bodies and in the discussion on hedge funds, and we will do so, mr langen, if you do what you always say, also with regard to derivatives. we are now asking you very urgently, we are calling on you to finally get the council to act to make this a law with us, so that we can act in europe and no longer have to wait for this endless slowness of the council, but have the european instruments in hand to move forward. please help the council make this work. but the council must now legislate to do so. that's the crucial point.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the day we celebrated 60 years of the schuman plan, 9 may 2010, the council, with the commission's participation, put an end to the monnet method. for example, a legal basis has been chosen for grants which excludes the involvement of parliament article 122 (2). the commission has allowed itself to be taken advantage of, and i can agree with the criticism of mr verhofstadt: it is not a crisis of the system, it is not a crisis of the euro, it is a crisis of governments. and when i see the spanish president of the council here, i ask myself: what has the spanish presidency of the council achieved? i have no idea, no impulse, and i'm not going to do it. while we are discussing europe's most difficult problem, you are holding a summit in madrid - you are very lucky - but that is what requires us to be here. the commission has accepted all this. the commission has been duped by the council, and after a great deal of childbirth, it has produced a communication without a single concrete proposal. i can only agree with mr bullmann. where are the concrete proposals? can we now have a basis for discussion for the next two or three years? that's not enough! we want the commission to have the courage to take the initiative for the monnet method, for the community method, for common institutions and common proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that's what's causing this crisis. the debt of the states, that they did not comply with it, is the cause. the diversionary manoeuvres against parts of the financial market are going wrong. mr schulz has not spoken here as if he were capable of more than the leadership of his party, but he is right on one point, and i should like to say that in conclusion. we too regret that our greek colleagues in our group did not support this package in the greek parliament. i think that's irresponsible. but we also have the right to point out that all the crisis states in europe, all those that have blocked, great britain, hungary, portugal, spain, are run by socialist governments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the markets are driving european governments forward. they finally react, but they react ex post, they do not act in advance, ex ante. it is a scandal that governments and the commission do not react until the markets show real weaknesses. they should have recognized these weaknesses in time. when the euro was introduced, we knew that we didn't have the monetary and fiscal policy in one go, as we normally have in the nation states. we have therefore taken steps to create a replacement, but we have not kept to it, the rulebook has been broken, also by large member states, very quickly and from the very beginning. we need a strong set of rules with sanction mechanisms: name and shame, loss of voting rights, suspension of payments from european funds, even fines. secondly, it has become clear that we have internal tensions in the eurozone which are about to lead to a real test of strength because we have different developments in competitiveness. the commission must act. it must examine the budgets of individual member states to see whether they pose a threat to the euro area. we know, of course, that budgetary law is the royal prerogative of the national parliaments. but that is no reason why there should not be a common european approach. it is urgently needed, we need more europe, not less europe. this may be our last chance. if the commission and the council do not act together with parliament, i fear that we will eventually be faced with a large pile of debris.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in the current debate on the functioning of european economic governance, i think the long-term perspective is still far too short. the time is right to incorporate short-term stabilisation measures into a long-term strategy. for that, we need a market economy vision. the basic principle of the social market economy is already enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. it must be filled with life now. the social market economy was the success model of the economic miracle in germany. the spiritus rector, walter eugen, already noted in 1950 that the economic activity of the state should be directed towards shaping the forms of economic organization, not towards directing the economic process. i therefore advocate a regulatory approach, i.e. government measures which influence the economic environment through general laws. the state does not create jobs, but it must create a regulatory framework, and that is what we should be focusing on. competitiveness is the result of economies, it is not at the beginning.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the same point of order: it is not enough for the president to take note of this. i demand that this be stopped!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have read in the voting list that you, mr president, intend to declare motion no 2 inadmissible. i ask you to reconsider. it is true that article 229 of the treaty provides that a meeting of the european parliament is to be held on the second tuesday in march. but that does not contradict the motion tabled by my group. the proposal from my group seeks to move the strasbourg week from the tenth to the eleventh week. that does not prevent you from holding a plenary session on the second tuesday in march. we want the strasbourg week to be in the 11th week, so i say there is no inadmissibility here. i would ask you to reconsider.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry, but it's not gonna be that easy. you have quoted article 229 quite correctly, but it does not contradict our amendment. article 229 refers to a day in march, namely the second tuesday in march. our amendment refers to the whole of the strasbourg week, to four days. that is why it must be possible to postpone this plenary week in strasbourg from the tenth to the eleventh week. this does not prevent anyone from holding a meeting in brussels on the second tuesday in march. this is what the treaty provides for, as you yourself say.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we do not need to go around this vote, but we can decide directly. the committee on the environment recommends that the plenary should prevent the sticking together of pieces of meat and therefore not include thrombin as an additive. a steak has to be a steak, a ham has to be a ham. i am sure that the voters of all members of parliament want it that way. that is why you are supporting our proposal not to include thrombin as an additive in our food regulation!
member of the commission. − mr president, when considering the authorisation of the food additive thrombin, the commission’s collaboration with all member states considered carefully all four requirements set out in the regulation on food additives. these are: the safety aspect; whether there is a reasonable technological need; information aspects; and advantages and benefits to consumers. as regards safety and hygiene, efsa evaluated the product and concluded that this additive raised no safety concerns. as for hygiene i cannot share the view that, in this case, the risk of contamination is higher than other products, for example minced meat. secondly, the reasonable technological need for this product has been established. the enzyme preparation functions as a stabiliser in the final meat product. this technological function is explicitly described in the food additives regulation, which was adopted by parliament. thirdly, information aspects and, in particular, the major concerns expressed in the report that the product would mislead the consumer. because we are fully aware of the possible risk of this, our proposal includes the following strict requirements – which, incidentally, go further than what is usually required for food additives. firstly, the product can only be sold pre-packed to the final consumer. secondly, the product must carry additional labelling and the term ‘combined meat parts’ must be mentioned in the proximity of the sales name. the consumer, therefore, will be well informed about the nature of the product. thirdly, the name of the enzyme and its animal origin must be mentioned in the list of ingredients. i must emphasise that these labelling requirements are more stringent than the requirements that apply to products to which other ingredients, such as blood proteins and authorised additives, have been added for the same purpose but for which no additional labelling is required. if more stringent labelling requirements are indicated, they will be considered. the enzyme preparation in question is already used in several member states as a processing aid without any labelling requirements. our proposal clarifies the situation and would oblige member states to apply the required labelling rules. as a consequence, the consumer would be better informed. furthermore, consumers, especially those who needs more support, will benefit from the availability of cheaper meat products as better use is made of valuable meat pieces occurring during the processing of meat. this additive is, in my opinion, an example of a food-sector development which will benefit consumers. i see no reason for its suppression and hope very much that you will appreciate the entirely valid reasons i have set out as to why it should be approved. i have made a commitment to parliament; i will not tell people what to eat. but i will tell them what they are eating. my position is in line with this commitment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i appreciate you and your presidency very much, but today i have to protest. you have given the floor to many colleagues, twice to mr lehne and to mr gollnisch and mr fox. i also called the calendar to ask for a point of order, and that was because of one important point: i would ask you to examine whether motion no 4, which we rejected, but that is a matter of principle, was not also unlawful, because the treaty does not provide for 12 plenary sessions a year, but 12 monthly plenary sessions a year, and the fox motion was an attempt to combine the august and september plenary sessions in one week. it is not a september 1 and september 2 plenary, but an august and september plenary. i really must make this clear, this is clearly illegal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report and congratulate my colleague, mr mikolášik, on his excellent work, because i think it is a great day that we have achieved today uniform standards and greater safety for both donors and recipients of organs. i hope that it will also help to facilitate cooperation between the countries, and i am therefore very pleased that we have approved this report by a large majority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the resolution prohibiting thrombin in foodstuffs, to be adopted today, is a mere knee-jerk in front of the boulevard. this is pure populism! we are not fulfilling our responsibility here if we no longer take scientific advice as our guide. what is it then? what is thrombin? thrombin is a naturally occurring enzyme. it's in the blood, and therefore in the flesh, anyway. we all have a lot of thrombin in us. if we have now banned it as a food additive, are we still allowed to exist, or do we have to dispose of it slowly as special waste? of course, we must protect consumers from being misled by a product that looks, is presented, as if it were something else. and we are doing this through labelling in the new food labelling regulation, which we will be voting on at first reading in june. we have a whole range of rules against misleading advertising, and we have additional labels for specific products. the commission has proposed exactly the same for the labelling of products in which thrombin has been used as an adhesive. i would point out that there are many similar enzymes which are not banned and which are still used.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very, very concerned about consumer protection and therefore i am also against any form of misleading and deceiving consumers. that is why i am also fighting for better labelling of food limits in the context of the food labelling regulation, for example, and i am calling on the european council to follow this opinion, which is also supported by the commission. today we had to vote on glue meat. glue meat is basically meat that's glued together and sold as a high-quality product. i think that this cannot be allowed to happen, especially if consumers do not know about it! i didn't make the decision today easily. the commission has proposed a comprehensive labelling obligation, but consumers can still be misled because thrombin is difficult to detect in a product. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the implementation of the directive. i have even now joined the resolution and voted for a ban on thrombin.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european citizens are right: they like honest food and they like honest politicians. i respect that public opinion. we cannot simply ignore public opinion, and we cannot simply dismiss it as populism. it's not that! we must also be aware of what our citizens are giving us along the way. and if our voters and our citizens think that real meat has to be real meat and not be meat that's been glued together from scraps, then we have to make sure that that's not possible. that is why i voted against the approval of thrombin as a food glue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the current debate on so-called 'small hams' shows that not all producers treat their consumers fairly. i am in favour of labelling all foodstuffs in such a way as to avoid misleading consumers. when this enzyme is used, it must also be clearly identifiable to the consumer. this is the basis for effective and fair consumer protection. our job is to ensure that the adult consumer has enough information to make a decision in his or her best interests. a final remark on the subject of skinny dipping: the discussion with the consumer, whether he wants it or not, is usually still pending. he must at least know what he is eating and taking in.
in writing. − the food additive thrombin must not mislead the consumer. regulation (ec) no 1333/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2008 established eu-wide conditions for food additives. new substances are now to be introduced. the main principle is the safety of the substances. to satisfy consumers' desire for good-looking food, the food industry has created substances that are mixed only for better appearance. one such substance is 'thrombin', which is derived from edible parts of animals and is safe for human health and its function is to join individual pieces of meat together to form a single meat product. if individual pieces of meat glued together give the impression of a piece of ham, this is not unhealthy, but it is unfair consumer deception. so these products cannot be banned for health reasons. however, such products must be clearly and unambiguously labelled. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. a piece of meat topped with thrombin must never be sold as ham but must be clearly labelled as 'meat of swine treated with thrombin'. i can only agree to the authorization of this substance if it is clearly labelled.
in writing. − i welcome the motion for a resolution on the review conference of the rome statute of the international criminal court (icc) in kampala, uganda, as it contains very crucial and important points and requests regarding the ratification and the implementation of the icc. therefore i voted in favour. but i want to express my deep concerns about certain phrases in the resolution, which refer positively to the ‘stockholm programme’, the ‘eidhr’ and to the european union as a ‘global player’. in this matter the ‘stockholm programme’ and the ‘eidhr’ might have had a positive impact but in many other areas these two programmes/instruments are not used in a democratic and transparent manner. the european union has indeed been acting as a ‘global player’ but, in my view, not at all in a positive way towards a more fair and solidary world order.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we are in the midst of the most fundamental crisis the european union has ever faced, but decisions on strategic direction are almost all taken at the level of governments. the european parliament is at best sitting at the cat's table. the whole debate in parliament today is centred around the specific issues of the 2020 strategy for jobs and growth, which gives the wrong impression that we are talking about the future and the direction of development for the european union. we may ask oral questions about the political relevance of the eu 2020 strategy in the current economic and financial crisis, but we cannot influence this eu 2020 strategy with our demands, change it, fill in deficits or perhaps even change the priorities. we're not involved in the strategic choices. instead, on almost every single point we have dealt with in this parliament in recent months, we have been involved in the power struggle between the institutions, which is mostly waged to the detriment of the european parliament, despite or perhaps because of the treaty of lisbon. both the eu 2020 strategy and, for example, the integrated guidelines for employment policy, on which the chair of the employment committee spoke earlier, see us as a parliament only in the role of informers and listeners. see also the sum of the individual reports presented here today is far from giving a complete picture of the european parliament's demands and positions on the european strategy. we would have to make a whole series of concrete changes. the european parliament has made specific demands to the council and the member states in the last parliamentary term on the fight against poverty, the introduction of minimum social security systems and the eu-wide minimum wage. none of that has been incorporated into the strategy. on the contrary, objectives such as the fight against poverty and the reduction of the poverty rate by 25% are in fact threatened with being dropped from the present text of the strategy, because they do not fit the destiny and interests of the member states and governments. the present employment balance sheet of the eu over the last decade alone has shown that atypical and precarious employment has risen to 60%. the rapid growth of atypical employment should, however, lead us, in the strategy and in the guidelines, to re-establish a guideline aimed at secure employment and poverty-free employment. that is a basic demand we are dealing with here! but as long as the european union, its institutions and its concrete policies do not send out signals to those who are marginalized, who live in poverty or who have no work, and also to young people who have no prospects for the future, we will not be able to win them over to a common european union as a viable project. this is a democratic deficit which the present eu 2020 strategy is only reinforcing, rather than combatting it together with the citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the financial markets - we have heard it - must be brought into a new regulatory framework in order to avoid the excesses that led to the crisis in the future. but if we look at the causes of the debt of the states, we find that we talk too much about the national debt in this parliament and too little about how we can achieve prosperity and growth. what is our growth dependent on? our growth and prosperity depend on people in the european union developing products and new ideas that can also be sold on world markets. it is therefore right that a chapter in the eu 2020 strategy is the innovation union. we need to focus on innovation, on how to boost r & d. it is very important that we exploit the synergies between research funding and regional development policy. there's a lot of things to do here. i would urge the liberals and the fdp to focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. we should see that we as the eu spend our funding in such a way that smes really get involved, that there is a transfer of technology between universities and colleges and smes. and we should encourage people to take charge of their own destiny through self-responsibility and self-initiative. the member states cannot create jobs, but jobs must be created in the economy.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not the only one to have a problem with the european parliament. i must say that you have recognised that the transition to a green economy must be started now, because climate change will threaten the eu's economic success. however, the europe 2020 strategy lacks the link between green change in the economy and a green employment strategy. there are studies showing that the energy transition alone could create 8 million new jobs. so we need a green jobs initiative in the europe 2020 strategy. this initiative must be reflected in concrete measures, in the integrated guidelines. so we need a stable legal and policy framework so that investors can really invest in green jobs. this includes linking research and development with business, promoting innovative clusters and also the opportunity to promote such clusters in disadvantaged regions. that is what the nistelrooy report says, and i support it. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but just as importantly, in the employment strategy we need to focus on how to make the transition to a green economy, how to engage workers and prepare them for the change. that is what i am addressing to commissioner andor. the guidelines for employment policy presented are in principle correct and balanced in their structure. it is particularly important that the issue of education is highlighted as a separate focus. this focus offers great opportunities to break the legacy of poverty and is a foundation for a green employment strategy and thus a key to the success of the europe 2020 strategy. but the guidelines also need to be improved. the employment guidelines have a key role to play in ensuring that we can really exploit the green job potential.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you, mr louis grech, for a really excellent report which you have presented to us and which we can use as a guide today. and i also appreciate that you have referred to a phrase that i have said time and again, which is that the economy is for people and not the other way around. and that is what the policy of the european union must look like! the report also rightly points out that a meaningful assessment of the social, consumer, environmental and economic impact of the internal market and the decisions we take in the internal market is of great importance. this is precisely what has been missing or not sufficiently made visible to the public. it is a very important approach to show the humanistic, holistic nature of the internal market policy. in your report you also say - and this is particularly important for us social democrats - that social policy is to be regarded as the core of the internal market policy and that the protection of services in the general economic interest is of particular importance. you also call for the development of a strategy to better communicate the social benefits of the internal market. if we look at just these few points, we would have achieved a great deal if the european commission followed suit. i also very much hope that the commission - and i am asking it very strongly for that reason, and mr barnier has already promised us this - will really take this report by mr grech as an opportunity to put the advancement of the citizens of the european union first. if we approach the internal market in this way, we will also find more acceptance for the policies of the european union and we will also be able to look to a better future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the current cohesion policy started under the heading of the lisbon strategy. but i am deeply convinced that cohesion policy can and will make a huge contribution to the 2020 strategy, not only because we have a considerable budget compared to other european policies, but above all because cohesion policy makes it possible for sustainable development to take place in the regions and that restructuring processes and also challenges in the regions can be well accompanied. but i would like to make one point clear here, and this is a central point for our group: cohesion policy can only work if economic development is equated in importance with social development, with support for workers in training, and then in principle can really claim a shared responsibility for the funds at our disposal. it's like hardware and software together, but it doesn't work on its own.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon strategy has not been a lasting success. why would you do that? member states, social partners and large sections of civil society have been too little involved and therefore do not feel partly responsible. the eu 2020 strategy may be different. it can succeed, commissioner, if it also deals with those who feel excluded, who often fall short, who often have no lobby. in the eu, less than two thirds of the working age population are in employment. only about half of all older workers have a job. 80 million europeans are under-qualified, with ever-decreasing opportunities on the labour markets - a prospect that cannot be accepted! a real strategy for the future requires a more social orientation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what does that mean, exactly? the social security systems in the member states need to be adapted to demographic change. the european exchange of best practice is a way of doing our part, of learning from and with each other. the european social fund one of your puppets needs to be adapted to the new challenges so that we can be even more effective on the ground. the european globalisation adjustment fund must be expanded to enable those threatened with unemployment to get back on their feet. our society must integrate, for example, young people through qualified education and training so that they can develop better professionally and personally. despite all the necessary consolidation of national budgets - which we are now experiencing and have discussed this morning - one thing must not be spared: investments in our citizens. economic, sustainable and social, these are the three pillars on which the eu 2020 strategy stands or falls.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i hope you're in regular contact with your chancellor, if you define it as i do. the eu 2020 strategy is really an opportunity to make europe more social, and we need it at a time when europe is being discussed with great hostility, when it has become very alienated from people. we must give the people something positive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this must be the main objective of the eu 2020 strategy. because europe needs social progress! i have already said this on monday in the committee on employment that we must not lose sight of the objective of full employment, but not full employment at any price, because we need good jobs. we always say we need jobs, but for me it's important that these jobs are good, that they have social security, that they don't have to be subsidized, that people can live off of it. the increasing precariousness of the world of work, the increasing income inequality and also the growing poverty this has already been addressed in many contributions today must be stopped with the eu 2020 strategy at last! we need a more active labour market policy covering many areas. the people are finally expecting more concrete answers, not the thousandth strategy, but very concrete answers!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe 2020 strategy if i'm honest, i'm not really in the mood to discuss this 2020 strategy at all. we have already adopted a strategy ten years ago, the lisbon strategy. if you look at what has come out of this now, ten years later, the results are - if i may be so bold as to describe them - understandable. i think we should not make the same mistake again, but we should focus for the moment on what really moves people at home in our member states. and the question is: can we ensure the stability of our currency? is there going to be inflation? what conclusions should we draw from the developments of the last two years, from the financial and economic crisis and now from the currency crisis? are we really taking responsibility for the financial market players who have contributed so much to the crisis? i would urge the commission to make the most of the fact that financial market regulation is being introduced quickly, that we are making progress in europe to prevent money from being sent around the world five times a day, as has happened in recent years, and that many people are making money by socializing losses in this process. i would ask the commission to call on the member states to exercise strict budgetary discipline and to implement the rules. and i would ask that the stability and growth pact be strengthened as soon as possible. that's what we should be focusing on. i ask the commission to take the necessary measures seriously, not by deciding alone or discussing them with the member states as in the past, but by finally taking parliament seriously as a legislator with equal rights to the 27 member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mrs niebler has already said a lot of things that are very troubling to me. i am very concerned about our common future in the union. i cannot simply go on to the agenda without first discussing the crisis. one of our great objectives, the euro with its high monetary stability, is threatened with a crisis all along the line. wealth and employment are not possible without a secure monetary value. and we are discussing europe 2020 when we do not even know what europe will look like in 2011! we are discussing thrombin-based meat glue, we are discussing driving times for self-employed drivers, as if the major problems of the union were going to be solved by themselves. we must send strong and rapid signals to regulate, organise and improve the deficits in both the public and the banking sectors. just two examples: we need clear definitions and harsh penalties for deficit offenders, such as exclusion from subsidies. we need clear rules for banks, such as banning cdss or requiring insurance companies to deposit them with the corresponding nominal values. and let me quote a famous german lord mayor who was for many years chairman of the town council: a person who does not spend money he does not have is not a saver!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to refer again to the report by mr ricardo cortés lastra, which i think is a very good report. in fact, cohesion policy is the best instrument to mobilise investment for growth and jobs. but i would like to emphasise once again the importance of cities, as they play a key role in achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. four out of five people in europe live in urban areas. cities are the engines of economic growth in europe. but at the same time, they feel many problems particularly clearly. keywords for this are, for example, social integration, the environment, transport, but also demographic change. the cities therefore have a special role to play in actually improving the living conditions of citizens. the european cities are also key actors in innovation, research and education and therefore play a fundamental role in the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the eu 2020 strategy. all this should be taken into account in the implementation of these strategies and also in the orientation of future cohesion policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to add to what mr seeber has already said. if we really want to achieve the goals of agenda 2020 successfully, we must first do our current homework. we need strong financial market regulation that actually controls and guides future behaviour in this area better. we must also do our homework here at home, in particular by ensuring that there is better control over how efficiently the funds from the structural funds are spent and in which direction development can be supported. we must also involve local and regional authorities more closely in the structures and planning, because they are the ones who must, in the end, carry out the tasks on the ground and clarify the tasks to be carried out in order to achieve the objectives we want to set out here in a correct and well-defined way. but setting goals without the status quo, without the homework, without analysing what is needed now, without really tackling it with vigour and consistency, makes little sense in my view. we have moved on to the agenda here - as mr ulmer has just said - and we are discussing the day-to-day demands made on parliament, food safety, etc., without really being clear about which problems are to be solved first. we'll have to start there. we must first of all concentrate on putting our financial situation in order, on making sure that everyone is also complying with these regulations, and on exercising in future more control, and more influence over what happens in the individual member states, over what parliament and above all the commission have been able to do in the past.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to extend a special greeting to the visitors to parliament, who are following the debate here more closely and in greater numbers than many of our colleagues, since it is one of the central issues for the next ten years in the european union. we are also conducting this debate in a much too technocratic way. i grew up in a state where social life was organized around long-term plans. this state, the gdr, no longer exists today. i have therefore always been somewhat sceptical of programmes which mix strategic approaches, desired objectives and planned economic indicators, which are spread over a long period of time and then left to others to implement. because whatever we decide in the europe 2020 strategy for the european union, it is up to the member states, governments and parliaments, regional and local authorities to implement it. the discomfort with such an approach is already clearly audible. europe cannot function from above. the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a union of the peoples of europe. the commission has too quickly left the lisbon strategy behind and has failed to analyse in depth the failure to achieve the objectives of this strategy. it is therefore no coincidence that the title 'eu 2020' has been used to summarise reports and requests in parliament today, all of which would have deserved a separate debate, but which at least support two aspects of european policy that have been successful so far: the design of the internal market, cohesion and structural policies. however, the eu 2020 strategy only refers to cohesion policy as a tool to help achieve the strategy's objectives. there is a contradiction! we do not need a planned economy in the european union, others have already failed. so before we confront the member states of the european union with a catalogue of planned economic indicators, none of which at present can say how they are to be achieved, in view of the uncertainties and turbulence in economic and financial policy at present and in recent years and the impact of the same on employment and the social situation in the member states, we need a detailed debate on what has made the european union successful, where a common achievement of objectives, for example in a pact with the regions in the eu, is possible and how we create more community without violating the principle of subsidiarity. this debate can and will then lead to a common strategy. this debate has just begun, as today's example shows, and we in the european parliament should be leading it.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say to my colleague, mr ehrenhäuser, that he should go to universities and look around, and see how creative this is, and that no student is dependent because he may have a scholarship that the economy has granted him. the same applies to mr repo and mrs vergiat. we should be guided by the fact that cooperation between education and industry must also take account of smes in particular. we must ensure that smes are better, faster and less bureaucratically considered in the framework of research programmes. that is important and is also stated in this report, mr ehrenhäuser. you should have read that, then you would have seen it's something new. we need to strengthen cooperation in this area between universities and smes. we need this cooperation at the local, national and international levels. when business and universities cooperate, we cannot assume that one can learn from the other, because one trains those who the other can eventually use for his company. we should therefore ensure that money from the economy can also flow to universities, while the public authorities have less and less money to provide additional funds, especially in these areas. i am grateful to every entrepreneur, to every small, medium and large business that puts money into education, because they are the next generation that will continue to drive economic growth. we need to support the universities. we must ensure that there is closer cooperation between public and private institutions and that there are also private innovation funds. that is why this report has just the right tenor. we also need people who are trained by people who know what it means to be an entrepreneur, who know what it means to be a manager. we need to make sure that the teachers are giving the learners the right tools. we should ensure that the business sector is encouraged to participate actively in the development of entrepreneurship education material. the indications given by mr repo and mr ehrenhäuser are not in accordance with the facts, and i would also like to avoid saying that the report is stupid and dull. no, he's good, you know. i thank mr pál schmitt, who is now president of the parliament in hungary.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to begin by thanking the commission and my colleagues on the environment committee and the committee on industry and energy for the exciting and interesting debates on nuclear waste disposal! we didn't always see eye to eye. we agree on one thing, namely that there should be joint european support for bulgaria to cope with the costs of the decommissioning of the four kozloduy reactors. i would like to emphasize once again that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. bulgaria received eur 340 million in 2006, eur 253 million in 2007-2008 and eur 89.5 million in 2009 and the total amount of the funds received by bulgaria is eur 89.5 million. in the vote tomorrow we shall decide on further solidarity contributions from the european union of eur 300 million. this solidarity is due to the fact that the bulgarian government, in the context of the negotiations for accession to the european union, has declared its willingness to close down these reactors as a result of the safety deficiencies of the kozloduy plants. i have now tried with my report, for the last tranche of this payment that we are now deciding - i assume that this is the last tranche - to achieve a change. i would like to encourage that the money which is no longer needed directly in kozloduy for decommissioning, i.e. for dismantling, and waste management, waste strategies for interim storage, i.e. about 120 million euros, be invested at least in part in the planning and preparation of the final disposal of highly radioactive waste in bulgaria or that they also start preparing a fund for this task, which has not been addressed in bulgaria so far. i have not succeeded in winning the majority in the committees for this idea. i still think this is an important matter. i have now tabled amendments to the compromises negotiated in committee for tomorrow's vote, in order to maintain two things. firstly, in connection with dismantling, disposal and final or even interim storage, i would like the commission to monitor very closely how much money it really costs to do what is happening in kozloduy, how much money we actually need to ensure that decommissioning and waste disposal and final storage are carried out carefully and in accordance with high safety standards. secondly, i want to ensure that the money we are sending to bulgaria now is not used for investment in coal or lignite. the report, as adopted by the committee, does not exclude that at present. i am glad that the report is the beginning of a political debate with commissioner oettinger, which i am sure will be lively, on the disposal of nuclear waste in general and which i hope will help us to move forward. the directive has been announced. i look forward to this directive!
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. in conclusion, i would like to point out once again that the closure of the nuclear power stations in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria was carried out in accordance with international expertise. the international atomic energy agency had examined these chernobyl-type reactors and found no way of achieving safety standards, as they generally existed in the old european union, by retrofitting them. this was a wise decision, which justifies our solidarity and our commitment to the costs of the closure in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, both of which will be covered immediately with tomorrow's decision. secondly, i would like to point out once again that so far none of these countries, nor any country in western europe or anywhere else in the world, has been able to demonstrate a responsible approach to the problem of disposing of highly radioactive waste. this is a task that we have to face, despite the fact that billions of dollars have been invested in this in many countries and despite the fact that for 30 years people have been trying to find a responsible way to do this. this is indeed a debate which those who are in favour of high-risk nuclear technology must deal with in particular, because nuclear waste disposal as it stands today - in my view and with the support of the majority of citizens in europe - is such a great, unresolved risk that it alone is against the continuation of the use of nuclear energy. but we will discuss this further with mr oettinger. thank you for your attention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you to include in the trilogue the request that the council should always meet on thursday mornings. we have had this in a number of council presidencies - i will not say which one now for the sake of modesty - even on thursday afternoon. i think the council should be here for most of the week.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have here in strasbourg, with president buzek and 20 000 people, commemorated the 60th anniversary of the robert schuman declaration on 9 may. in this context, i would point out that the south caucasus faces the alternative of either becoming something like the balkans before the first world war on a global scale or something like the montanunion after the second world war. and we are advocating the latter with the kirilov report. i agree with mr swoboda that if the three countries in the south caucasus cooperated more closely, the influence of the outside world, including russia, could be reduced. that is why it is in the interest of all three countries to find each other. i support armenia in its efforts to obtain recognition of the genocide by the ottomans. but armenia would have much more credibility if it finally withdrew its troops from azerbaijan. and we urgently need a peaceful solution for nagorno-karabakh and the occupied azerbaijani territories. we also need a clear stabilisation of georgia. because if georgia is dismembered, as some in moscow want, it will destabilize the whole region. the most important points are therefore: peace negotiations, the settlement of national conflicts and, above all, the return of displaced persons. we cannot allow expulsion to continue to be used as a political tool in the 21st century and to try to preserve expulsion! we must develop a much greater sensitivity and a much greater activity here.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr daul, at the beginning of his remarks, referred to the difficult situation in hungary. it is the case in many countries at the moment, and our fellow citizens in slovakia are also affected by this flood disaster. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. mr president, mr joseph daul and you yourself have described the situation at the conference of presidents and yesterday and this morning. i have nothing to add to the procedural procedure. i would like to say, however, and also on behalf of my colleagues cohn-bendit and bisky, that we did not agree to your proposal to postpone the vote this morning at the conference of presidents because we thought we should and could vote today. there was a desire to adopt such a resolution in this parliament at a wider level with a wider majority, as we had in february. what has happened in the last few days is not a procedural process but a substantive one. one thing is absolutely clear: we have seen that the content that was consensual in february has now diverged, and this is not surprising given the seriousness of the crisis. there are different recipes. there are the recipes that the others think are good - that is democratically legitimate - and the recipes - ours - that differ from what we think are better. we cannot exhaust ourselves in any consensus. now is the time to take a clear stand. they take clear positions, we take clear positions! we tried to bring this together, it didn't work, so now you should try to find a majority for one position or the other. if there is a majority in favour of postponing the vote, i want to say today that we, as the socialist group, will not close ourselves off to a renegotiation. but the basis for this will be the text which we have tabled together with our green colleagues. that is why i think, mr president, that we should vote today.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the deadline has actually expired, but if the house has no objections in view of the limited possibilities of transport this week, i would suggest that we hold a roll-call vote. does anyone have any objections? that's not the case. then i'll put it to a vote.
mr. hoang ngoc, your statement is noted.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased that the report on the completion of the internal market for consumers and citizens also mentions small and mediumsized enterprises. paragraph 46 also correctly describes access to capital as the main problem. that is correct, because it is still easier to provide a hedge fund with millions of euros than to provide a craftsman with a loan of 100,000 euros. i hope that our report will not only be a verbal windfall but will also inspire the commission to take concrete action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the early 1980s, as a young journalist, i wrote an article calling for a mediterranean community after visiting king hassan of morocco, whose application for membership in the eu had just been rejected. i have had the privilege of working here for otto von habsburg, who said that the mare nostrum never separated, but that it had to bring europeans and their neighbours together. in his biography of president sarkozy, jean-paul picaper wrote: 'the idea of the union of the mediterranean comes from the pan-european movement. why am i mentioning this? because i would like to say that this is not a french spleen, as some people say, and not a waste, as has just been said, but the most important foreign policy instrument of the european union after the eastern partnership! but that is precisely why we must do it right, we must structure it politically, and not just as a free trade area, because we know that the mediterranean, as churchill said - and i say this to my british colleagues - was the soft underbelly of europe, and it must not be that again!
in writing. − the parliament approved today 300 million euros to further assist the decommissioning of the kozloduy 1-4 nuclear reactors. i do support this as further assistance will be necessary to ensure the safe decommissioning of the reactors. parliament however rejected financing by these funds for polluting lignite power plants. also, the proposal to use part of the funds to help bulgaria find a solution for the final storage of nuclear waste was rejected. this led me to vote against the amended proposal. however, i abstained on the legislative resolution to allow for decommissioning funding by the eu.
in writing. - the rapporteur, our colleague mr cortés lastra, had originally presented a very balanced report on the relationship between cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy. this approach was intended to correct the approach of the first barroso commission to the extensive earmarking of cohesion policy. he rightly asked: is cohesion policy an instrument of the lisbon strategy or the new europe 2020 strategy, or does it have an independent meaning and value? the rapporteur had balanced the two. it was thanks to him that the autonomy of cohesion policy was given a voice again. we supported his approach. unfortunately, the amendments, which were mainly tabled by the epp, have weakened the report in its original intention. the greens/efa group very much regrets this. we therefore tabled the report back in the plenary as an alternative resolution, largely in its original form. unfortunately, he did not win a majority here. that was to be expected after the vote in committee. but we wanted to make it clear with this alternative resolution that there was a minority position in parliament which wanted to give the regions more rights for independent development than the earmarking model of the current structural funds period allows.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we must deal with pakistan, an important ally, critically but also very objectively and with great care. pakistan has an islamic character which we must respect. this country was founded by muslim british indians on the basis of their religious affiliation, just as india was founded on the basis of its hindu affiliation. both countries have had minorities from the beginning, and both have developed a great tradition of tolerance. and this must be strengthened, that is, respect for all religious minorities, not least christians! i think we can emphasize this. for who else but europe, a continent almost 100% christian, can speak for christians? we have a very specific obligation here, but at the same time we must make it clear that we naturally respect the leading role that pakistan has often played and can continue to play in the islamic world in a very constructive way.
i have to say, madam president, worldwide, about 75 to 80 percent of all religious persecuted people are christians. as the european parliament, we are particularly committed to the fight for human rights throughout the world. i believe that religious freedom is a central concept in our human rights policy. i therefore regret that in the european parliament a group of leftists and left-liberals often wishes to keep the fate of christians secret. i am also pleased that we are all going to be bringing forward a resolution today on the terrible situation in pakistan. of pakistan's 156 million inhabitants, 95% are muslim, about 3% are christian and about 2% are hindu. as a christian, i would therefore like to draw attention once again to the situation of pakistani christians, who are being severely persecuted. anyone who allows violence against christians must receive a response from the civilized world. we should therefore also introduce in future, in the development policy and economic cooperation of the eu, a criterion which deals with this issue and which, if necessary, allows sanctions.
i have to say, madam president, we must also take into account where each country comes from and whether the development of human and minority rights is going in the right direction. as head of the european union's election observation mission two years ago, i made some recommendations, and i'm actually glad that the country has taken the initiative to implement some of them, for example, the ratification of the international covenant on civil and political rights and now it seems that the ratification has been done, not just the signing , but also the anti-torture convention. it is good that we now have a minister who is taking up the cause of minorities ex officio and who is certainly also trying to overcome discrimination there, bit by bit. the ahmadis have been mentioned, among others. one of my recommendations is also to integrate them from their separate voters list into the main voters list next time. i believe that this would be a concrete contribution to ending discrimination against this minority.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the images of rage, violence and destruction in bangkok are clearly in our minds. and although the tense situation in the thai capital has become less visible today, the danger of further violent clashes is far from over. the violence that has taken place in the conflict between the so-called red shirts and the government, backed by the army, has already claimed more than 70 lives and injured nearly 2 000 people. the government has announced that it will investigate these deaths, and that must include the deaths of the last few days. in order to find a viable political solution to these protests and struggles, which are constantly brewing, it is imperative to reflect on the underlying causes. a section of the thai population is extremely disadvantaged and socially excluded. they criticise the unequal treatment and the lack of rights. they are fighting back against their comparatively low standard of living. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. these structural problems must be identified and solved if we are to achieve a lasting solution and not just an end to the violence. all parties to the conflict are called upon to engage constructively and seriously in a solution to the present grave crisis. the eu is also committed to the development of a common defence policy, which will be based on the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in the civil war-like street fighting that has raged since last week alone, 75 people have been killed and more than 1,800 injured. the leaders of the protesters have surrendered after a massive military operation. but the situation in bangkok continues to escalate. i received calls yesterday and today. so far, some parts of the capital have not been affected, that has changed. but the north-east is also threatened by chaos. the dramatic images must convey a message! it doesn't matter if people are in red shirts or black shirts, yellow shirts or green shirts. everything has meaning: stop the violence, do not let the situation escalate further! the epp's position is clear: there is no alternative to factual discussions. an independent committee must investigate all incidents. and we expressly welcome the plan to bring forward the parliamentary elections. the eu, commissioner, must play an active role and act as a mediator. we have the diplomatic means to break the spiral of violence and to initiate constructive dialogue. commissioner, let us have the courage to do so, because thailand is teetering on the edge.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. in 1990, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to the burmese human rights activist aung san suu kyi. in the years before and after, the critical human rights situation in burma was the subject of numerous parliamentary resolutions, as well as other international human rights bodies. although improvements have been made in some cases, the human rights situation in burma has been and is extremely poor. now the un special rapporteur on burma, on the basis of a very good and comprehensive report, has called for the establishment of an international commission of inquiry to be mandated to investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity. this demand should also be taken up and supported by the high representative for foreign affairs, baroness ashton, for example at the next united nations general assembly. with elections coming up in burma in late 2010, the government has now taken measures that deny many citizens the right to vote and stand for election. the european union has a duty to help the people of the world. that's a total of 400,000 people. we protest against this and demand that the high representative express this criticism unequivocally in her bilateral and multilateral talks. finally, given the complexity of the human rights situation in burma, it is all the more incomprehensible that the european union has cut financial support to refugees on the thai-burmese border. this is unacceptable and we call on the commission to withdraw this financial cut and to resume the crossborder aid for burmese refugees.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are still concerned about the situation in myanmar. as you know, the implementation of the road map is continuing with the preparatory work for the first elections organised by the government in twenty years. thirty-one political parties have so far come forward to participate in the elections. civil society has been active. aung san suu kyi's party, the national league for democracy, has withdrawn from the elections following pressure from the government. it is therefore dissolved. a new party, the national front for democracy, which could be eligible, is partly made up of former leaders of the national league for democracy, thus the former party of ms aung san suu kyi. the latter accepts the participation or non-participation of ethnic groups in the vote. a boycott by him, following a disagreement over the creation of "border guards" instead of ethnic armies, would take away the necessary credibility from the elections. this shows the fluctuating situation and i have doubts about the possibility of the european union being invited to observe the elections. we are still concerned about the human rights situation. the report by mr quintana, the un special rapporteur, is very clear. many political prisoners are still not released, despite calls from the international community. the basic rights, such as freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, are still not respected. socioeconomic conditions are difficult for most of the population, especially in areas inhabited by ethnic groups. how can we really help? the union's statements are proof of our critical spirit and our willingness to contribute to a solution. our approach includes development aid. in fact, the union is one of the largest donors. in addition, dialogue with the administration on sectoral policies and the millennium development goals is essential. our assistance is targeted not only at the areas affected by the 2008 cyclone, but also at the most vulnerable areas of the country, as well as at refugee camps along the burma-thailand border. in answer to your questions, i can assure you that the commission will continue to assist the uprooted communities to enable them to return to proper living conditions. the conditions for returning to their country do not exist. we must warn against institutionalising the camps and therefore the level of our aid will be determined by the needs on the ground. in addition, the commission is in contact with the thai authorities. it should be remembered that there are also assistance programmes for education, agriculture and food security; in addition, the echo programmes provide assistance in the areas of water and food security. there is also aid for the restoration of socioeconomic conditions in myanmar. each citizen receives an average of about $2.4 per person, compared with 36 in laos and 60 in cambodia. in conclusion, i can assure you that we will redouble our efforts to promote our values. the people of myanmar deserve to be assisted and to know that the union will not be indifferent to their future.
i have to say, madam president, you are a competent vice president, no doubt. you're also a very influential woman. i'm very pleased. you have not given some of your colleagues the opportunity to speak in the context of catch the eye, not because you did not want to, but because we are extremely short of time. the european parliament is the voice of human rights! we'll settle for one hour. and so many people have something to say and want to put pressure on the commission and want to get results out of it. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we need the ability to articulate. we must create pressure, but not under this strict time-dictation! it is not your responsibility, but i hope we can get you on our side so that we can finally change these rules of procedure.
i have to say, madam president, our colleagues have negotiated fantastically, they have agreed a very good resolution between the groups, but the text we have reached on paragraph 13 is confusing and confusing and really means nothing. we therefore propose a new wording, namely: is concerned about the possible misuse of the combating defamation of religion campaign at the un, stressing the council conclusions of 16 november 2009. so a more concise wording of the same fact, and we would ask that you agree to this new wording.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. all the countries of the european union are suffering from high levels of debt and the financial and economic crisis. but they also suffer from the fact that for years high budget deficits - sometimes excessive - have been accepted and tolerated in a large number of countries. when we come to the new 2011 budget, it is not enough to simply close down national budgets, but we must also carefully review our budget expenditure and also carefully review new expenditure. i would like to speak about the european external action service, whose structure and financing remain extremely unclear. there is no transparent structure - i also call for cost efficiency using synergies with national external services, there must be clear rules of responsibility, transparent accountability to the european parliament, and there should be no attempt in an increasing number of decisions to eliminate the european parliament's co-decision and oversight functions. the european parliament is cooperative and will stand by you even in difficult situations. that is why we must also involve the european parliament in these matters as a co-decision-maker. i also think it is necessary that we finally make the reduction of bureaucratic burdens a reality, for example in agriculture and also in small and mediumsized enterprises, which need to grow and innovate and survive. if we want to reduce budget deficits and taxes and increase tax revenues, we must reduce the burden of red tape on small and mediumsized enterprises and enable them to innovate, and finally reduce and not encourage the displacement of large industry by unwelcome small and mediumsized enterprises. i also share the view of the chairman of our committee on budgets that we must have precise data on this budget before we can finally adopt it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 june 2010. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr michael cashman on progress towards the millennium development goals: mid-term review in preparation for the un high-level meeting in september 2010 (2010/2037 (ini)) (a7-0165/2010).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank mr cashman in particular for the presentation of this report, which we in the committee on development adopted with great support, and i very much hope that we in parliament will be able to signal together, just before the council meeting, that we attach the utmost importance to the millennium development goals. we expect member states to be aware of their obligations in implementing the millennium development goals, in particular their own obligations to pay their own share of development aid. mr cashman has rightly said that the european union is running a deficit of minus 20 billion euros. what needs to be put forward is the very clear statement: we are fighting for the implementation of these millennium development goals by 2015, and we will not allow this number of years to be simply postponed, always on the grounds that ultimately, due to the impact of crises, we as nation states would no longer be able to do so and we would have the right to postpone anything at all. but the fact that over a billion people are living in poverty and hunger - 1.5 billion even in poverty - is proof that in recent years even in certain regions of the world, in sub-saharan africa, poverty has increased, which leaves no other option than to demand very clearly what we want here. i therefore ask my colleagues, especially those in the conservative group, not to water down the report any further with your proposals. the report is a balanced mix of real demands, requirements, the necessary pressure we have to generate, and we should not take anything back from it at any point. i would have gone even further in some places. i would also have specifically asked that we not sign and let live another treaty that does not serve the implementation of the millennium development goals. i think that this is the end of the matter: we need a coherent policy not only within development policy, but it must be important for the whole of eu policy to fight poverty and underdevelopment in practice.
madam president, the millennium development goals are sure not perfect, but what makes them great and different is that they demand measurable progress, and because they are measurable we can see that we are not on track currently and we need to reinforce our efforts. the eu institutions – and that includes us – can do a lot to reach the targets. for example, we can use the reform of the fisheries policy to support fisherwomen and fishermen in developing countries rather than industrialised fishing companies. we can use the cap reform to focus on sustainable agriculture and eliminate all direct and indirect export subsidies – and we can stop acta, for which the commission still has not delivered the proof that it will not hinder access to medicine and technology transfer. and we can finally recognise that you cannot achieve maternal health without women’s rights. all these example show that development policy is more than a small field. aspects of development policies can be found in all our committees, and we should be aware of that. without policy coherence – and that is not just any coherence, but it is policy coherence for development as it is stated in article 208 of the lisbon treaty – we will not get anywhere. and this we should also take into account when designing the external action service. finally, i would like to know from the commission what its plans are for the post-mdg commitments that we will also have to talk about at some point.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. achieving the mdgs by 2015 is crucially dependent on how much money rich developed countries commit to fighting hunger and poverty, reducing child and maternal mortality, and fighting malaria and aids. our conclusion is sobering: our promises are not kept. before the financial crisis, we in europe, as rich industrial countries, had pledged 50 billion dollars to the poorest countries for this year 2010. it will be much less, about 36 billion us dollars. the agreed phased plan, according to which the rich countries want to spend 0.7% of their gross national income on development aid, will also not be respected. there are good examples, but my country, germany, is not looking good. we should follow the example of other countries such as sweden, luxembourg, belgium, ireland, the united kingdom and also spain.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. we greens do not want to give priority to freight transport. we want the greatest possible flexibility to make efficient use of the existing capacity for all modes of transport on the railway. we want a one-stop shop for our customers. but now he is also to decide on the allocation of the track. for countries with a high railway network and mixed traffic, this is a disaster. i have not understood the wording until today. so i consulted with law graduates and economists. but they couldn't help me either. and we certainly do not agree with a contradictory wording. although the financial allocation has been almost tripled from eur 20 billion to eur 8 billion, the number of corridors is to be increased from six to nine. that is a flat denial of reality! the corridor 3 stockholm-malmö-copenhagen-hamburg-innsbruck-verona-naples-palermo, for example, has four problems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the cheaper, shorter and faster alternative is to connect copenhagen via rostock to nuremberg via the newly built alpine tunnel to naples. we want to change our transport policy to stop climate change. big projects that don't make sense, coupled with denial of reality, just eat up money. that is why we reject this report!
the commission has already done so. we are in complete agreement that we need the internal market also in rail freight. this is very important. on paper we have had this for a long time, but in reality, unfortunately, not yet. if there are still some differences, it is because we have different experiences in the various member states of the functioning or non-functioning of the railway network. i come from germany, where it would be bad if we had a freight operation before passenger traffic. this would have a serious impact on public transport local public transport . at the same time, we know very well that we need a system that is consistent across europe. we want that, we need that. the only question is how this will be implemented, with how many corridors, and then, of course, who will now set the rules for the one-stop-shop, who will then award the tracks. there are quite different opinions on this. some people think there's a parallel system that we could create if we had one one-stop shop per corridor and non-functioning national one-stop shops that might need to be included. that is the only disagreement we have, otherwise we all agree that we need this freight transport in europe.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to stress that it is of course a good thing that we are operating in a single market and that we are including rail transport and freight transport and promoting cooperation. i would just like to point out that we have different systems and different rail networks in the member states. this is always very difficult in densely populated areas. we do not have separate systems, so that in fact a one-stop shop does lead to a kind of priority for freight traffic, and even if we redesign routes, such a central centre will also have an impact on passenger traffic, and here too we will be able to establish a kind of priority, even if it is not explicitly stated here. we must ensure that we continue to have attractive passenger traffic in the densely populated regions.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to emphasize once again that the priority freight legislation, in terms of opening up the railway market and further liberalization, is a real step towards competition on the railways throughout europe. if we want to enforce this law of priority for goods, we must of course also remember that there are countries in europe such as germany which have to carry out the largest proportion of transit at all. it has already been pointed out by several speakers here that in germany we have just laid our corridors through the large conurbations. the commission has included the corridors for goods with priority in this. and the integrated system, which also has clock services for short-distance passenger transport, which also allows long-distance transport in germany to run at the same time, and also freight transport, must be coordinated in a special way. it is therefore necessary that the one-stop shop, if it is to work properly, can only work in excellent coordination with the national infrastructure manager.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in order to improve the crossborder prosecution of crime for the safety of citizens in the european union, security and law enforcement authorities are working more closely together. i refer to the european arrest warrant as an example. in return, however, fundamental rights of accused citizens have remained on the legislative track. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, and has been involved in the development of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the entry into force of the lisbon treaty now opens up new opportunities for the protection of citizens' fundamental procedural rights in criminal proceedings. the european parliament now has a co-decision power for the first time, and in the council only a qualified majority is needed. we liberals are known to be committed to the protection and further development of civil rights. we have therefore also worked to ensure that in future all eu citizens will have the right to an interpreter and translation when they are questioned by the police or in court as defendants in a member state whose language they do not speak. it is essential that not only law enforcement is better coordinated across borders, but also that citizens' rights in investigative and criminal proceedings such as the right to a fair trial are available to citizens at an adequate level across europe.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank you very much, commissioner, for your strong commitment to procedural rights and standards, which are leading us ever closer to a judicial internal market. i am very glad that we have finally succeeded, thanks also to my colleague elena antonescu, in keeping the trivial cases out of this area. it would have been nice to have set even higher standards for translators, because what is the point of a translation if you cannot guarantee the quality of the translators. i think that the implementation of three years is painful, but it is not at all detrimental to the people concerned, because they have the european convention on human rights and the whole judicial system must be changed. that's important in the legal profession, too. so i want to thank you for making this work. thank you very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am very pleased to welcome estonia as the 17th member of the euro area as of 1 january 2011. our baltic neighbour - as our predecessors have already said - is in fact one of the very few countries which meet the maastricht criteria, and with flying colours! in the current environment, we can be sure that the commission, eurostat and the ecb have been very careful and have not been dismissive in their assessment of the figures. the council will also decide without any political bonus. the euro is facing - as we all know - its greatest test and challenge today, 10 years after its introduction. it is a sign of immense commitment, of incredible will and of extraordinary effort that estonia has managed to actually meet the accession criteria in these circumstances. i think it also shows that it is willing to honour the contract. estonia knows that as a member of the european union it has an obligation to join the eurozone one day, and that it wants to do so so quickly is a source of satisfaction for me personally. it shows that there are still countries that actually have faith in this community work. fortunately, the estonian government did not have to put this decision to the vote of the people, because we certainly know that some citizens are very concerned. they see, if they follow the media, the euro as a soft currency, the eurozone as a transfer union, and they fear that the introduction of the euro will lead to large price increases. slovenia and germany are examples of this, and in germany the wordplay of the 'teuro', the expensive euro, is not without reason. so that all of this is just perceived inflation, as the ecb says, is certainly a bit of an understatement. as a member of the eurozone, estonia must also shoulder the problems of the common currency and thus become a member of the eurozone bailout. we do not know what effect this may have on the budget. i would ask the commission to clarify this point. i wish estonia continued good progress and hope that its performance, especially in terms of budgetary discipline and the fight against inflation, will continue to be sustainable.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to begin by thanking the colleagues who, together with me, have drawn up a very broad report on the commission's communications, for their willingness to compromise, for agreeing not to a minimum solution but to workable compromises. i would also like to thank commissioner barnier for making nails out of heads. we have had to carry mr mccreevy to the hunt. we are confident that you will be able to submit proposals for financial market regulation quickly, reliably and correctly and implement them together with us. i can only say that you are right not to wait for the last in line or the troublemakers in the council. you have parliament on your side in the matter of clear and fair regulation of the derivatives markets. we in the committee adopted the report by a large majority - 43 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention - and professional observers from other member states were surprised that such a consensual solution had been reached after the controversial discussion. all have sought to reach appropriate compromises, including on the two points which were controversial until recently: governance, the conditions for clearing bodies and, secondly, the wording on the third country regime, which we have long discussed with great vigour and controversy. the commission has already started a public consultation on two sub-themes - short selling and derivatives and market infrastructures - which have been available since this afternoon. i believe that we need tougher rules on regulation and that we should not, now that the first part of the financial crisis has been somewhat overcome and the second part of the financial crisis is about to begin, allow a huge market with 12 times the world's gross domestic product to remain unregulated. these are the otc derivatives, but these are other things, and each of us knows that this is only part of financial market regulation and not all of it. the financial market crisis and derivatives that are not traded on stock exchanges have undoubtedly exacerbated the crisis. the us accounting rules and the net settlement in the interbank market have hampered transparency and in particular the credit default swaps on government bonds have fallen into disrepute. in the case of greece, there is no evidence that the cdss caused the crisis either, but it is clear that the main cause is not speculators but the member states' debt problems. that is why the only way to solve the problem is to solve the debt problem. we have identified another problem from the experience of the past few years, namely that the market power of the six largest institutions is a problem. these six largest institutions - three of them european and three of them us - account for 80% of the derivatives market. it is the historical experience of 1992, when the british pound was speculative and when, under the name of soros, the british pound was prevented from joining the euro, and it is also the historical experience of individual activists who saw that at that time some central banks had to use up all their assets. the market needs rules, it needs to be strictly regulated, and the decisions of the economic and monetary committee cover a total of 48 items. the standardization of derivatives, transaction registers, the establishment of central counterparty clearing houses, the use of organized markets, the improvement of market integrity and market surveillance, the derivatives for corporate, end-user needs to have a special regulation, and we need the ownership rules already mentioned. i would like to conclude by assuring you, commissioner, of the full support of parliament, with a large majority. don't ride in the last car of the train, but in the first and you'll have us by your side.
i have to say, madam president, the importance of the internet -- and this is very much connected to the topic we had earlier -- has grown tremendously in the last 20 years. whole industries have emerged, business models depend on the uninterrupted use of the internet, and we are now connecting educational issues with it. we have a substitute for social encounters on this internet. but we also have a very different kind of private communication, and it now has an infrastructure that is similar to a public utility. so we need to have some sort of say in the evolution of the internet. however, we must always say: on the one hand, the freedom of the internet is of course also abused, but on the other hand, it is also a value in itself that we must preserve there, and we cannot allow online what is prohibited offline. but this self-regulation does not make it happen as one would wish. so freedom on the one hand and data protection and privacy on the other are not competing goals, but are part of a concept. i would therefore like to encourage the commission to take part in this debate and in the further development of the internet.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mrs edit bauer, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2002/15/ec on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities (com (2008) 0650 c6-0354/2008 2008/0195 cod). the commission is also proposing to extend the
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, today this house is discussing an extremely difficult and sensitive subject. the question is whether or not entrepreneurs who are self-employed drivers should be covered by the directive on the working time of mobile workers. the inclusion of entrepreneurs would be a precedent and a clear deviation from the general working time directive. this directive only regulates the working time of employed workers, not of entrepreneurs. discussions about the inclusion of self-employed drivers have been going on for a long time. firstly, consultations between social partners in the 1990s did not yield any result. then the legislator could not reach a conclusion after four years of discussion – between 1998 and 2002 – and therefore asked the commission for a thorough impact study. the commission has now carried out studies and made an impact assessment which clearly demonstrates that this directive is not the right tool to address transport policy issues such as road safety or competition conditions, but that enforcement in respect of the non-self-employed is a real issue. this is also the sense of the commission proposal. firstly i wish to express my deep respect for your rapporteur, mrs bauer, who has done an excellent job. i am very glad to see that the rapporteur shares the commission’s concern over the weak enforcement of the rules and the general problem of false self-employment, and i appreciate mrs bauer’s constructive proposals. i believe that the rapporteur’s proposed amendments have the potential to protect employees even better against possible exploitation by employers. where europe definitely needs action is in respect of so-called false self-employed drivers – that is, those drivers who are formally independent but in practice are employed by a single company which gives them orders and pays them. both the commission proposal and the amendments proposed by the rapporteur give a clear message to industry: the phenomenon of false self-employment will not be tolerated and the legislator will be vigilant in putting this rule into practice throughout europe. as regards road safety, let me stress that working time must not be mistaken for driving time. the situation regarding the latter has radically changed since 1998. as you know, this house, together with the council, adopted new driving time rules, introduced modern, reliable digital recording equipment and adopted a specific directive on enforcement. today’s debate is not on road safety. the statistics and the studies that the commission has made available to parliament give absolutely no indication that the inclusion of self-employed drivers would improve road safety. at a time when we hope to begin to recover from the economic crisis, it would not be a good move to impose an additional administrative and financial burden on small and fragile undertakings which have managed to survive the economic recession. instead of imposing red tape on entrepreneurs, europe needs a working time directive which will really ensure protection to those employed and dependent drivers who need that protection.
it was not a point of order. you're listed as a speaker later in the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. on behalf of the epp group, i would like to thank mrs bauer for her report and for the excellent work she has done in the past few months. the basic question is: should the working time of the selfemployed in the transport sector be regulated for the first time or not? the commission says no, almost all the member states say no, the majority of my group says no. if we were to include self-employed drivers in the directive, it would only be to the benefit of the large companies. but we must strengthen small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road users is not compromised. all drivers, both self-employed and employed, must comply with a minimum rest period of 11 hours within 24 hours. instead, there is the digital tachograph, which automatically records times, and the authorities monitor compliance. i was the european parliament's rapporteur on the tachograph at the time. i am grateful to mrs bauer for having prevented the extension of the regulation to vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. but we want to reduce bureaucracy, not build it up. i therefore recommend that the house should support the compromise reached by the rapporteur with the other groups.
i have to say, madam president, we've heard a lot of things. the fact is that, as mrs figueiredo said, this case concerns a directive intended for workers. that's right, you're right. but there are also self-employed people, and they are not employees. it is important that people in europe can decide how they want to work - that is fine - as an employee or as a self-employed person. of course, as a self-employed person, you also have to follow certain rules. in principle, digital tachographs are provided in all eligible trucks and similar vehicles. but it would be an undue restriction on the freedom of choice of the selfemployed if we now include it in the directive. that is why my group is in favour of excluding the selfemployed in this case. we think mrs bauer's proposal is right and so does the commission's proposal. that should be taken into account. we want to protect small and mediumsized enterprises, and we can do that by complying with the proposal in this case.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have been discussing the question of driving and working hours in road traffic for months. i wonder what arguments are being used to prove that what we have been discussing for months is all nonsense. the latest argument is that something has to change here before anything changes. do you not see, dear mrs bauer, how absurd this argument is, how it is riddled with lies and half-truths? the debate is about nothing more than the extension of the working hours of the selfemployed. the principle of working time legislation has been the protection of people against long working hours for 150 years. this applies to both selfemployed and employed persons. it does not matter whether the selfemployed person is overworking himself or whether the employer is overworking an employee driver. it is a question of protecting people from themselves and from working too long, in part from employers and contractors. secondly, in terms of road safety, it is claimed that nothing can happen. ladies and gentlemen, we are not in the hobby home builder market, and we are not amateur craftsmen! we cannot make laws with the motto: "let's see what happens". it is well known that long working hours increase the risk of accidents, especially in high-impact road traffic. thirdly, who will be responsible for the future control of such a differentiated system as you envisage on our roads? today, a land labour court judge cannot check whether someone is pseudo-independent or self-employed without extensive study of the files. stop this nonsense! it's about fair competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. don't play games with this house!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to give my colleague mrs morin-chartier the benefit of the doubt. we must not forget that we are in agreement with the ecj on this issue, which has clearly placed road safety at the forefront of this issue, and that this is an existing directive on working and resting times. we are not going to be able to do that. why would you do that? that would be absurd and unrealistic. if the selfemployed were to be excluded again, they could spend 28 hours loading and unloading, in addition to 56 hours driving. that means you're gonna be a rolling hazard on the streets! i do not want to meet such motorists on the roads of europe! we cannot be here all of a sudden advocating distortion of competition at the expense of our common health. that is not something that can be conveyed to the citizens. that is why i say to you: reject the commission's proposal!
i have to say, madam president, today, as i have done for many years, i am committed to road safety, to improving the working conditions of our professional drivers and to enhancing their professional image. it is quite clear that today we are not talking about the safety regulations on driving and rest periods which all selfemployed and professional drivers must respect, but about the regulation of working time. it is primarily a worker protection scheme, so it is only for the social protection of drivers and not for road safety. we don't have to protect the self-employed from themselves. the observance of working time cannot be checked without considerable bureaucratic effort in the case of selfemployed truck and bus drivers, nor is there any comprehensible reason for it to be checked at all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to work is guaranteed, and that the right to work is guaranteed. rather, member states should ensure that the pseudo-independence of drivers is combated. i am in favour of the proposal from the european commission and mrs bauer.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to appeal once again to my colleagues from the conservatives and liberals that this cannot be a question of putting the interests of the selfemployed ahead of the safety of the people of europe. the freedom to do business is certainly a great good, but the safety of our children and of all those who take part in road traffic is more important, and that is what i mean by a responsible europe. tomorrow, in the vote, you can show that you do not support social dumping. what this discussion has also shown in recent months is that it is too late to deal with the situation of pseudo-independence in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the commissioner said that today. we have a lot of declarations of intent on this subject. but we must also act.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 june 2010. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by renate sommer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on consumer information on foodstuffs (com (2008) 0040 c6-0052/2008 2008/0028 cod)). the commission is also proposing to extend the
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to extend the four minutes i have to speak to six minutes, because this dossier is so vast that otherwise there is not enough to say. consumers have a right to know what is in their food. only information on the composition and nutritional value of foodstuffs enables a targeted purchasing decision. it is true that there is a whole series of regulations and directives in community law on food labelling. however, there is no compulsory comprehensive labelling yet. for food producers and traders, the diversity of existing laws - whether eu or national - is now difficult to understand. there is legal uncertainty, distortions of competition and barriers to trade in the single market. the aim of this draft regulation is to eliminate all these shortcomings by introducing a uniform eu-wide food labelling system. the objectives are better consumer information, better legislation, harmonization and reduction of red tape. the commission's proposal fails to meet these requirements, however, because it is based on assumptions and assumptions about consumer wishes and needs, it makes unrealistic labelling requirements such as the 3 mm font size, which does not guarantee the readability of the information, it favours the large food companies and disadvantages smes, which in turn represent 80% of the food sector. he's in violation of the small business act. it also contradicts the objective of harmonization in the internal market by expressly allowing 27 additional national labelling systems. the commission's text therefore needs to be amended substantially. we tried that. the information must be legible. but font size is only one of many factors. we need rules on the type, the font, the contrast, etc. we need binding guidelines on readability. the information must be comparable, so we always need to refer to 100 grams and 100 millilitres and the nutritional value should not be given selectively per portion. this means that you can tell the 'slimmest' yogurt at a glance when you go shopping, regardless of the size of the yogurt cup. the information must be clear. we must finally get rid of the kilojoules that nobody can handle. we want to focus again on kilocalories, which is what the consumer is interested in and understands. portion sizes must be realistic and understandable to the consumer, and as uniform as possible in the eu. the information must not be misleading as to the contents of the products or their origin or their true nature. food restrictions such as analogue cheeses and minced meat, glued together from small pieces, should be marked as such on the front of the pack. the consumer must know what he is buying. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i propose that only the kilocalories per 100 grams or 100 millilitres be used as a nutritional value indicator. it's being read, it's being taken care of, and i think it's realistic. the deletion of the nutritional profiles is also correct. i hope we can hold them. these profiles are superfluous because the new regulation already identifies nutritional values. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. the real objective of the regulation on nutrition and health claims on foodstuffs is the truth of health claims, and this does not require the additional evaluation of each foodstuff, the classification into good and bad. after all, it is the whole diet and lifestyle that is decisive. we have to ask ourselves, why are the big food companies, of all people, lobbying so hard for nutritional profiles right now? that's a question that really should be asked. the so-called traffic light model proposed here has similar deficiencies to the nutritional profiles. it is equally wrong to divide products into good and bad. the thresholds of the colours are arbitrary, the ranges within the colour categories are too large. basic foods would be discriminated against, food limits would be preferred, and products with artificial ingredients would also be preferred, i.e. with sweetener instead of sugar, with flavour enhancers instead of salt. that cannot be in the interests of the consumer. the gda model, the industrial model for labelling, also has glaring shortcomings. it's incomprehensible because it contains too many numbers. it is misleading because it only describes the daily requirement of the 40-year-old woman, and there is no recommended daily requirement for sugar consumption at all, for example. smes have difficulty implementing the gda model. this would in turn give the big companies a competitive advantage. the gda must not be made compulsory for this reason too. and we need to protect the food industry. this is because it ensures the survival of regional specialities and the diversity of our food in the eu that we love so much. we therefore need a wide-ranging exemption from this regulation for non-prepacked products, because craft products are not covered by the standards. allergen information may still be given by these manufacturers, for example in sales talks. a few words on the origin marking: the question is whether the consumer really wants to know where all the ingredients in his food come from, or whether it is a more protectionist idea being promoted here. i would first like to know whether it is feasible and therefore i would ask for an impact assessment. in conclusion, food labelling can never be a textbook for good nutrition. we need information and education campaigns on balanced nutrition and a healthy lifestyle in the member states. it is not the task of the legislator to educate his sovereign, the citizen. it is a matter of helping him, but we cannot take away the responsibility of the citizen. and finally, i would like to thank all those involved, the shadow rapporteurs, even if some of them were not at all prepared to compromise, and all those who supported me, in particular my (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to mrs sommer for her hard and dedicated work. it has been subjected to some unfair criticism, and it has not deserved it. it also ignores the fact that we agree on many issues. we want to work together to improve food labelling. cheese is made from milk, and if there are other substances in it, it must be marked on the front of the package as imitation. we also want a binding nutritional label. it's not available yet. we all do. we also want it to be a common unit that the consumer can understand. i would like to tell you a little joke that is being told in germany - and perhaps in some other countries - about the little animals that sew clothes tighter when they are in the closet. the hot calories. no one in all of europe would tell that joke with kilojoules. the kilojoule unit has not been adopted, it is confusing, and that is why we do not need to prescribe it. calories are the unit of measurement used by educated consumers. so there is a lot of agreement. there are also differences, for example, in the nutritional profiles. our group wants to see it deleted or at least clarified that basic foodstuffs are excluded. we have a lot of trouble in the discussions about salt in bread, about french cheese and similar things. i thank commissioner dalli and president barroso for trying to clarify this. but there is no decision by the college, and that is why we need to have clarity once and for all. i would ask for support for the epp amendments in this area!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the positive news today is that the new legislation will give us a uniform mandatory nutrition label per 100 grams, thus ensuring greater comparability. the nutrition information is intended to inform the consumer and enable him to make a well-informed purchase decision. my motto is the mature consumer who knows what he is buying. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by imitations. cheese imitation, jelly ham, vanilla yogurt, which is not vanilla at all, these are just examples. all such imitations shall be marked accordingly. i am glad that we are sending a clear signal to the council here tomorrow and that we are all in agreement here that we need better labelling. i'm here for information, not for custody. that is why i am against the traffic light marking. there is no such thing as unhealthy food, only unhealthy, unbalanced diet. the light is misleading. i am in favour of nutrition labelling using the gda model and i am glad that we are likely to vote in this direction tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we're talking about information today, and information is distributed around the world at the touch of a button. we are not suffering from a lack of information, but rather from a lack of clear, concise and accurate information. one thing is certain: a food label cannot be a textbook on healthy eating. knowledge about our diet must be taught in the family, in school and in society. basic knowledge is necessary for everyone to be able to apply the information on a food label to their own healthy diet. gda, nutritional profiles and health claims are not necessary statements for a label. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not left in the lurch by the fact that he is not able to use the lights. a regional designation of origin is no longer appropriate in this day and age. our eifel dairy collects milk in germany, belgium and luxembourg. then where does the cheese come from? clearly, action must be taken to prevent consumers from being misled. what's inside must be written on it, unmistakably! a cheese substitute must be clearly identifiable and identified as such. and a food additive, a piece of meat put together, cannot be sold as ham. i ask for support for the rapporteur's proposals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you a question, in all modesty, because you have a number of highly paid colleagues up there who are certainly in a position to help you answer the following question: on the screen at my place, the name tőkés appears. then there are three buttons in my machine that are pressed for name-based voting. the first button means 'yes', the middle button means 'no', and the third button means 'no'. is that right? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) does this mean that those who want to vote for mr tőkés will press the 'yes' button, those who do not want to vote for him will press the 'no' button and those who want to abstain, like my group, will press the 'abstain' button? is that good? (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let's take this whole procedure a little easier. normally, the vice-presidents of this house are elected on a list at the beginning of the legislative term or in the middle of the legislative term. if we do that, ladies and gentlemen, we will only know how many votes a colleague has received, and then we will know the order of the members of the bureau. now, today, because a colleague has dropped out, we're voting for a vice president, so again, the only thing that matters is whether he got the number of yes votes needed to be elected. anything else is not crucial. it's different from other elections. (applause from the centre) the president of parliament has described the secret ballot perfectly, and it worked wonderfully for me too, without my having to press different buttons. i pressed the button i wanted to press, and the blue light appeared. i think we can all try again together, mr president. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to let you know that my voting machine is not working. i was unable to attend the last three votes. if you could send a technician, thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was not able to vote no during the vote, but the machine only showed something when i pressed the 'yes' button and then the 'abstain' button. i would ask you to check again how the machine recorded and counted the votes here, because i do not think that was consistent. it wasn't just me, it was a lot of people. they could not press the abstention button or the no button, but it had to be voted yes first. so i have to say, this voting process is rather adventurous. i therefore ask that the way in which the votes were counted be checked again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. our plenary sessions are public and we have created a very bad impression here. i would like to join in, not to plead for an e-mail, but i would actually like to see it publicly presented and explained again on the parliament's website, because at least one statement is wrong: 168 cannot have been the threshold, but if 621 votes were cast, the threshold could only have been 310, if i understand this correctly. so i ask you to explain this in writing on the website so that every citizen can understand it. given the large number of spectators that were here, we really gave an extremely bad image in public.
in writing. − on behalf of the s&d group, i want to express our general consent to this report. it is important that the european parliament fights for greater transparency in regional policy, but we reject the so-called "naming and shaming", as asked for in point 16 of this report. we certainly agree to a tougher line on communication and information requirements, but the goal of more transparency - which we also support - should not be achieved by the wrong means. we are afraid of having a "witch-hunt" when naming and shaming is carried out. the european commission should not be made a moral authority which achieves group discipline by naming, shaming or blaming. we also reject this approach as it could lead to a more complex situation and non-implementation in the member states. despite this concern, we agree – as stated above – with the general ideas of the report and think it is very helpful.
in writing. - i have just voted against the proposal in the marinescu report to set up a 'one-stop shop' and thus a central coordinating body for the regulation of freight transport. another 162 colleagues have also taken the same decision following a petition i co-initiated. we are in favour of quality and competitiveness in rail freight transport. we want flexible and effective solutions and we are also in favour of strengthening rail transport for environmental reasons. in no case shall the movement of persons be affected, whether short or long distance. this unambiguous commitment is not reflected in the highly complicated technical text. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. this leads to a fragmentation of competences with significant implications for timetable design. in germany, a classic transit country, rail networks are already reaching their capacity limits. all three corridors are planned to pass through important centres. in hesse, the cities of fulda and frankfurt are concerned when it comes to the route from stockholm to palermo. the reputation of the european parliament as the most important consumer protection body in europe has been damaged today. the member states will lose the right to decide on their own railway networks. the expected train delays will be felt by all citizens.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the one-stop-shop strategy is an expropriation measure for deutsche bahn, which is the only competitor on a liberalised german network, and an irrecoverable competitive disadvantage, since germany has a mixed passenger and freight transport system and no separate high-speed networks. i strongly advise the railroad to consider legal action against this decision.
in writing. − the fight against child abuse and child pornography is of paramount importance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat child pornography on the internet. the lasting and effective fight against child abuse is both a political responsibility and a legal imperative. the fdp in the european parliament is of the opinion that it is necessary to delete such criminal offers as soon as possible.
in writing. − the fight against child abuse and child pornography is of paramount importance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat child pornography on the internet. the lasting and effective fight against child abuse is both a political responsibility and a legal imperative. the fdp in the european parliament is of the opinion that it is necessary to delete such criminal offers as soon as possible.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the commission adopted the new swift agreement at its meeting today, and it was adopted by a large majority or even unanimously. i would like to ask the president of the commission - because he is certainly aware that citizens have a lot of concerns when we share data - where he sees the main progress and how we can convince the citizens of the need for this agreement.
president of the commission. − it is true that the revised draft agreement was today adopted unanimously by the commission. we believe it is subject to strict compliance with safeguards on privacy and the protection of personal data. it ensures the principle of necessity and proportionality and its purpose is strictly limited to the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of terrorism and terrorist financing. the agreement, as it stands now, respects fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised in particular by the charter of fundamental rights. the agreement secures significant safeguards for the data when processed by the provider. it provides also for transparency of the use of data and the availability of a process for seeking judicial redress. the commission therefore considers that this draft is compatible with respect for fundamental rights and will give appropriate answers to parliament concerns, as expressed when the resolution on the interim fifth agreement was voted in march 2010.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not just a quick question, please. first of all, the substance of the agreement you have presented. i would like to ask again: what is the significance of this agreement in transatlantic relations? how important is it for the other issues we have to discuss with the americans? if you could give us an estimate, i'd be very grateful.
president of the commission. − it is extremely important, in fact. i can tell you that our american partners consider this to be probably one of the first priorities, if not the first priority, in the current discussions with the european union. this agreement is crucial for european union relations with the us. since 1 january 2010, significant volumes of data which were previously received by the us administration have not been available, and this is creating problems in their programme. that is why we believe we should also solve this, bearing in mind the importance of transatlantic relations. of course, these transatlantic relations are critically important, but this does not mean that we should not stick to our principles of privacy and data protection. at the same time i think we have reached a very, very good agreement now and commissioner malmström has done very important work. so i also believe that from a broader political point of view it is important that we come to an agreement on this matter with our american partners.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, mr president of the commission! following the questions from my colleague manfred weber, commissioner malmström informed the college that there are serious concerns about the current state of negotiations in this house. is the commission aware that what it has decided today is certainly not what parliament considers to be sufficient progress? are you aware, mr president, that you have today accepted something which, if implemented in this way, will result in employees of a private company, such as swift, having more control rights than officials of the european union? has mrs malmström explained these things to you? if so, how could you decide to do so? if not, why did mrs malmström not inform you of this?
president of the commission. – of course, the college was permanently informed by the commissioner responsible about the negotiation process. just today commissioner malmström informed us about the final outcome of those negotiations. more than that, she told us that she has maintained a very intensive dialogue with many of you in the european parliament. we are well aware of the concerns expressed by this parliament and she told me that she has kept parliament regularly informed in terms of the negotiation process. the commission has fulfilled its role in negotiating; it is now up to parliament to accept or not to accept the deal. i strongly recommend you do because it is important for the security of european citizens as well. we believe that we have achieved the necessary level of protection in terms of fundamental rights and data protection, but of course this is a very sensitive matter. we believe that the rights of this parliament have been fully taken on board but we had to negotiate on behalf of the european union and, as i told you, today’s decision of the commission was taken unanimously.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr president, thank you for the kind descriptions of your debate. that's not the answer to my question. i shall therefore try to be more precise, and i ask you to be very precise. did mrs malmström tell you during the debate in the commission before the decision was taken by the college that the text you are now presenting as an agreement runs the risk of parliament voting no? or did mrs malmström say to you: 'with this text we will have a parliamentary majority'? i repeat very specifically: did mrs malmström say: 'with this text we will have a parliamentary majority' or did she say: 'with this text the parliamentary majority is not certain'? i'd appreciate it if you'd be more specific.
president of the commission. − commissioner malmström cannot prejudge what parliament’s vote will be. she is perfectly aware of that. your question was if mrs malmström had told me or the college about what the vote or the reaction of parliament would be: if it was going to vote ‘yes’ or ‘no’. of course, she hopes it will be in favour. if not, she would not have completed the negotiations on behalf of the commission. after parliament’s ‘no’ vote some months ago, we had a very important discussion in the commission. i also spoke with commissioner malmström several times. we are aware, and she personally is very well aware because she has invested a lot of time in contacts with parliament, about some questions that may be raised regarding this agreement, but we are not anticipating now how parliament will vote. i can tell you this now. she could not tell me, but she told me that she is still in consultation with parliament. there is not yet an agreement when a vote will take place on that proposed agreement. this is what i can tell you, to the best of my knowledge, about the information that the commissioner responsible gave to me and to the college.
president of the commission. - mr president, mr verhofstadt, of course, as far as the powers already given to the union are concerned, the commission is the economic government of europe. it is the only answer compatible with the treaty. the commission is responsible for a very important part of the budgetary powers in the field of trade, competition and i think that this is something that sometimes needs to be reminded of by some of our governments who have not read the treaties sufficiently. however, the commission cannot do this alone. we must work with the council, which has very important powers, and also with the european council, which gives the general direction and the general impetus to the work of the union. and i also agree with your first statement. in fact, we have the answer for the euro area and for the whole of the european union. just read article 136. article 136 of the lisbon treaty now opens up much wider possibilities for us to have proposals for the euro area, because it does have a specificity in the euro area; more duties also mean more rights for those who have the same currency, but also for the union as a whole. so i hope that we will strengthen the economic governance of the european union, but always in accordance with the spirit of the treaty and the community method.
president of the commission. - mr president, mr verhofstadt, you yourself have been a member of the european council, you know the european council well. the european council is a very important institution, but it cannot micro-manage economic policy. that would be a fundamental mistake. not only would that be against the spirit of the treaties, but it would be a fundamental mistake. the european council, of course, gives the direction, the impetus - that is article 16 of the treaty - but then it is up to the various institutions, the commission, in its respective powers, but also the council, in its various formations, to check the implementation of policies. i would like to say that the commission is determined to play its full role in monitoring the whole process of the 2020 strategy. we now expect our member states to support this strategy. i am encouraged by the discussions that have taken place so far. i also expect the support of the european parliament, i am very encouraged by the positions taken by this parliament and i can tell you that the commission is ready to play its full part. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking you very sincerely for the very clear position taken by the four main political groups in this parliament at the press conference in defence of the community method and respect for the spirit of the lisbon treaty.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president of the commission! change of subject: gulf of mexico. deep water horizon, i think, is a term that is currently confronting people around the world once again with the idea of the limits of growth, the limits of wasteful use of oil, and the limits of man and technology. i would like to know, mr barroso, what the commission thinks about the fact that, where the european union is competent, it is proactively banning the planned oil and gas exploration in the northern north sea and the arctic. that is a matter that can be decided now. secondly, i would like to know whether you really believe that the regulations we have in the european union on oil and gas extraction will protect us from the recurrence of such disasters where we are responsible.
president of the commission. − we do not know yet the reasons for the accident in the us as the investigation is still under way. it is important to know whether the causes were mainly of a technical nature or linked to shortcomings in the regulatory framework or in compliance by industry. therefore it is too early to provide evidence of what might or could happen in europe. while oil exploration in europe is not taking place in the same extreme conditions as those in the gulf of mexico, we must also deal with the possibility of an accident near our shores. drilling techniques have similarities, even if the waters are much shallower in the north sea. the commission is following developments closely. commissioner oettinger had already convened a meeting in may with major oil companies active in eu waters in order to get a precise picture of the situation in europe and to obtain assurances from the industry on the current levels of safety. the commission works with the member states to ensure robust prevention and emergency response systems in order to protect european citizens and the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would ask you to say again whether you think the environmental liability directive for offshore oil and gas production is sufficient. i would like to know whether you think that a non-uniform and relatively low liability ceiling is really what we need in the face of the gulf disaster. and i'd like to know if you're discussing the need to improve technical controls on platforms. do you really think that the environmental and climatic conditions in the arctic are conducive to human and technical development, so that such risks of undersea oil production can be taken there too? it's not as deep as the gulf of mexico, but the conditions are tough.
president of the commission. − yes, you are right. firstly, we have legislation. we have binding new standards and requirements applicable to offshore drilling and oil production facilities as regards equipment standards, worker safety, environmental sustainability, emergency prevention and preparedness. in addition, the member states have enacted extensive national legislation to maintain a high level of safety of offshore operations in europe. secondly, we have an information response system ready to fight disasters caused by oil spills from tankers or drilling and production facilities. this system includes a set of tools managed by the european maritime agency, focusing on prevention of pollution and response to pollution. thirdly, there is a community civil protection mechanism that can give a response to any major crisis situation. regarding the concrete point you made on liability, most european legislation on safety and the environment does not target particular industries, but we can see that this legislation is applicable to all relevant economic sectors. eu legislation sets minimum safety standards which individual member states must strive to meet through their legislation. this is line with the principle of subsidiarity.
president of the commission. − it is probably too soon to draw all the lessons because we have not yet completed the process. i am very much looking forward to the completion of the process in good harmony with the european parliament because we cannot deliver without your support. that is, frankly, important. there are two basic issues here. one is one about security with respect to fundamental rights and data protection. we are attached to this and we believe that this agreement, as it stands now, responds to the concerns expressed by parliament after its first vote. there is also another more general point that you, mr kirkhope, highlighted, and i thank you for that. that is the importance of relations with the united states of america. the usa is one of our most important partners, if not the most important, so i believe that we should also try politically to come to an agreement. vice president biden came here and made a very, let us say, passionate case for the importance of transatlantic relations, also in this field. the commission will not recommend the vote if we are not convinced that it is for the benefit of european citizens. i want to underline that point. it is for our security as well. at the same time, we would like to have it also as a signal of our commitment to what is a very important relationship with our most important partner.
president of the commission. − i think this is an important point. in fact, during our conversation with the americans, they told us that they are ready to support us if we want to establish a similar system at european level. that is a decision that we have to take here in europe. what we are accepting by this agreement is to provide some data, subject to strict conditions, to the american authorities, but we could also think about what we could do better among ourselves. the americans told us they were ready to help us technically because they have more investment in that area than we have. i think that could be something for the future because i believe that we must all contribute to the fight against terrorism. it would be a great mistake to think that the fight against terrorism is an american responsibility and that we are just them supporting them. it is a joint responsibility to fight against terrorism and to protect the security of all our citizens.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the european parliament has today adopted the report by mr cashman on the implementation of the millennium development goals. one of our main messages to the commission, to you, is that we want to do everything possible to ensure that all the eu's resources are pooled to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015. but the eu and its member states have so far failed to meet their commitments. there is currently a deficit of eur 20 billion in commitments to the millennium development goals alone. i would therefore like to know what you will do - also with a view to the forthcoming council meeting - to remind the member states in particular of their obligations and to put pressure on the eu to present a clear and united picture at the un conference in september and not to allow individual member states to continue to deviate from their obligations in the face of the growing crisis, whereas 1 billion people are now living in poverty and starving.
president of the commission. − mr president, i fully agree with the concern that your question raises. in fact there is now a risk that, because of the budgetary constraints in some member states, some commitments are not respected. the commission had a meeting some days ago in addis ababa with the african union commission, and one of the points raised by our partners in africa was that sometimes they feel that commitments are not respected. so it is question of credibility and accountability, also on our side. so, certainly, the commission will defend the fact that we should keep our commitments. for instance, the commitments taken in terms of fast-start financing for the fight against climate change. i intend to go to the high-level event in new york. just today i received a letter from secretary-general ban ki-moon highlighting the importance of this agenda, and we fully share his concerns. i will raise the issue not only in the european council this week, but also in the g20 and g8 outreach meetings the week afterwards in canada. so, we remain very much committed to this. i participated in the gleneagles g8 summit several years ago and, in fact, the reality is that the most developed countries have not yet fulfilled all that they committed to do.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i have no doubt that the commission has in recent years repeatedly taken initiatives of its own to tackle precisely these development policy issues. i think the question is more what is being done within the commission to create the structures, the resources and the conditions for, for example, the implementation of the 12-point plan proposed by the commission, and in particular by commissioner piebalgs. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the commission's proposal to make the european parliament more involved in the implementation of the single act. and why, for example, do such important tasks as the fight to achieve the millennium development goals not play a role in the europe 2020 strategy?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not mr barnier, thank you very much for using the german language. first of all, i would say that the crises we have just seen again highlight some of the central problems. i would like to emphasize a few points in addition to what has already been said. one is that credit rating agencies have often turned out to be rating agencies, that is, agencies that cannot assess risk any better than anyone else. it follows that the weight of the judgments of these rating agencies must be significantly reduced compared to other judgments on the market. the second key problem that has emerged is the oligopolisation of this market. there are only a few reputable suppliers. it follows that it makes sense to expand the number of providers and their backgrounds. in this respect, mr barnier, your remarks, which have been echoed by others, about bringing more players into the market make sense. thirdly, we have the central problem of incentives, and this has been given too little attention in this debate so far. what do we have in the rating agencies? in fact, it's a situation where the person who grades is chosen by his students from a small number of providers and is paid to do so. it's like when students at a university can pick their professors before their exams and negotiate their pay with them, and then you're surprised when the grades consistently fall too high. this is the situation of the incentive problem that we should be watching. i know that the commission is also considering how to ensure that those who issue a financial product can no longer choose the rating agency, so to speak. we are now entering the heart of the reforms that are needed, at least in areas other than government bonds, where it is more about private providers being rated. we should dismantle this false incentive system. we should ensure that a private oligopoly is not replaced by a public monopoly, as some on the left have suggested, but that a public agency ensures that different actors are selected to produce ratings and that the quality of the ratings is published and systematically checked. mr barnier, i look forward to your suggestions. i hope that these proposals will lead to a systematic solution of the problems which remain in this area after the grateful efforts of mr gauzès and the commission before him and of the council, without creating a new monopoly, but by addressing and tackling the incentive and regulatory problems in this area in a consistent manner.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would just like to remind you that greece was downgraded again last night by the moody's rating agency. we all know that the greek government has put enormous pressure on its own people in recent weeks to get the crisis under control. we all know that within the european union a package of 750 billion euros has been put together to help the countries that have fallen into crisis and to get them out of it. greece has been downgraded. the same thing happened to spain. spain has been downgraded following the introduction of austerity packages. mr barnier, you just used the image of the fever thermometer and said that you can't break it. but here we have to ask whether the temperature thermometer is really suitable as an image for the rating agencies. obviously, it helps the clients, the patient in question, not to get better - they can't get better anyway. it's not a drug, but obviously this fever thermometer is helping to make the patients in a much worse situation. it is not possible that countries which are making these efforts are, despite all this, being further downgraded. so the question is, what do these rating agencies do? it has just been said that they have not been able to see in advance where crises are coming from. so there was no contribution from the rating agencies to the crisis forecast, to the crisis diagnosis. lehman brothers was rated very highly again just before it collapsed. so with this methodology that they're working with, you couldn't see and you didn't want what was coming at us. in this respect, it is a complete failure of this instrument. they have not helped to resolve the crisis. i just quoted it: the crisis situation, the rating has not been improved by the efforts, but people are worried it is said in the media that you can not pack the packages you have laced. then it's pushed down further, further down. i would like to make one final point: states and companies are not comparable. you have to look at the ratings again. it is not enough to simply work a little at the make-up level, but it is necessary to change the fundamentals of the rating system.
the commission has already done so. the credit rating agencies have played a huge role in the global financial crisis and also in the turbulence of the euro, and they have not exactly been glamorous. intransparency, conflicts of interest, funding by clients and the issuing of assessments at questionable times with procyclical effects or when the child had already fallen into the well speak for themselves. and the rating agencies are blind to these problems. i personally suggested that the eu should act now, and i am glad that you agree. we should create a european rating agency based on a foundation model. this foundation model, of course, has to be financially independent. it must not be subject to any political influence, either from the ecb or the commission or from any member state. as an independent foundation, this european agency can compete with the oligopoly - or rather, the monopoly - of the three rating agencies with which we are now dealing. it should be that every product offered in europe and every issuer operating in europe should be forced to propose two ratings, and one of them has to come from this european agency. to be independent, she must also be financially independent. that means that we need start-up funding, which could come from the european investment bank or perhaps even from the commission, and then this european foundation has to finance itself. the question of whether it is by the client or by the user remains to be determined. this has been mentioned earlier by mr giegold. we must find a solution here too. in general, we should also consider whether we can limit the use of credit rating agencies. i think we're doing a little too much good right now.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. if i speak for more than four minutes, i will be shorter in my closing remarks, so that i do not speak for more than six minutes altogether. the securities prospectus directive was originally drawn up in 2003 and was already subject to a review in september 2009. that's what happened with this. the purpose of the prospectus directive is to establish, approve and publish prospectuses as a prerequisite for the offer of securities to the public or their admission to trading on a regulated market within the european union. the current revision is mainly technical in nature and is designed to remove legal uncertainties and unjustifiably high standards. i would like to begin by thanking all the colleagues who have worked here and also all the shadow rapporteurs. it was a very good cooperation, including with the commission. and without that good cooperation it would not have been possible to bring this package to a successful conclusion in less than ten months of first reading. i should like to briefly present the agreement we reached during the trilogue talks, in the form of the eight main points on which we were able to agree. first of all, one of the objectives was to make it easier for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular to access capital on the market. you know that in america a much higher percentage of smes also finance themselves through the market, whereas in europe it is common for small businesses in particular to finance themselves mainly through bank loans. we want to open up the market to smaller companies as well, so that they can make more use of it than they have in the past. that is why we have raised the threshold for exemption from the obligation to publish a prospectus, which is burdensome and costly for small and mediumsized enterprises, from eur 2.5 million to eur 5 million. the second point concerns investor protection: we want to ensure that this facilitation does not result in the small private investor not being adequately protected. the threshold for exemption from the obligation to publish a prospectus for securities has therefore been raised from 50 000 to 100 000. the third theme was how employees can participate in the share capital of a company without the company having to meet the somewhat costly requirement of a prospectus. so a relaxation of the obligation to provide a prospectus when offering employee participation schemes. we have introduced a proportionality clause here, we have removed unnecessary disclosure requirements. but at the same time, we've made sure that there's a baseline information document so that the employees who benefit from this employee engagement know, roughly, what they're getting. at the same time, we have ensured that companies listed in a third country outside the european union are also exempt from a prospectus requirement as are european companies when offering shares to their employees, if they can demonstrate equivalence in the disclosure requirements. the fourth area we discussed and agreed on concerns the so-called summary of the prospectus. you have to think of it this way: a prospectus is usually a very thick, voluminous document, often comprising several hundred pages. there is a summary, but it is often 50, 60 or 70 pages long. we wanted to reduce this to what is called key investor information, or a document containing the essential information for the investor, as we have in the case of the classic investment funds, the ucits. the commission had not actually thought of this, but only wanted to make sure that this summary really contained the key information. we have now agreed to leave the summary as it is, but at the same time to ensure that it really contains key information, which will be defined definitively by the requirements of the directive and by a level 2 drafting. this will make it possible to shorten the so-called summary considerably, no longer 60, 70 or 80 pages, but perhaps only 20 or 30 pages, so as to have a readable reading, especially for the small investor. this is important so that the small investor is not lost here. fifthly, the question of liability: when a prospectus is drawn up, who is responsible for its contents? in particular, if an intermediary makes use of this prospectus, if it arbitrarily changes the content, then that intermediary is liable. the obligation to publish a prospectus shall end either when the time limit for the submission of tenders has expired or when trading has begun, whichever is the later. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been able to ensure that parliament has sufficient time to discuss the matter, not least through the influence of the chairmen of the econ committee. we have three months to respond to the commission and another three months if necessary. we have also committed ourselves, if there is really no other way, to give early approval, that is to say, to work within the shortest possible time. in this respect, all parties are satisfied.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i'll just give you a few pointers. first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner and all the other members for their kind comments. i'm glad you see it the way i do. our cooperation has indeed enabled us to achieve several objectives, namely to facilitate access to capital for smes, while reducing bureaucratic obstacles, improving and ensuring investor protection and at the same time making progress in the creation of a genuine european internal market. i hope that when this new version of the prospectus directive is revised again in a few years' time, we will also succeed in establishing the link between the prospectus directive and the market abuse and transparency directive, and that we will then perhaps also get to the point where we will allow non-dividend securities to choose another country within the european union as the starting point for issuance instead of the home market.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are putting these oral questions to the commission and the council on behalf of the committee on budgets to review the multiannual financial framework at a time of incredible economic and european political challenges, at a time when the future of the european union project will ultimately be decided. we are asking these oral questions because there are joint declarations and promises made in may 2006 in the framework of the interinstitutional agreement on budgets, which are clearly no longer valid today. at least that is our impression. in addition, the implementation of the lisbon treaty with new priorities in external action, sport, space, climate change, energy, to name a few. this means that we must also accompany these new priorities from the budgetary point of view. article 311 expressly states that the union shall provide itself with the financial means necessary to achieve its objectives and carry out its policies, without incurring any debt. the budgetary review statements of 17 may 2006 contain everything necessary to review the decisions taken at that time and, if necessary, to adapt them, including the express assurance of the involvement and participation of parliament in the related opinion-making process. i am disappointed that today, as rapporteur responsible at the time, i have to ask whether these agreements and commitments were really serious or whether they were a ruse from the start, simply needed to achieve an agreement in the council. the commission, mr lewandowski, is hesitating to make ambitious analyses and proposals because the council simply does not want to act? you must also decide whether you want to side with the council or with parliament. i would add that article 4 of the interinstitutional agreement expressly states that in the event of revision of the treaties with budgetary implications, the multiannual financial framework and the interinstitutional agreement must be adapted accordingly. and these needs, starting with the foreign service, and the priorities just mentioned, call for adjustments, not only of a technical nature but also of a political nature, of the iia and of the multiannual financial framework, certainly not all in the first year, but in the sense of multiannual financial planning with the greatest certainty. i would add at this point that it is also considered an affront if - obviously in response to the emergency, and there was certainly no other solution - the decision was taken quickly in the course of the stabilization and rescue package, but at the same time parliament's rights in the budgetary field were slightly overridden in a race against the clock. the commission should consider whether it should make use of article 124 to seek, on the commission's initiative, to have regular meetings at the highest level of the presidents of the institutions within the framework of the budgetary procedures, in order to finally move forward on these delicate issues. we should also talk, hopefully before or during the conciliation, about the adjustment of the multiannual financial framework - article 312 of the approval procedure - and the political adjustment of the budgetary iiv, also in the sense of political necessity, of the adjustment to the treaty of lisbon, of margins, of revisions, flexibilities, political future projects such as galileo and iter and the foreign service, in order to define projects of european added value and, of course, to exercise restraint where possible. i have to ask the commission and the council today, in all seriousness: are all these agreements to remain folklore? or are you seriously prepared to go to parliament? the treaty also stipulates that we shall take all the necessary measures to facilitate the adoption of the act during the procedure for adopting the financial framework. i don't feel any of that until today. and that is why i have to ask you: are you prepared and do you see yourself in a position to change the multiannual financial framework and at the same time bring it into line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty together with us? their answers - both the commission's and the council's - will determine the future of the budgetary policy of the next few years.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am disappointed both by the spanish council representative's reply today and by the answer given by commissioner lewandowski. you're playing a game of black peter. the spanish council representative says: 'yes, we need a commission proposal.' and mr lewandowski is quite right: we need a political vision for the future of the european union. but he won't tell us. he is saying again today: yes, we must talk about it and we will present some paper. the commission and the council have had many years to push this political initiative forward. i would remind you that in 2006, when the majority of the european parliament approved the financial perspective as it now exists, it was on the condition that there should be this mid-term review, that all revenue and all expenditure should be examined. the austrian chancellor schüssel said at the time: 'if we do not come to a new system, we will be at each other's throats in the next financial perspective'. we must stop the british rebate and we must really come to a new political location of our political objectives, but of course also of our budget. so far, none of this has happened. i'm sorry about that. what we really need is a debate on what the european budget is fed on. the commission is also proposing to introduce a tax on carbon dioxide emissions and financial transactions, so that we do not have to pay new taxes on the citizens, but rather to put the european budget on a transparent footing. we have not heard any of these proposals before. in the case of the structural funds, when we talk about climate policy, it is obvious that our structural policy must also be different and more sustainable if we are to take our own climate policy objectives seriously. the same is true of all the objectives for education policy, which is what the europe 2020 strategy means. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. and if we want to play a responsible role in foreign policy and crisis prevention, this must also be reflected in the european budget. now we all know that it is the responsibility of the states to reduce their debt. but we must nevertheless have a basic european understanding of our common global interests in the world, and this must be reflected in the next financial perspective. we should not waste any more time, we have already lost many years with the old structures. that is why we urgently need this preparation for the review, so that we can really come to new priorities.
president. - madam president, i would like to respond to some of the speeches, not all of them, because it is a very dense list, but to some of them, in a timely manner. i would like to share mr lewandowski's concern that all the resources available, both from the member states and from the european union itself, should be devoted, at this time of uncertainty and economic difficulty, to combating unemployment and getting out of the crisis as quickly as possible. i would like to say to mr marinescu that the council's guidelines did agree that the intensification of the foreign service would not be carried over to a higher cost, that is to say, it should in no case involve a higher expenditure and a greater allocation of resources to this end, but that budgetary neutrality would be maintained. i would like to point out to mrs gardiazábal rubial that the current budgetary framework offers sufficient flexibility to deal with some of the initiatives she is proposing and that the budget of the european union does not have a deficit, but is naturally fed by contributions from the member states, especially the gni resource. it is easy to understand that any more intensive use of this resource would aggravate the individual situation of each member state, which, as you all know, is extremely delicate at the moment. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. this position of principle does not, however, preclude that, in the event of exceptional circumstances, a review could be considered, as has already been done in the past on several occasions, in this programming period. but only after the other financing options have been explored. i would like to point out to mrs trüpel that there may indeed be a certain external reading that the commission is raising the question of the lack of precision on the part of the council as regards the need or the way forward in the modification of the financial framework and, in turn, the council could also be demanding a document from her to serve as a launching pad for this revision. but the fact is that both of us are in a very complicated macroeconomic situation, which requires two things: first, priority attention to solving these problems at national level, and second, to maintain the efforts being made from the european union, as they are right now in the current financial framework, without changes until there is sufficiently documented and consensual work. i would like to emphasize and express my solidarity with mr włosowicz in his defence of cohesion policy. the council has always defended this policy as a hallmark of the european union, as a platform for achieving the convergence objectives which the european union aims to achieve. so there will always be a 'full understanding' of this policy from the council. i would like to tell mrs andreasen that i do agree with her that in the present situation it is not possible to put any more additional resources into the european union and therefore these must be used, as i said in my opening speech, by prioritising and redistributing appropriations to make spending ever more efficient and to achieve objectives in the most intelligent way. this does not mean that there is any risk of democracy being lost in any of the countries you have mentioned, and i think that we should therefore rule out even the possibility of a risk, however remote, of such a phenomenon occurring. as for mr van der stoep, i would like to point out that we are going to propose that a possible flexibility of the financial framework regulation be studied. i would like to say to mr cozzolino that i am in agreement with what i said earlier, namely that it is difficult, in the present situation, for the member states, which are making a huge effort to reduce the deficit, to be able to allocate more resources to the budget of the european union. i would like to point out to mr ehrenhauser that we are going to prioritise and redistribute heading no 5 as far as possible and reduce its importance or its budget, provided that this does not adversely affect the control and the intelligent and efficient application of expenditure. and then that measure is embedded, it is included within the overall dynamic that i spoke about earlier of flexibility and prioritization. i would like to point out to mr fernandes that we are not in any way contemplating an extension of the multiannual financial framework, but that, on the contrary, things are proceeding as normal and the new financial framework will be adopted when the time is right. i would also say to mrs mcguinness that more resources are not possible at the moment, given the shortages and worsening economic situation or the difficulties many countries are experiencing, and that what we must try to do is to find a better use of these resources. i would also like to point out, in reply to another speaker, that the community budget has adapted itself to the crisis and has not been immobile in the face of this new situation which has hit us in the last two years and has also faced the social challenges which have arisen. and this was done, for example, with the european economic recovery plan. i would also like to end by thanking the council for the other comments made by the honourable members of the european parliament and for my personal and institutional thanks for their intervention.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank members for their interventions. listening to your comments, i can hear the clear voice in favour of revision that is in your understanding fresh money to finance the new challenges. on the other hand, i can also hear the concern as to the implications of the present financial crisis that is enforcing deep reductions in public expenditure in the member states. there were many questions on the review – which is no longer the mid-term review as it is delayed in agreement with the two arms of the budgetary power. it will come in september and will include quantifications of new own resources of the possible candidates to replace the national contributions that have been dominant so far. it will not be so much a technical report as a political one, concerning also the consequences of the lisbon treaty, which finds a strong supporter in mrs herczog. i believe that lisbon should not be associated only with additional administrative expenditure – which is the case nowadays – and should prove that this is value added, not only regarding the new posts and new type of administrative expenditure that is normally least loved by taxpayers in the european union. as to article 8.3, deleted by the council, we are to defend flexibility in one form or another. this is the clear conclusion from our conciliations since 2007. mr garriga polledo has enumerated several major challenges. it is not about supervisory agencies but mainly about iter, galileo and other large-scale projects, difficult to place within the existing multiannual framework. however we have quantifications. for iter it is very clear what will in come in 2012-13. however, we need long-term commitment before budgeting with this need to find the solution. as to the administration, i cannot promise mr ehrenhauser full answers about transparency, but i can promise that we are very serious in the commission about zero growth. there will be no additional posts until 2013. that is my understanding of the self-restraint that is needed in the time of crisis. i cannot respond fully to the questions on how to operate with surpluses under the present regime but it might be a contribution to the discussion of the rules of the next financial perspective. ms mcguinness asked about the non-paper. this is already forgotten, passé, non-existent! new papers should appear in october or november on the two big spending areas – cohesion and the common agricultural policy – and should be of a different nature to the one that has been leaked, the so-called non-paper. i am looking forward to cooperating on further steps. the calendar is very clear, with a vote on the lisbon package in november in the parliament and possible culmination with the conciliation. that is a vote in october and conciliation in november.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i understand some of the arguments of the council presidency, given the situation of the member states. but the council's answers do not yet fully reflect the needs and budgetary challenges facing the european union as a whole, including in terms of future orientation. this is a matter of working together. i understand the commissioner's approach to the matter in that he has now opened the door wide for further talks with his answers, and we are now going to try to get our foot in the door. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have attended every question period since 1994 and have never seen such a scandal. it is perfectly normal, when there are cuts, that every commissioner should have a cut. i have the first question with commissioner dalli, so i knew i'd be on the receiving end. president barroso is speaking to us in my group. i left there three quarters of an hour ago and have been sitting here for 45 minutes waiting for my turn! then you could be informed accordingly. i must say that i do not agree with this procedure and i ask that question time be stopped. you are the most important thing in a parliament! we are not a voting machine for the establishment! it is a right for every single member, a basic right which we have brought over from british parliamentarism in particular.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the european parliament has already expressed its opinion in the report by mr belet on professional football on the need for better regulation of the activities of sports agents, particularly in the field of player recruitment, and we proposed a corresponding directive at that time. we're back in the duct now. the legal situation is unclear. as players' agents are often active across borders, national legislation, if any, is not suitable to regulate these activities. the court of justice has also ruled that the commission's decision to grant aid to the french authorities is not in line with the principle of proportionality. as non-state actors, they have no right to set such far-reaching rules. in 2000, for example, fifa had to relax its licensing procedures for intermediaries for this very reason. in 2009, the commission published a study which highlights in particular the worrying links between gambling operators and criminal activities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. such links damage the integrity of sport and are incompatible with its social role. the study published by the commission also finds that the financial flows of player transfers are often not transparent, and this explains the vulnerability of this system to the criminal machinations i mentioned earlier. however, in particular in the case of the placement of young players, there is a particular risk that intermediaries exploit the situation of young, inexperienced players, for example in africa, giving them hope of a future as a professional footballer in europe and then dropping them if no club is found for them, so that these boys are stranded without work, without care as illegal immigrants in europe. in this context, a european legislative initiative is needed. this would create a uniform eu-wide regime that would close legal loopholes and support sports associations in their work for an orderly and transparent recruitment of players. in particular, as requested in our proposal, it should also be an objective to eliminate any commission payments to intermediaries in the case of transfers of underage players, so that there is no longer any financial incentive for such unfair transactions especially with minors . i hope that our motion today will be approved by the house tomorrow and that the commission will be encouraged to take action.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i believe that the european council on 17 may will be one of the most important in the recent history of the european union. it is a european council which brings to a close a whole series of actions and measures adopted by the european union in recent months in the fight against the economic crisis; not only in the fight against the crisis in an immediate way, with measures, let us say, defensive of the most damaging effects of that crisis on the european economies, on the european public and private economies, on the financial system, but also measures which look beyond the medium and long term to ensure that there is a way out of the crisis, so that europe consolidates its economic position and in the world, and there is therefore a strengthening of the whole european project, which has been affected by this crisis; consequently, we are very much faced with a question which affects the project of europe and not only a particular economic situation. so, over the past few months, the european union has been taking action. firstly, to combat the economic recession, the collapse of the financial system, it has been preparing an economic strategy for the future, to get out of the crisis, and at the same time it has been raising the need for taxation, for sustainable fiscal consolidation for the future, to the various states. i believe that the whole set of measures, the actions of the european union in recent months, is structured in this european council on 17 june, in a european council of one day, very dense in its content and where, without a doubt, the essential element, the centre of this european council is this perspective of overcoming the crisis, strengthening the european union itself. and in this european council, clearly, and definitively, these two guidelines which have sometimes acted in a separate way, on the one hand the immediate measures to protect the stability of the euro area essentially and of some european countries, for example aid to greece, and on the other hand the reflection on the european economic future and on the future european economic strategy have been united, have taken on a unitary body, and what the european council proposes is an economic strategy for the next decade in europe, where on the one hand the measures of fiscal consolidation, which are absolutely essential, are united, and on the other hand a strategy of growth and quality job creation is also united. all this is part of a strategy for overcoming the crisis, which therefore has a more short-term dimension, but also a medium- and long-term dimension. the strategic approach adopted by the european council for this crisis exit has four main aspects. all of them are absolutely essential if we are to achieve a strong exit, a consolidation and a strengthening of the european union and its project in the fight against this devastating crisis, unknown to all of us, of course, and unknown, we could almost say, in the last century. on the one hand, the european union clearly proposes fiscal consolidation, which is in turn projected in budgetary discipline, so that there is a whole series of austerity plans adopted by a high, very high percentage of european countries, further helped by the financial stability action developed by the european central bank, and which is part of a first essential element in this economic strategy of the european union to get out of the crisis. in that case there is a position of the european commission, which has set out the various scenarios, which is addressed to each of the states, for example, just yesterday, recently, as regards the monitoring by the european union of the adjustment plans of the various states and the procedures that a clear majority of states already have in relation to the stability and growth pact, the excessive deficit procedures. we therefore have a clear statement in the council conclusions of the need for fiscal consolidation in the member states of the union and, consequently, for a strategy of fiscal sustainability which, taken as a whole, will last until 2013, generally until 2013, when the objectives set out in the maastricht treaty will have to be finally achieved. in turn, and as the second major aspect of this strategy, there are what we might call preventive measures for future financial crises. we know that this crisis was triggered by a financial crisis, in principle, originating in the united states, which highlights the inadequate regulation of financial markets in the united states or in the european union. and that is why, from the very beginning, there has been a concern in the union to move towards genuine regulation of financial markets and supervision by european authorities of the operation of financial services. this is what is expressed in various regulations which were put forward by the commission, including under the previous presidency, the one before the spanish presidency, and which are now being negotiated in this house between the council and the european parliament. i would like to take this opportunity - i have already done this on several occasions - to ask the european parliament on behalf of the council to approach, to adopt a constructive approach - which the european parliament has adopted - in order to achieve a final agreement sooner rather than later on this financial supervision package, which is absolutely essential and would be a very good message to the citizens and to the markets at this time in the european union. in addition, there is a very important debate which will be raised at the european council and at the g20 meeting in toronto: the debate on the rates on the financial system. the bank levy, which will be the subject of that debate, as well as an approach to the g20, for the toronto meeting, which will be discussed later, and even a debate on a tax on international financial transactions. all this is part of what i call the preventive measures for the financial system, the financial regime, the financial regulation regime by the european union. there is a third and important dimension to this whole strategy, which is sustainable growth and the creation of quality jobs. we have called this the europe 2020 strategy, which is based on a very important commission communication, which has already been examined on several occasions by the european council and which will culminate this week in the adoption of the 2020 strategy, in which the council proposes that the european union should put all the instruments at its disposal to work towards this growth strategy. among them, the internal market, based on a very important report by mario monti and delivered to president barroso, as he requested. it is, in short, a question of achieving something which has been lost in some percentage in recent times in the european union, which is competitiveness. the 2020 strategy is about solving the problem of competitiveness in the european union and that is why it sets some objectives. i hope that the five headline targets will be definitively quantified, including education and the fight against poverty at this european council. and now it is about the practical implementation of that strategy from now on by each of the member countries. finally, the fourth fundamental element of this economic strategy, which the european council will firmly establish as the great political and economic strategy for the coming years, is the so-called economic governance of the union. this is a fundamental element. this governance is the specific subject of the work of the so-called task force chaired by mr van rompuy. economic governance is also the subject of specific proposals on this subject by the european commission, in particular those put forward by commissioner olli rehn, who was present here on 12 may, proposals which have as their main objective the coordination of economic policies in the european union. all these fundamental aspects, culminating in the economic governance of the union, constitute a historic step, which we believe is of great importance, and which this european council must ratify and consolidate, which is certainly the definitive step towards economic union, not just monetary union, an economic union worthy of the name. we left monetary union alone years ago, but there has never really been an economic union and this is what we are trying to establish, a true european economic union. in addition to this major objective of the european council, as you know, the european council will also be dealing with other subjects. it will deal, for example, with the european union's united approach, europe's position on the g20 in toronto and will be the subject of further debate here in this house this morning, and also other elements which will certainly be the subject of a much shorter debate in the european council, but which are no less important, such as the millennium development goals. for the first time, development cooperation issues will be dealt with by a european council. never before in the history of the european union has this happened. the council will also have to deal with the question of iran, on the basis of a draft declaration prepared by the foreign affairs council in luxembourg on monday. the european council will also take note of the progress made in implementing the european pact on immigration and asylum. i would also like to remind you that this european council will discuss the opening of negotiations for iceland's accession to the european union, that it will also discuss the prospect of estonia joining the euro area and that a decision will also be taken on the convening of the intergovernmental conference which will approve the proposal to amend protocol 36 of the treaty on the increase in the number of members of this european parliament for the remainder of the current parliamentary term. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. − mr president, first of all a word of thanks to the spanish presidency. the spanish presidency has accomplished a very difficult task at an exceptional moment in the european union. i think it is fair to recognise their commitment and their european conviction in times of crisis. through minister lópez garrido, i want to convey to the spanish government my sincere thanks for all the relevant contributions he has been making, especially during this six months, for our common european project. ahead of tomorrow’s european council, i would like to draw some lessons from the past few months and set out the direction that i believe the european union needs to take. in the last few months, we have taken decisions which would have been difficult to imagine just a few months ago. we succeeded in reinventing our economic response to meet urgent needs in a way that respects our most cherished principles: solidarity and responsibility. so we were able to bring support to our fellow europeans in greece, in the framework of a mechanism that contains the necessary rules and obligations. it took some time but the system is now in place. both the system itself, and the european union, have proved equal to the task. moreover, we are also succeeding in designing a crisis response for the euro. this was a major effort, accomplished in a very short time and unmatched anywhere in the world. with this european mechanism and this european facility that together amount to eur 500 billion, supplemented by eur 250 billion from the imf, we have ensured that we can face any further difficulty, should such a difficulty arise. this was uncharted territory, but the european union has been doing what is necessary to address the risks to financial stability. and, although those who like to speak loudly about europe’s problems are reluctant to admit it, this is the reality: when action is needed, provided the political will of the member states is there, we are able to take up the challenge. moreover, we have not stopped at short-term stabilisation. we have embarked on a far-reaching exercise of fiscal consolidation and modernisation of our budgetary and economic surveillance. i hope the european council will give backing to the commission’s proposals to strengthen fiscal discipline and macroeconomic surveillance which in the meantime have been constructively discussed in the task force led by president van rompuy. we have started to deliver on our europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. in other words, we are adding dynamism to the economy, for instance through the digital agenda, in addition to the stabilisation and consolidation efforts. we are striving to avoid a decade of debt and build a generation of growth. in fact, the potential growth of the european union has been severely affected by the last financial crisis, so the most important priority now is growth. growth is the answer, but not any kind of growth. we need intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth. i want to underline this last point – inclusive growth, because i think it would not be fair that the most vulnerable in our societies, those who were not the cause of this crisis, will be those who have to pay much more during this crisis. for this growth to happen we need fiscal consolidation and structural reform. it is obvious that, without serious efforts in these areas, confidence will not come back and without confidence we cannot have growth. so in fact we now have the opportunity to go further in our economic policy efforts. we have to advance on several fronts at once and this is a most important lesson to come out of this crisis. in fact, faced with the problem with monetary union, the result should not be going back on our monetary union, but should be going further in economic union. this is the important point. we need a real effort for an economic union in europe. that is why there is a holistic approach combining several instruments: of course fiscal consolidation and structural reform, but also sectoral reform for growth. that is why the europe 2020 strategy places at its heart the elements of growth – intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth. but this is not the whole programme. the programme is about growth but also in terms of structural reforms, financial reform and the new economic governance for europe. yesterday during the question hour i had the opportunity to discuss this issue of economic governance. i will not go into detail now but i want to say that we are committed to using this opportunity to reinforce economic governance at european level. tomorrow’s european council should signal to people that we have a new perspective for growth with the europe 2020 strategy. but i believe that agreeing the strategy, including the targets – and i am happy that now a consensus appears to have been built around the targets, including the targets of achieving a greater degree of social inclusion – is, relatively, the easier part. where we really need to invest and work together is on the delivery, year after year. the commission will play its full role, using all the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty, and i look forward to discussing this in more detail with the european parliament. people also need to see that financial markets are actually being repaired and that promises are kept. we need agreement on financial supervision before the summer to back up our intentions with action, and we need a clear signal from the european council that the commission’s forthcoming proposals on financial market regulation will be adopted by the end of 2011. it is important not to lose momentum on financial reform. we must also show that the crisis has not dimmed our commitment to the millennium development goals or our determination to lead on climate change. this parliament has given the commission full support for an ambitious european approach. europe played a key role in shaping the global response to the crisis. it was the eu that pushed for the g20 to become the global forum for economic recovery. now we need the summit in toronto to reinforce the message that the g20 remains committed. that does not mean that we all face the same challenges or must respond in the same way, but what we all know is that none of those problems can be effectively tackled at home without a collective response at international level. i have explained in my letter to the european council what should be the three key areas in toronto. first, to agree common principles for exit strategies in terms of fiscal consolidation. we have already done this at european level, but a global approach would help the many economies around the world facing the same challenge. second, the world needs to be working on developing new sources for growth, as we are advocating internally. all the major economies need to play their part to achieve the agreed objectives of strong, balanced, sustainable growth. coordination at global level is critical for optimising growth prospects. we need both the supply and demand side, worldwide, to spur productivity and unleash the potential for growth. a strong message here would be a big boost to confidence globally, namely i think we should keep in mind that trade can be – and should be – one of the elements to spur new sources of growth. we also need to drive forward the global agenda for financial reform and repair. 2010 is the crucial year for implementing what the g20 has already agreed, and for keeping the momentum for further reforms. this means improving both the quantity and quality of bank capital and discouraging excessive leverage, improving supervisory and crisis management processes, ensuring convergent international accounting standards, and increasing the transparency of derivative markets. we cannot be seen to be stepping back from reforms or from ensuring that the financial sector and those who work in it are playing their full part in these efforts. this is why i will continue to call for a common framework for a bank levy at global level. it is only fair that the financial sector, where irresponsible behaviour triggered this crisis, makes a contribution to solving the crisis. as i have said before, i am personally convinced that we will also need to work on a financial transaction tax or a financial activities tax. the situation is serious and in fact extremely challenging. wages are being cut. unemployment remains very high. the pressure on people, especially the most vulnerable, is intense. at the european council and the g20 summit, we must show that europe is part of the solution. we are facing a very difficult moment – in fact, one of the most difficult moments in recent history – but, by tackling these difficulties, we are laying the foundations for a better future. once again, we can see that a crisis can accelerate decision-making when it crystallises political will. solutions that seemed out of reach only a few years or even months ago are now possible. as the history of european construction reminds us, it is usually in times of crisis like this that we can make progress in the european project. the reality is that member states are now ready to accept some proposals that some years ago, or even some months ago, were simply not acceptable, and i can give you a lot of concrete examples. so if we keep our commitment to give the facts to our citizens, to work with our member states and to explain that we need europe more than ever, i think this crisis can be a platform for a common european response and for a stronger europe. of course the game is not over. it is an extremely delicate moment, and that is why i would like to thank parliament for its steadfast support for the strengthening of the community method at this point of time. i would like especially to thank the most important political forces in parliament that stood up and said that, more than ever, we need a european approach and the reinforcement of the community method. we sometimes have the reflex to look for new institutions and structures when a problem emerges, but the reality is the community method has stood the test of time because it is more adaptable than some might think. i believe that europeans want us to concentrate on substance. they do not want more divisive discussions about institutions or processes. they want results. this is also what the rest of the world is expecting from us. in fact we are at a specific moment in time where europeans, the markets and the global community are asking europe to be better coordinated and better organised to achieve greater levels of convergence and coherence. this is why i think we need to work through the institutions that we have and use them to their full potential. this house has repeatedly emphasised the central role of the commission. yes, the commission, in the areas in which the treaties give it the competence, is indeed the economic government of europe. the commission, which is fully accountable to the european parliament, exercises this role in cooperation with the european council and the council of ministers, in the respect of their competences. this is not only about european union competences. we also need a better coordination on issues under national competence. it is in such a spirit of cooperation that we can help the member states to chart the way forward. let me be clear: this is not about a brussels power grab. this is not a new round in the debate over the division of powers. today’s task is to add value – european value – through the vigorous, responsible and complementary exercise of our respective roles. the european union will do it in full respect of the community method and reinforcing a european response. you can count on the commission to fully assume its responsibilities. we are doing our job. we count on the decisive input and support of parliament. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, the men and women who are meeting today in brussels and those who will be meeting tomorrow have a great responsibility on their shoulders, because europe is at a crossroads. those who have made their bets in the international financial markets that the euro will fail want to win their bets. and these people have no morals. you don't know the rules either. so it's high time we create rules for them and enforce them. but they have no morals! we live in a time when politics is dominated by people whose only goal is to maximize profit at any cost, without any moral value. and we have to make sure that these people lose the fight! one element in ensuring that they lose this battle and we win it is to put a stop to the trend of renationalisation that is taking place in europe. i defend the community method because i know that if i have a single currency, i cannot afford to adopt and allow 17 different national economic policies, 17 different planning strategies, 17 different investment considerations. what we need is an ever more coordinated and deepened common economic policy in a single monetary area. this is not about the nation state, this is about common rules in europe! and we have an institution for that, the commission! that is why, mr barroso, you have received a great boost of confidence from the resolution we are adopting here today and from the four group chairmen who supported you yesterday. but i also have one expectation from you: that you will now also act as a strong and militant commission president who says to them: enough with your renationalization! we have a second job. we must confront people with no morals with values. not the maximizing values of money, but the values of solidarity, the values of community, the values of protecting those who cannot defend themselves alone. who are these people who sit in these rating agencies? i would like to take the example of spain, the incumbent presidency. the same rating agencies that have been pressuring spain with a concept of austerity, that have been telling you to save, save, save and save again to get your ratings up, are making the remark, at the moment when spain is painfully implementing its austerity budget: "but growth cannot be enough now because there is not enough to invest". there is no growth strategy, so we put spain down. it's a game! these are the very people who have made their bet, who are gambling with the fate of entire nations by their immoral ways. (applause from the centre) you gotta give these people a break. i am therefore a little surprised, mr president of the commission, that you are reluctant to ban uncovered short selling, for example. you're gonna get a majority for this. i would also like to tell you why i believe that, together with colleagues with whom i do not always agree, i must defend the community method. the community method is not a technique, but a political vision. the community method is a message. it is the message that where the nation state can no longer act alone, the community of states and peoples must act to be able to defend the interests of the people who live in those states and of the people who make up those peoples better than the nation state can. this community method, now over 50 years old, has become the greatest period of prosperity, the longest period of peace and the greatest period of security in the history of europe. but we have people in europe who do not want to question the post-war order of the second world war, but to question the post-war order of the first world war. does anyone really think that those who are now propagating similar conflicts, who are now making territorial claims - these people exist in europe, they even sit in parliaments - would not be ready to use violence again if it were not for the power of european integration? they would stir up the nations against each other again today if they could! the community method is not just a social policy project, but the safeguarding of peace on this continent. that's why we need them, and that's why i defend them. social security and peace go together. without social security, there is no peace. and peace is the best way to guarantee social security between peoples in the long term. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was really right that we, with four groups, had positioned ourselves for the community method. this was necessary because the intergovernmental politics and the intergovernmental maneuvering of the last weeks and months have basically always and again counteracted the rescue measures to a certain extent. the reason why we have not achieved what we have decided is precisely because the european union has always put too much emphasis on individual interests rather than the common good. but i do not agree with guy verhofstadt that it is now a question of the european parliament's political will, which is only voiced, as to how we get this economic government. i think that jean-claude juncker has been very frank with the president of the group of the european people's party over the last week when he has spoken about the limits of the existing treaties, and if we do not speak out loudly and openly here for the amendment of the treaties, we cannot say that the commission is and will be the european economic government. so let us be honest, mr verhofstadt, we know what we want! how do we get there? the commission must play a central role in cooperation with the european parliament and the institution, for the sake of ecofin. we must, as mr juncker has said, use the treaties, the possibilities of the treaties, now to promote the community method. in my view, ecofin must work on the basis of proposals made by the european commission. this can only work because the european view of the action is now necessary. how do we ensure democratic legitimacy? mr barroso, as much as we are giving you credit for the advances you are receiving, as much as we are giving you confidence at the moment, we must develop this question of democratic legitimacy, the involvement of the european parliament, the involvement of the national parliaments too. and i can tell you, the petty argument over the framework agreement that torments me here week after week, it shows me that you are not open to it at all. but if we want to account for the billions we are moving alone in these bailouts, then we need democratic legitimacy for action at european level. (applause from the right) if you want to continue the policy of the darkrooms, you will fail. let me address what i believe is one of the most important issues: if this european 'economic government' now starts to act in some way autonomously and gives itself an agenda, because so far the agenda and the rhythms are determined by news from stock exchanges or rating agencies, one of the most important issues will be whether the path of iron saving, which we are now taking almost throughout europe, is the only way to deal with the debt problems in europe. i believe that if we all - the states, the citizens and the companies - continue to save because of the uncertainty of the crisis, we will almost certainly be heading towards recession, and i do not want to take responsibility for that. countries like germany, which are better off today because of the euro and because of the european union, also have to say how the growth part of the pact is to work and how we want to achieve what we have described under europe 2020 with what support programmes. ladies and gentlemen, we have a difficult road ahead of us. the treaties do not give us everything we want, but if we continue to allow the rich to get richer and the poor to get poorer even in the midst of the crisis, as the oecd reported last week, then i share the horror scenarios martin schulz described in his speech. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our group does not criticise the ifs but the hows of the newly created euro-bailout. as in 2009, the rescue of the banks and the financial sector is again at stake. they will not be involved in the costs of averting impending crises. the eu's distressed countries are being told again: social cuts, harsh cuts in public investment, reduction of public services, cuts in wages and pensions, increase in the retirement age. the planned tightening of the stability pact is pure pseudo-monetarism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the budget. but these cuts will put domestic demand and tax revenue in europe in the cellar. the recession is back. we believe that this policy is fundamentally wrong and does not lead to sound public finances. we are again told that structural reforms are to be used to increase growth. the aim is to further deregulate labour markets, privatise public services through public-private partnerships and further liberalise the european single market. this makes working conditions even more precarious and insecure. this is exacerbating poverty and social exclusion in the very year in which they are supposed to be tackled. this is what you claim to be fighting with the europe 2020 strategy. but where are the investments in education, research, green jobs and poverty reduction to come from if all member states are pursuing this austerity policy? in short, the europe 2020 strategy is not worth the paper on which its extremely modest objectives are written. our group supports the protest actions of trade unions and social movements against this disastrous course of the european union. we agree with the european trade union confederation: an eu-wide financial transaction tax, eurobonds, eco-taxes and rigorous taxation of high incomes, wealth and inheritances can make it possible to invest in the ecological and social transformation of our industrial societies. europe now needs firstly a european social and ecological investment programme for the future to overcome the crisis, secondly decisive measures to break the power of the financial markets, and thirdly a european economic government and more economic democracy in the interests of the wage-earners. europe will either become social or we will soon have no common europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is a really important summit at the end of this week, and i'm actually surprised that it's only a one-day summit. the big agenda will not solve the problems. i would like to expressly support the president of the commission in his statement that solidarity and responsibility are required. solidarity and responsibility, mr minister, also mean that europe must not fall behind in intergovernmental cooperation, in which the european commission and the european parliament are left out in the cold. some colleagues have referred to the community method. we strongly urge that the democratic progress of the last 30 years not be reversed by the council. we do not need a new organisation of the eurozone, our own secretariats, as some parts of the council have proposed. we have the commission, and the commission is called for. the commission, when it carries out its task, has our support in regulating the financial markets, in defining longterm objectives, in enforcing the community method. i can only say that mr schulz has been unethical in his criticism of the markets. you can't shoot the messenger who brings the bad news. it is the responsibility of the member states which abolished the stability and growth pact five years ago. it is the responsibility of the member states which have not followed the rules. so i would like to appeal to you to enforce strict regulation of financial markets, but not to distract from the fact that we must act in our own responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr lópez garrido for the council! i would ask you to convey a message to the council: the policy of excuses is over. it is not possible that you will decide tomorrow that this parliament should, please, adopt the package on supervision, the package on hedge funds in financial regulation, more quickly, when at the same time the council - and, mr lópez garrido, i do not mean you personally, but i would like to encourage you to help us - is on the brakes and is preventing us from coming to solutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the regulation of hedge funds. we have proposed appropriate regulations to prevent the financial industry from using speculative funds to infiltrate industrial enterprises and destroy the real economy. but the council is blocking these appropriate arrangements. tell the heads of state and government that the policy of excuses is over! it is not right that they should be talking at home about what europe should do and then be talking here when their officials come to the european level. that is over, and we can no longer afford that in the face of the economic crisis. the same question is addressed to you, mr barroso, president of the commission. it doesn't matter whether you say the word growth 49 times, 52 times or 64 times. it is much more important that you explain how this is to be done, when the ecofin has just declared that we have to save a huge amount of money in the member states of the european union, i.e. 3.5% of their gross national product, but you do not explain how this is to prevent a mega-catastrophe on the labour market. we must learn to grow together in this situation. but tell me how to do it! otherwise, the europe 2020 strategy is not worth the paper money spent on it. we need real answers, no more fictions, no more excuses, otherwise the institutions you represent are part of the problem and not part of the solution.
i have to say, madam president, of course we need economic governance, of course the member states must consolidate and reorganize their budgets. but what we are seeing now is a radical reduction in social budgets. unemployment and poverty are increasing, and people do not understand that on the one hand banks and business are being supported, but when it comes to fighting poverty and unemployment, it is all about lip service and unverifiable goals. this is why the europe 2020 strategy and the integrated guidelines are of particular importance. we want to stick to the goal of full employment and we want good jobs instead of precarious jobs. it's about poverty reduction, and it's about really more ambitious goals. we therefore call on the council to respond to the commission's proposal that poverty in europe must be reduced by 25%. the european parliament has concrete objectives and it is important that parliament be taken seriously.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i am delighted that we have a chance today to talk about the outcome of the last eu-russia summit in rostov-on-don. it was a good summit, it was pragmatic and constructive in character and it confirmed russia’s desire for a stronger relationship with the european union. at the summit, we launched the partnership for modernisation. as honourable members know, a constant theme in president medvedev’s time in office has been his recognition that russia must modernise. the eu – as russia’s most important trade partner and biggest investor – is a natural partner in this. our approach is clear: to be successful, any drive to modernise must take a broad approach. it must encourage innovation and entrepreneurship, but also strengthen democratic values and the rule of law. this is why the effective functioning of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and dialogue with civil society are priority areas for the partnership for modernisation. as the eu has in the past, we raised concerns about the day-to-day situation for human rights defenders and journalists. the demonstrations on 31 may in moscow were an example of the difficulties that continue regarding the constitutional right to freedom of assembly. growing instability in the north caucasus is another area of concern. but there have been positive developments too, and it is important we acknowledge them: the extension of the moratorium on the death penalty and the ratification of protocol 14 of the european convention on human rights. work on the rule of law and fighting corruption will also contribute to a more business-friendly environment. investment flows to russia have fallen off, and russia understands it must do more to attract investors. joining the world trade organisation fits with this broader strategy of strengthening rules-based processes. the eu backs russia’s early accession and we hope that the work to do so can be completed soon. political commitments to open trade must be translated into reality. the implementation of the russia-kazakhstan-belarus customs union has raised some concerns. we have no issue with customs unions in general – the eu is a customs union – but we are concerned when these hinder trade rather than promote it, as appears to be the case with the proposed customs union. on energy our discussions focused on physical infrastructure, on the legal basis for our energy relations, and on energy efficiency. the partnership for modernisation will have a big part to play here. we need to see solid energy provisions in our new agreement, reflecting the principles of the energy charter treaty. we also underlined that we see the energy charter as the most natural forum to discuss proposals for a multilateral energy security framework. energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gases are key in the fight against climate change. we encouraged russia to be more ambitious on targets (currently 15%-20% compared to 1990 levels), and we will continue our efforts in the run-up to cancún. on visas, russia is keen to proceed quickly, but it understands the internal context on this sensitive issue in the european union. the eu underlined the need to move step-by-step, in a results-oriented approach. we have tabled a concrete proposal to this end and will also look again at our visa facilitation agreement. we hope that bilateral agreements on local border traffic can be concluded with both poland and lithuania which would help russians living in kaliningrad. we also discussed crisis management cooperation, with both sides underlining the good experiences of eufor chad and eu navfor atalanta. we agreed to see if we could develop this cooperation further. russia handed over concrete proposals, which we will examine. obviously, the eu decision-making autonomy must remain intact. the summit was also an opportunity to discuss a number of international issues: the middle east peace process, the iranian nuclear programme, afghanistan/pakistan, kosovo, the eastern neighbourhood, as well as broader european security. i was pleased with the joint statement that foreign minister lavrov and i made on the loss of life during the israeli military operation against the flotilla sailing to gaza. however, and as expected, our views diverged on georgia, kosovo and moldova, where we heard well-known russian positions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, high representative/vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank you very much, mrs ashton, for your speeches and for the way in which the summit was conducted. it has become clear - and this has been expressed there - that there are concerns about certain developments in the rule of law in russia, certain trials, certain demonstrations. the fact that international law has not yet been established in relation to georgia, for example, and many other things. on the other hand, we must also see progress, and the agreement on modernisation is certainly an important contribution to making progress in this area. we must see that russia is of great strategic importance to us. we have great common interests in the economic field, in the energy field. the fact that we have reached a common position on the 5+1 negotiations with iran and the un resolution, as well as on other issues, seems to me to be of great importance. i also believe that intensifying the quartet's work on the middle east is of great importance if we are to get things moving. but it is also a question of russia's credibility, how we manage to get the negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement moving forward, how the policy of the four areas is being implemented, how the question of human rights is being taken into account. but as you said, the fundamental issues which have been dealt with in the energy charter and which have not been applied are important to many of us. russia must be prepared to be legally bound by such agreements, just as it must be prepared to take the wto negotiations seriously and to take steps towards wto membership seriously if it is to be a full-fledged player in this international arena. the customs union with kazakhstan and belarus is not a good indication of this. but i think these international ties are important, also in terms of the credibility of the g20 engagement. i think it is right that the visa issue be pushed forward. but we should make it clear that this is to be consistent with the developments in visa issues with regard to the eastern neighbouring countries, which must not be put at a disadvantage. it must not be that it is easier to get from ukraine to europe with a russian passport than with a ukrainian one. i hope you're keeping an eye on that timing.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have a poor resolution on the lack of results of the eu-russia summit. with all of president medvedev's pronouncements about modernizing russia, we should not tire of pointing out that modernization is not just a technical issue. while it is understandable that russia wants to develop nanotechnology and build a silicon valley, modernisation also requires an active and vibrant civil society in which creative forces can flourish freely. we should offer russia such a comprehensive partnership for modernisation, and that is why it is important to overcome deficits and address problems, as european council president van rompuy thankfully did in rostov and lady ashton just now. but that should also be reflected in our resolution. that is why we have tabled four amendments, which i would ask you to support. the european union is also calling for the release of mr khodorkovsky and mr platon lebedev, for an end to the violence in the north caucasus and for the freedom of assembly guaranteed by the russian constitution. because freedom on the outside - that is, visa-free travel - should go hand in hand with freedom on the inside. because we believe that freedom should not be divided in russia.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. high representative and vice-president of the commission! we regularly discuss the relationship between the european union and the russian federation in the european parliament. i have signed on behalf of my group the joint motion for a resolution tabled by parliament, despite the limited statements made there on the outcome of the recent eu-russia summit. but let me add this: it was the first summit after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and it was for this very reason that the russian side hoped for a more resolute european union. for russia, the eu is a natural strategic partner with which it shares common values. i would remind you that in february 2010 the russian federation was the last of the 47 member states of the council of europe to ratify the echr, thus signalling that it shares the common values of the council of europe. russia was particularly hopeful of progress on the issue of visa-free travel, and i would remind you: the negotiations have been going on for seven years and no concrete results have yet been achieved. i fully share the view that the proposal for a partnership for modernisation is a step towards a strategic partnership agreement. but i do not think it is enough, especially since, according to the centre for european reform, for example, european technologies should not be transferred to projects in which the russian state participates. the european union is not being farsighted, and many opportunities for cooperation - especially by small and mediumsized enterprises - and thus for building trust are being missed. why is the substance of these meetings, which have been going on for a year and a day, so meager? in my view, we must remember that the main challenge for both sides remains to overcome the lack of mutual trust. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. energy and the environment are central to a constructive relationship between the eu and russia, aimed at solving existing problems. we have too often referred to energy policy as a strategic instrument of cooperation and a positive example of confidence building, but it is in the energy sector in particular that there is too much misunderstanding and omission. we must make a decisive correction here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what mr swoboda has just said is also the position of our group. we want a strategic partnership with russia. we also believe that we do not have it, simply because a strategic partnership cannot yet be built on the basis of values which we do not share with russia at the moment. however, i believe there are signs of hope. i believe these signs of hope are a great opportunity for your tenure, baroness ashton, an opportunity that perhaps your predecessor did not have. what i see in russia is a "western policy" that is becoming more constructive than what we have seen in the past. the settlement of the border dispute with norway in the arctic - which concerns large resources - is a remarkable step. the agreement with ukraine on the sevastopol base and gas supplies is a remarkable step which will hopefully also stabilise the gas supply to the european union. the reconciliation with poland in connection with the smolensk tragedy is particularly noteworthy. these are all steps that are remarkable. i also want to mention that it was really unexpected that russian state television would broadcast andrzej wajda's film "katyn" twice in prime time. there is a new attitude in russia which gives me hope. this 'western policy' is also due to the fact that russia has now realised that its real problems lie in the south and east. kyrgyzstan has been called iran. perhaps russia's voting behaviour in the un security council regarding the sanctions against iran is part of this "western policy". the agreement on a new start treaty is certainly one of them. there is hope let's hope for an improvement in relations, let's hope that we can move forward to a strategic partnership!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu-russia summit has produced a good result, in particular with regard to the concretisation of the modernisation partnership. i very much welcome the inclusion of civil society dialogue as a priority in this modernisation partnership. as the head of our eu-russia delegation, i chaired a working session in perm a few days ago, which dealt specifically with the topic of 'building civil society'. we have seen once again the progress that has been made in russia in recent years, but also how much remains to be done, and how much we can bring to this discussion from our experience, good and otherwise. exchange is a very central concept for me. there is no partnership for modernisation without an exchange of people. so i'm also a little disappointed that the eu hasn't really moved forward on visa-free travel. we must now set concrete targets on which the eu and russia can work together. it is not a question of meeting deadlines, certainly not of following any order, but of being predictable on these issues, of having clearly defined criteria, and of having everyone, including russia, know for sure that when these conditions are met, when the concrete problems are solved, visa-free travel will come.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the other language versions do not change. this is for legal certainty only: it is about 'non-prepacked food' instead of 'non-finished packaged food'. this is a linguistic change in the german version.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. this amendment is about labelling products containing nanomaterials. i agree with him on principle. i just want to make it clear that it has to be a stable nanomaterial. because there's no stable nanomaterial, which would be, for example, sugar, that's so fine-grained to powder sugar that it's nanoparticle-sized. non-stable nanomaterials are not known to cause any harm to the body. i would therefore like to have this addition in the oral amendment: 'contains a stable nanomaterial'.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the first part of amendment no 101 has now been adopted, the second rejected. i think that is why we still have to vote on amendment no 328. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the term 'delegated act' should be inserted instead of 'comitology procedure'. that is why we have to vote on my terms.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. without wishing to debate the substance of the matter, this is a question which the tabling office has now decided as it stands on the ballot. the epp amendment is to delete article 29 (1) (b). what mr schlyter is saying is something which was also voted on again in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety under point (b), but which is numbered with (ba). i would therefore ask the commission to make a statement on the matter, and i would ask the council to make a statement on the matter. i am of the opinion that the tabling office should be followed. in my view, if 295 is adopted, this amendment 144 must be dropped. since there are different opinions on this, and since the honourable member was so kind as to inform me before he went to the house with this matter, i suggest that we still vote separately on amendment no 144.
mr president, we must vote on amendment no 339 which is not acceptable to us. this is again a matter of technical adaptation of 'delegated acts'.
mr president, amendment no 313 has been rejected in both parts, so we must now vote on amendment no 149.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. amendment no 316 should not have been put to the vote because amendment no 316 will be rejected if amendment no 313 is adopted. amendment no 313 was voted on in two parts and was not adopted. sorry, i was wrong!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you just said at the vote that 346 was rejected. i think that was a misjudgment on your part. again, it was a question of technical adaptation. the groups are in agreement. i'd like you to re-interview 346.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to welcome estonia to the euro area. i am happy about each new member in the eurozone, because a common currency is a great factor of integration. however, i would like to remind the commission that there are stability criteria which must be respected. i sometimes get the impression that this is a place where former members of the eurozone are taking advantage of special privileges. rules are for you to follow. if you break the rules, you must be punished. this is also true, and particularly so, of the euro stability criteria.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, consumers have a right to know what is in their food. but if anyone thinks that the new labelling will cause a stir in europe, that people will eat healthier, he is mistaken. what we need is nutrition counseling and nutrition education, not just for adults, but especially for children, and that's becoming increasingly important. if you eat a variety of foods and exercise a lot, you don't have to give up your chocolate bars. that should also be the message we have decided today with this vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the regulation should improve consumer information and thus promote the fight against obesity. the commission has already made a number of proposals. with today's decision we have achieved the objective of providing consumers with a great deal of information. whether what we have decided today will always be effective remains to be seen. but i want to make it very clear that the chain of improved information plus healthy eating = reduced obesity is not going to go away. we will have to do more - also from this parliament - for education and information, especially in our schools. but in terms of de-bureaucratisation, we have achieved the opposite. if i consider that we still have the nutritional profiles in the shop, if i consider that the labelling of origin is still in the shop, then we have burdened the bureaucracy that will overburden the citizen, and he will not take the information to reduce obesity at all.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the european commission's proposal to exempt selfemployed long-distance and bus drivers from the working time directive. these have no place in this directive. for the selfemployed, there are already clear rules on driving and rest periods. i cannot therefore accept road safety as a justification. i very much regret that the plenary followed the recommendation of the committee on employment and social affairs. this is a clear interference with the freedom of trade and a tremendous burden on the selfemployed concerned. and this at a time when our main concern should be to strengthen and reduce the bureaucratic burden on small and mediumsized enterprises. in this difficult economic situation, the european union should do everything in its power to support our companies and not burden them with further regulations and bureaucratic red tape.
in writing. - consumer information on food is undoubtedly important. the debate in brussels is nevertheless characterised by a lobbying battle between food industry groups and consumer protection associations. the reality of consumer life has not found a place. the fdp in the european parliament has advocated a minimum level of labelling. the aim is to enable consumers to make their purchasing decisions on the basis of transparent and readable information. colour labels are a form of consumer misdirection and cannot be the basis for transparent information. the so-called gda (guidelines daily amount) also have weaknesses. instead of having neutral nutritional values in terms of 100 grams or millilitres printed legibly on packaging, it was discussed whether the daily requirement of a 40-year-old woman could be used as a reference size or whether the colour labelling of nutrients is a useful decision aid. the proposed broad obligations to indicate the origin of ingredients are not feasible in practice. we also rejected special national schemes, since the aim is to achieve the most uniform possible labelling. for these reasons we could not agree to the report proposed.
in writing. - i have decided to vote for the summer report, as did the majority of alde. the liberals certainly did not win on all points. the adoption of the indication of origin also for meat and milk in processed products is regrettable because it imposes considerable costs on producers and seems to be difficult to implement in practice. however, i think the positive results of the vote clearly outweigh the negative: we now have uniform rules for food labelling throughout the internal market for the first time, without the possibility of national exclusive sales. i also think that a decisive success of this vote is that the misleading traffic light sign was rejected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not subject to any restrictions. the labelling system, which is uniform across europe, brings clear benefits to businesses and consumers: the fact that manufacturers will in future have to comply with a single regulation will reduce the costs of production and distribution. the consumer benefits from a uniform nutrition labelling system for comparing products within europe.
in writing. - consumer information on food is undoubtedly important. the debate in brussels is nevertheless characterised by a lobbying battle between food industry groups and consumer protection associations. the reality of consumer life has not found a place. the fdp in the european parliament has advocated a minimum level of labelling. the aim is to enable consumers to make their purchasing decisions on the basis of transparent and readable information. colour labels are a form of consumer misdirection and cannot be the basis for transparent information. the so-called gda (guidelines daily amount) also have weaknesses. instead of having neutral nutritional values in terms of 100 grams or millilitres printed legibly on packaging, it was discussed whether the daily requirement of a 40-year-old woman could be used as a reference size or whether the colour labelling of nutrients is a useful decision aid. the proposed broad obligations to indicate the origin of ingredients are not feasible in practice. we also rejected special national schemes, since the aim is to achieve the most uniform possible labelling. for these reasons we could not agree to the report proposed.
in writing. - consumer information on food is undoubtedly important. the debate in brussels is nevertheless characterised by a lobbying battle between food industry groups and consumer protection associations. the reality of consumer life has not found a place. the fdp in the european parliament has advocated a minimum level of labelling. the aim is to enable consumers to make their purchasing decisions on the basis of transparent and readable information. colour labels are a form of consumer misdirection and cannot be the basis for transparent information. the so-called gda (guidelines daily amount) also have weaknesses. instead of having neutral nutritional values in terms of 100 grams or millilitres printed legibly on packaging, it was discussed whether the daily requirement of a 40-year-old woman could be used as a reference size or whether the colour labelling of nutrients is a useful decision aid. the proposed broad obligations to indicate the origin of ingredients are not feasible in practice. we also rejected special national schemes, since the aim is to achieve the most uniform possible labelling. for these reasons we could not agree to the report proposed.
in writing. − the mandatory labelling of meat, poultrymeat, dairy products, fresh fruit and vegetables and processed products from an ingredient, as required by the report on food information for consumers, represents an unreasonable burden on food processing undertakings. that is why i voted against the report on food information. in the european single market, food is produced across national borders. for example, in the dairy industry, a liquid product is collected and processed across borders. in this case, the separate marking of the batches to be processed from different countries is not technically feasible. european companies that have successfully positioned themselves on the world market are thus faced with bureaucratic obstacles.
in writing. - i have decided to vote for the summer report, as did the majority of alde. the liberals certainly did not win on all points. the adoption of the indication of origin also for meat and milk in processed products is regrettable because it imposes considerable costs on producers and seems to be difficult to implement in practice. however, i am clearly overwhelmed by the positive results of the vote: we now have uniform rules for food labelling throughout the internal market for the first time, without the possibility of national exclusive rights. i also think that a decisive success of this vote is that the misleading traffic light sign was rejected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not subject to any restrictions. the labelling system, which is uniform across europe, brings clear benefits to businesses and consumers: the fact that manufacturers will in future have to comply with a single regulation will reduce the costs of production and distribution. consumers benefit from a single nutrition label for product comparisons across europe
in writing. - mr president, i have to say something. i abstained from the eu 2020 opinion. of course, i too believe that we need to reform the eu institutions, improve coordination and also reorient content, for example, to demographic issues and innovation strategies. what i find disappointing, however, is the lack of commitment with which parliament has approached the financial market and the stability pact. the eu rescue pact is the safe way into the transfer union without the debt rescheduling option we are calling for. a 'no go' for responsible politicians in the member states. and the majority of parliament's refusal to give the commission more powers of control and sanction is, i believe, a relapse into national egotism. this is not a credit to the european parliament. the european union must not be allowed to pay for its mistakes. but no one should take away our right to make these mistakes over and over again. i therefore appeal to the view that we are creating automatic sanction mechanisms for financial misconduct. and we need an option for an orderly exit from the bailout fund with a debt rescheduling option. we must prepare such models today. because if you ask for it unprepared, it's going to cost you double and triple. thank you, thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support the call for an international inquiry, because the involvement of two international experts in the israeli inquiry will certainly not be considered sufficient in my view. such an investigation must then determine in its findings whether this action was in breach of international law. i therefore suggest that we save that assessment for the time being and not include that judgment in this resolution. the fact that this flotilla was able to leave on such a scale and was not only manned by extremists or notorious opponents of israel has something to do with the untenable humanitarian situation in gaza. we therefore call for the blockade to be lifted for the sake of the people and not to legitimize hamas. israel has not achieved its objectives. it has been said that gilad shalit is still being held by hamas. the people of gaza have not risen up against hamas either, but rather the opposite have become radicalized against israel. this is not in israel's interest either. the fact that the palestinians are willing to cooperate with abu mazen does not strengthen his position vis-à-vis hamas in the eyes of his compatriots. i hope that at today's meeting of the israeli government, minister herzog's announcement yesterday that the blockade will be eased as a first step will be implemented. a negative list must replace a positive list, i.e. in principle the frontier must be opened to all materials and goods, except for weapons and materials which can be used to make weapons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we commemorate the victims of 31 may and offer our condolences to their families. i want to make this clear to all those who consider themselves friends of israel. friends let friends of blind eyes continue to pursue a wrong policy. the action of the israeli government, which we rightly criticize, was disproportionate, not only unfortunate, but wrong in every respect, and totally unworthy of a modern state governed by the rule of law. it seems to me that there is a blockade not only in the gaza strip - there is a physical blockade - but there is also a political blockade in jerusalem, because the relationship between short-term military success and long-term political damage has been completely misjudged in jerusalem once again. what can we europeans do? the commission of inquiry should be national, i think, but israel cannot have any interest in having another goldstone ii inquiry if this commission of inquiry does not work sensibly. the european union must reopen its border mission, and it must have a more robust mandate, an extended mandate, so that real control can take place when we as europeans are back there. this is important, but it is also important to influence hamas: gilad shalit must be released and the rocket fire must stop.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i share the criticism of israel's actions, as expressed by my colleagues, for example mr salafranca. but if europe wants to be a relevant player in the middle east, then it must also want to remain a partner of israel despite all the criticism. that is compatible with criticism, but not with hatred of israel and hostility to israel. i am sorry to say that i have heard some voices expressing such hatred. for example, if someone accuses israel of a long list of crimes, but cannot find a single word for proven crimes of hamas, i do not think that is acceptable. if someone accuses israel of genocide, i do not think that is acceptable. or if someone says that because of the things we criticize, it is becoming more and more difficult to recognize israel's right to exist, i think that is unacceptable. we must be careful not to make the mistake of going into a corner which is destroying europe morally and rendering it practically ineffective.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, high representative/vice-president of the commission! it is the eu's stated policy to lead the fight against torture worldwide, and much is being done to do so through the implementation of the eu anti-torture guidelines or the eu export ban on instruments of torture. but it took an ngo report to alert the commission and parliament that this export ban has loopholes that need to be closed immediately. how did you do that? the resolution on which we are voting tomorrow contains enough proposals to that end. it is completely incomprehensible, however, that the resolution refrains from naming individual eu countries which have either not yet submitted a report or for which non-compliance with the export ban has been established. the eu's own human rights standards are increasingly being looked at from the outside, says lady ashton's latest eu human rights report. that is right, and that is understandable. we must pursue a consistent and self-critical human rights policy, and the first objective of the policy must not be to make our own region appear in a good light, if we are to remain credible.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, this debate on korea is most timely. i am aware that the parliamentary delegation has just come back from a visit. the republic of korea is a key, like-minded partner in an increasingly important part of the world. it is also an emerging global player, hosting the g20 summit in november. our bilateral relationship is developing swiftly. we recently completed negotiations on two linked agreements: an ambitious and comprehensive free trade agreement and an updated framework agreement. the framework agreement, which we signed last month, provides a basis for closer cooperation on major political issues such as human rights, non-proliferation, counter-terrorism, climate change and energy security. our relations with north korea are of a different character. with respect to the nuclear issue, which is very serious, the eu fully supports the six-party talks. we have made it clear that progress on denuclearisation is a ‘pre-condition’ for improving wider relations, and of course we are implementing the sanctions under un security council resolutions 1718 and 1874 in a robust manner. in the present circumstances, we are not providing normal development aid, but we do offer humanitarian-type assistance, targeting vulnerable areas and groups, and we use our bilateral dialogue to press on all issues of concern. on human rights, where the situation is dramatic, the eu has initiated strong international condemnation, including at the un. we have stated that improvements on these issues would lead to improved bilateral relations. so far, the response has not been what we have hoped for – but i still believe that frank dialogue is the best approach. on 26 march we witnessed the sinking of the cheonan, with the loss of 46 lives. this shocking event has further increased tensions on the peninsula. the results of the investigation into the sinking have been very disturbing, in particular the evidence of north korean involvement. based on these findings, i have fully condemned this atrocious and irresponsible action. the government of the republic of korea has kept us fully informed on its handling of the case, and it has underlined that the eu’s position matters greatly to them. i have discussed this matter directly with the foreign minister and i have commended the restraint of the authorities of the republic of korea. we are continuing to consult closely with them and other interested parties on the appropriate response to the findings of the report. in this context we support the referral of the case to the un security council, as done by republic of korea on 4 june. despite recent setbacks, it is important for all countries concerned to step up efforts to promote lasting peace and security on the korean peninsula. honourable members, the european union will play its full part.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is good to hear the high representative here in parliament. high representative, we feared you would become a budget expert or an expert on the treaties, and we welcome you here as our prime representative in foreign politics. wir unterstützen voll und ganz ihre position, was die deutlichen worte in bezug auf die versenkung der südkoreanischen fregatte betrifft. es war außerordentlich wichtig für unsere partner in südkorea, eine so klare position von der europäischen union zu hören. sie erwähnten das rahmenabkommen von koreanischer seite. wir sind ja gerade erst als delegation aus korea zurückgekommen. dort wird die strategische partnerschaft sehr ernst genommen. wir haben auch das signal empfangen, dass von koreanischer seite ganz konkrete schritte entwickelt werden sollen, um das rahmenabkommen wirklich mit leben zu füllen, und insofern möchte ich noch einmal deutlich sagen, dass die zusammenarbeit zwischen dem parlament und ihrem kabinett sehr gut war. sie wissen, wir haben darauf verzichtet, nach nordkorea zu fahren. das erfolgte in enger abstimmung, weil wir uns in dieser frage sozusagen mit der hohen vertreterin auf eine linie begeben wollten. wichtig erscheinen uns zwei dinge: wir müssen das freihandelsabkommen dieses jahr verabschieden. wir haben auch deutlich gemacht, dass der lobby-druck der europäischen automobilindustrie in dieser größenordnung nicht hinzunehmen ist. wir müssen die bedenken, die es von einigen seiten gibt, im parlament ernsthaft verhandeln, aber es ist nicht hinnehmbar, in welcher weise der druck auf das parlament aufgebaut wird. in dem zusammenhang wäre es natürlich wichtig, dass wir jetzt von den mitgliedstaaten wirklich den text bekommen, denn der lobby-druck ist da, und das parlament ist auch willens, dem entgegenzustehen. aber wir müssen mit den lesungen im parlament beginnen, damit wir bis ende des jahres in der lage sind, das freihandelsabkommen zu verabschieden.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. the resolution we have drawn up is important and correct. she's demanding an explanation for the sinking of the ship and an improvement in inter-korean relations. the resolution also calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. we have just discussed this afternoon that a coherent, credible european foreign policy requires that human rights be systematically and consistently placed at the centre of all its activities. in the case of north korea, this means, among other things, addressing the fate of over 200 000 political prisoners, criticising the system of clan detention and the use of torture, and we must not be indifferent to the fact that large sections of the population are malnourished and even starving. the eu must call on north korea to cooperate with un human rights bodies and it must actively and very intensively work for the un to set up a commission of inquiry to comprehensively document and assess the past and present serious human rights violations. anything else is untrustworthy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make this clear once again to mrs lochbihler: the groups in this parliament have agreed not to include the issue of human rights in the resolution because: a) we are waiting for a report from the subcommittee on human rights and b) a whole series of other questions have been tabled, namely on the death penalty in south korea. the agreement was to put a joint urgency on the subject in july and, accordingly, to submit the subcommittee's report as soon as possible in september or october. so this was not a political maneuver. we take this very seriously. we went to korea as a delegation with members of the subcommittee on human rights, and we raised these issues very clearly. this is not a political maneuver. we cannot always make these omnibus resolutions, where we include every issue, but we should give the issue of human rights its own urgency and its own importance.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, can i first of all thank mr ehler for leading the delegation to korea – it is very important – and also thank him for the words about my office, who are extremely hard working. i am glad that the collaboration has been so good. i too support, as mr ehler will know, the free trade agreement with south korea, not least because i partly negotiated it. i think it is a 21st century free trade agreement that will be enormously beneficial to the economies of the european union and to our partner, south korea. if ever there was a moment that we should ratify this, i believe it is now. i also recognise that we want to focus our attention in terms of north korea as mr vigenin, mr kacin and mr cutaş just said and on the six-party talks and the importance that we should give to seeing those talks continue and become successful. i accept the need there is for making a priority of the relationships that we have and the opportunities that the european union can bring to it. my only small plea is that i hope i will soon have an external action service that will actually be able to carry out the priorities which parliament has quite rightly and appropriately set for me within this. i am very conscious too, as mrs lochbihler, mrs rosbach and mr tannock said, of the importance of engaging china or russia, other key global actors, in the work that we do. this is one of the themes that we are developing in the service: how to use our strategic partnerships in order to try and put leverage and work together to resolve some of these important and very difficult issues. i also agree with all those, as very vividly expressed by mr helmer, mr zemke and others, on the human rights situation in north korea. it is nothing short of appalling. we are doing what we can to support them through humanitarian aid and by putting pressure on, but you already know the difficulties and challenges. mr sógor, what i would say to you is that, in terms of human rights, we need to be vigilant inside and outside of the european union. finally, i share completely the outrage on the incident of the sinking of the cheonan. i have spoken to the foreign minister face to face about this and i have expressed by outrage in everything that i have tried to do and i have joined those finally in expressing my condolences to the family and friends of those who were on board and who lost their lives.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is a pleasure to start with cathy still here when we were both just discussing a couple of messages that could be shared with you. i wish to thank the european parliament for the opportunity to make this statement on bosnia and herzegovina at this crucial moment for the country. i share your views regarding the situation in bosnia and herzegovina. the political situation has deteriorated and reforms are progressing slowly. 2010 is an election year and some political leaders are engaged in divisive rhetoric. in addition, the economic crisis makes the situation even more difficult. on the other hand, stability and security are not at risk, according to the reports of eufor and eupm. let me reassure you that, in these difficult times, the european union stays fully committed to bosnia and herzegovina’s european future. i share this personal commitment with the high representative, baroness ashton. our goal is a stable bosnia and herzegovina, firmly on its way towards the european union and we will provide all our support to reach this goal. however, it is up to the country’s authorities to use all available tools and to make all possible efforts to make this happen. otherwise, the country risks falling behind the rest of the region. we can both say – cathy ashton can be a witness – that the high-level meeting in sarajevo on 2 june reaffirmed the unequivocal european perspective for the western balkans based, firstly, on meeting the copenhagen criteria and, secondly, the conditionality of the stabilisation and association process. the high-level meeting was also an opportunity for the european union to underline the importance of regional cooperation and to encourage positive steps towards reconciliation to be undertaken by neighbouring countries in the region. together with all european union interlocutors, the commission will continue to work for the transition from the office of the high representative towards a strengthened european union presence in the country once the conditions are met. this will of course take into account the broader planning on the external action service based on the implementation of the lisbon treaty. let me underline one particularly important point here. the dayton agreement needs to be fully respected and bosnia and herzegovina’s territorial integrity is a part of it. challenges in this regard are unacceptable. as a matter of priority, the european union also expects political leaders to demonstrate responsibility by bringing the constitutions into line with the judgment of the european court of human rights. further constitutional amendments are needed to make bosnia and herzegovina a more functional state, but also to comply with article 2 of the stabilisation and association agreement. i have asked prime minister špirić to set up an institutionalised body on constitutional reform that could remain operational after the elections. indeed, as mentioned in your resolution, joining the european union means accepting its rules and values. all western balkan countries and european union member states will organise a population census in march 2011. it is urgent that bosnia and herzegovina adopts census law. the 2011 census is crucial for promoting social and economic development and for european union integration. the commission is prepared to provide additional technical support and be actively involved in the monitoring of the census. the parliament in bosnia and herzegovina is still discussing the draft law on census. the commission has organised numerous workshops and meetings with members of parliament, ministers and civil servants to explain the importance of the census and urge them to agree on it. in this challenging environment the commission continues to promote reforms through a continuous dialogue with the authorities. the stabilisation and association agreement is likely to enter into force before the end of 2010. in order to meet its commitment under this agreement bosnia and herzegovina needs to establish viable government structures able to adopt and implement european union compatible laws. as regards the visa dialogue, the commission proposal presented on 27 may maintains only a limited number of outstanding requirements. visa liberalisation is a proof that political consensus brings tangible results. as soon as our assessments conclude that all benchmarks are met, the european parliament, and the council will codecide on the commission’s proposal. let me conclude by underlining that it is important that we all continue to press for a responsible leadership and to give concrete evidence to the population that their future is in the european union. the resolution presented by mrs doris pack is a positive step in this direction.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the report on bosnia and herzegovina has many aspects, and i can only mention a few. the european perspective, which the commissioner has also mentioned, is clearly the lowest common denominator in bosnia and herzegovina. however, in the last four years, bosnia and herzegovina has not come much closer to this goal, as the country's politics and politicians drift apart, especially between the two entities. the first sees itself as a state within a state, the second has a structure that makes it impossible for the individual levels to function. there is no common market in this country. there is no common power supply. there is a lack of common institutions. the constitution of the country, which the international community drew up in dayton, is not a good basis for this functioning rule of law. it is also contrary to human rights, as the judgment of the european court of human rights in strasbourg has made clear. we also want greater involvement, commissioner, from the eu, if necessary sanctions by the eu institutions. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the gentlemen in bosnia and herzegovina are used to other tones. they have different tones to us. you have already mentioned visa liberalization, and we very much hope that it will come about. the fight against crime and corruption is far from being won, and in some cases has not even started properly. unfortunately, administration and politics are also part of this corruption. this, along with the weak judicial system, is deterring investors and preventing the creation of new jobs, especially for young people. which brings me to education. it is unfortunate that the structures are outdated, they are inefficient. the nostrification of diplomas, the recognition of qualifications - all this is a big problem. there is much more to be done, including at the state level. they don't even participate in our programs because they don't have the necessary know-how. that's why we should help them. local politicians are standing in the way of the return and integration of refugees. there are prime ministers who say: "come back!" but the local politicians don't put up electricity, they don't give water, and so the refugees go home. so there's a lot of work to be done, and i hope you can help them do it. the citizens of this country deserve it and they need our support, because their future should be in the european union.
i have to say, madam president, fifteen years after dayton, bosnia and herzegovina has not made much progress, despite some limited progress. that's why we shouldn't lie to ourselves. if you say that dayton is fine in principle, you just have to apply it and you need better politicians, then that's not true. the structure of bosnia and herzegovina is not functional as it is. bosnia and herzegovina must be transformed into a true federation of three peoples with equal rights. instead of many small, rigid cantons, there must be larger, more efficient and mixed-national regions. the central organs of the state must of course be strengthened, and the minorities must also be strengthened, since they must have basic human rights, as the strasbourg judgment has shown. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but this reform must come from the forces within the country itself, and we can only support them in this. here is the big problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must therefore do everything we can to train young leaders in this country, and i welcome one of the main points of mrs pack's excellent report, which is the cultural and educational aspect. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. bosnia and herzegovina is a country which has not only stood for violence but also for a particularly exemplary tolerance! a tolerant european islam has emerged here. it was here that the first islamic law in europe was established in the austrian era, and it remains a model to this day. there was a lot of peaceful coexistence here, too. the bosnians can be proud of their history, and if they can develop some of that spirit and carry it into modern europe, then i believe that 2010 can indeed be a positive turning point for bosnia and herzegovina!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not commissioner, you have presented this agreement, which has been in existence so far, and you have also indicated that there is some progress. we in parliament are a little more conservative than you have described it, as you have heard. it is generally agreed that it is important that these agreements exist at all. we have a good 60% of the world's air traffic together with the united states, which is an important partner for us in general. the problem is, in a partnership, there should be a level playing field. we cannot talk about a level playing field in a partnership when the united states can have 49% of our market and we can only have about 25% of our market. it is quite clear that this is an imbalance. we went to the united states with a small delegation this spring and negotiated there too. we were told that if we wanted more market access, we would have to allow more night flights and ensure that noise regulations were handled differently. we have explained that this is a matter of subsidiarity. that too must be respected. in fact, we can only negotiate further matters if we are more or less on an even footing. four points were mentioned: environment: we can still achieve a lot together through emissions trading, precisely because we have such a large share of the world market. social standards: a lot has been done, passenger rights have been mentioned. competition: there is still a lot to be desired. as for security, i'll get right to the data: americans have a different idea of privacy than we do. we are rightly demanding that our privacy be respected. we've been looking at body scanners in the us. it is quite common there to see a full-body image with only the face covered. that would be unthinkable in our country. we definitely want privacy to be protected, data to be protected. that's something to be respected. we, as a parliament newly strengthened by lisbon , would like to negotiate all this with you!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. they have now come from the air to the railway, which is our second topic tonight. i must say that it is often the case in politics that one has nice words, but that the deeds then leave much to be desired. we have in this case. we have many great objectives in the european union. we have achieved some things, and some things have not yet been achieved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market. we had resolutions, and you have to ask yourself: is the european union a toothless tiger? or perhaps we do not have the right "sales", as they say in german, to bring what we want closer? the competition in the railway market has been very different so far. we want independence for a regulatory body. in germany, in this case, our railway system has worked quite well, but that does not mean that it is the best. we really need a way to independently distribute the tracks so that it runs reasonably and competition can really take place. that's the one thing. it is a shame then that of the 27 member states only the united kingdom, finland and the netherlands have implemented it, while two which do not have railways - malta and cyprus - have not been able to do so. everyone else hasn't done their homework and they've obviously done well because we haven't warned them. that is why it is very important that the european union actually takes appropriate sanctions mechanisms, otherwise we will not be taken seriously. it is also important to make it clear to the member states that everyone benefits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but if action is to follow, it's a long way off. we must make progress on the financial side. the last time we were in zaragoza, we found that there was a shortage of money everywhere. and our task could be to promote crossborder projects, and we must of course appeal to the member states to do more. we know that it is difficult everywhere at the moment, but europe needs this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the first railway package had to be implemented as early as march 2003. but 22 member states have not yet done so. the commission did not act until june 2008. the european parliament therefore has a strong remark to make to the 22 member states and to the commission, the guardian of the treaties. the independence of the regulatory bodies and the separation of the network and the operation are necessary. the prices of the routes shall be fair, equitable and transparent. let me give you an example from my home country, germany. in berlin, the fares for the s-bahn are twice as high as in hamburg. and in hamburg, they are twice as high as in the rhine-main area. this is not fair, it is not just, it is not transparent, it is pure arbitrariness, and you have to act! the opening up of networks and reciprocity are also necessary. it is not possible to protect railway undertakings from competition at home and participate in it in other countries. here again, the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is called upon to enforce the law in force. but it is not just fair competition on the railway that is necessary. unfair competition in road and air transport must be stopped immediately. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's railways are not affected by the introduction of the single market. in slovakia, the highest tolls are on the railways and none on the roads. it promotes displacement, but in the wrong direction. the subsidies for the climate killer air transport are also fatal, even though the emissions in the stratosphere are three to four times as dangerous to the climate as those on the ground. the european environment agency estimates that subsidies to air transport are worth more than €30 billion each year. while the diesel locomotive has to tax the fuel, kerosene is exempt. in international transport, railways are subject to vat. in the case of air transport, the states do not do this. in the case of emissions trading, the airlines receive 85% of the allowances as a gift, and the railway must purchase them 100% of the time. this is all crazy, and it has to change! to save the climate and to ensure mobility, we need fair competition. not only within the railway sector, but also between the different modes of transport. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, has a lot of work to do. if it does, it will have the support of the european parliament!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. congratulations on your new office. statistics on flood damage do not capture the human suffering suffered by those affected. some in eastern europe and today in france have lost all that they have earned in their lives. you're practically in ruins. some have even lost loved ones. these experiences are too bitter to be repeated over and over again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means, for example, that both the polish and german sides must stop any plans for expansion on the oder. this means that we must not only build dams, but also make room for flood pools, so that prevention remains the key word. the only reason why we greens support this resolution is that our negotiations have given greater weight to prevention in this text. but there are clear weaknesses: the fight against climate change has not been included in this resolution, and if we look at the study 'regions 2020', we see that in the future 150 million people will have to leave their homes if we do not act now to combat climate change. that is why we must put climate change at the centre of future european regional policy in order to prevent floods.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the floods. people have died in the floods, and our hearts go out to their families. villages, towns, and agricultural land and infrastructure were destroyed. the images on television have already been replaced by other images. the enormous damage, however, must be repaired with great effort. the european union must show solidarity with these countries in the repair of damage of this magnitude. after the floods of 1997, poland and other central european countries are once again affected by a flood disaster. we cannot yet regulate the weather, and floods are a feature of rivers at certain times of the year. but the questions we have to ask are whether, in the knowledge that these natural events can always happen, the right measures have been taken to prevent damage from such natural events and whether, for example, in landscape planning, the issues of sustainable disaster prevention have been duly taken into account. if aid is granted, it should first of all be for the livelihood of those directly affected by the natural disaster. but then, in international cooperation too, because natural disasters do not stop at national borders, more should be done to prevent damage from natural disasters by the member states, coordinated at european level. the fact that joint precautions can provide protection is shown by the flood protection system on the oder, which has so far been set up jointly by polish and german authorities. however, we are not at the end of the road. we do not need european disaster protection. the protection of a country from disasters should be the primary responsibility of the government of a country, including the preparation of disaster plans. but coordination of aid in the event of damage and accidents should also be subject to efficient european coordination, and those organisations which provide aid on a voluntary basis quickly and unbureaucratically should not be left to their own devices. that is why i support commissioner georgieva's plans so that we can quickly make this a reality.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. our group welcomes the commission's statement that we are committed to maintaining the moratorium on commercial whaling. it is now up to the council to confirm this statement and above all to ensure that the 27 member states speak with one voice. there is danger in delay. we know from the meeting of the environment ministers that we disagree. there are some member states which have different interests than the vast majority. the treaty of lisbon should enable us to get used to the fact that we are speaking with one voice in our foreign policy, in representing our values and interests in international organisations, and not each for himself as in the past, which has led to europe being weakened in the long run. we have seen this before at the cites conference. there was a disagreement, and then there was a kind of powerlessness. we didn't get what we wanted. i do not wish that to continue at the international whaling conference now. 2010 is the international year of biodiversity, which means that the protection of ecosystems and endangered species is at the heart of our efforts during these months. it would be a very bad sign if the moratorium were lifted at the whaling conference and commercial whaling was allowed to resume. we know that this species is still vulnerable. the oceans are increasingly polluted, and climate change will bring new pressures. so we have to be very careful about this. the commercial interests of japan, iceland and norway cannot be the main concern, but the protection of these species and their ecosystems must be our guiding principle. we see that the term 'scientific hunting' is being abused. apparently, japan kills 900 whales a year in the southern ocean under the name of "scientific whaling". this is a clear abuse and i fully support the concerns of the australian government, which does not want to allow this to continue. we should do what the commission has proposed here. the council is being called upon to establish unity here so that we can speak with one voice at this forthcoming conference!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the so-called compromise proposal which will be tabled in agadir next week is, in my view, totally unacceptable. a return to commercial whaling is a signal that the majority of the european public will not understand. i call on the commission and the member states to speak out against the re-introduction of commercial whaling at the meeting in morocco. on paper, of course, the compromise does not look so bad. proponents say that even fewer whales will be hunted than today. the compromise proposal provides for the introduction of quotas. let me say something from my experience in fisheries policy on quotas: quotas, especially when they are global, are being systematically undermined. look at the red tuna. here too, quotas are fixed year by year and systematically exceeded by a factor of several. there is another reason why the european union should oppose the compromise. it provides that only those countries that are currently engaged in what i would call semi-legal whaling will be granted quotas. that would mean that systematic rule-breaking is rewarded. we should not accept that. the proponents of whaling are very tough in their methods. japan has allegedly bought its votes even from poorer member states. this is another reason why the european union must reject the reintroduction of commercial whaling with one voice.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr guido milana, for his excellent report. with the dramatic overfishing of our seas and the ever-growing demand for fish products, alternatives to wild catch are needed more than ever. but aquaculture is only an alternative if environmental concerns are not overlooked. for me, organic aquaculture means that, for example, a low proportion of fishmeal in the feed must be sought. after all, it doesn't help our oceans much to catch four kilograms of wild fish to produce one kilogram of aquaculture fish. it is also important to avoid any negative impact on surrounding waters. there is also a lot of research to be done here. at the same time, we must ensure that fish farming does not become a cruelty to animals because of the high density of the workforce. i would like to stress the urgent need for maritime spatial planning. the coexistence of different interests such as aquaculture, fisheries, tourism and, last but not least, nature conservation must be well organised. all this has been expressed in excellent terms in our report. moreover, a strong european aquaculture sector is also a good thing from an employment point of view, as it can create jobs in our often disadvantaged coastal regions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr milana, on his report. in a world where fish stocks are declining and demand for fish and fish products is increasing, aquaculture is becoming increasingly important. the report highlights the important role of european aquaculture in supply and demand. the growth of european aquaculture has been shown to be insufficient. the community legal framework is one of the reasons why development in the european union has almost come to a standstill since 2001, while there has been significant growth in the rest of the world. the member states were clearly unable to persuade the commission to design the national and community legal frameworks in such a way as to allow the development of aquaculture in the eu to proceed dynamically. bureaucratic hurdles and a high administrative burden are the result of this legal framework. i therefore call on the commission to adapt the directives for natura 2000 sites as soon as possible so that sustainable aquaculture is also possible in these areas and can thus make a positive contribution to their management. a total ban on aquaculture in these areas is unacceptable. there are constant complaints about the excessive requirements in the compatibility tests for the establishment of new farms or for the extension of existing ones. it can't be like this. we also find that the damage caused by the voracious cormorants in many areas is threatening the very existence of traditional pond management. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the last point concerns aquaculture operators in developing countries. these must be made aware of the need for a quality policy and for stricter production standards, particularly with regard to environmental protection, hygiene and social standards in their production.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is very important that we have this debate in parliament about the future of aquaculture, and of course that we also see europe as a big consumer market. with 500 million inhabitants, we consume 10 million tonnes of fish and fish products and unfortunately can only produce 2 million tonnes of our own resources - whether in fisheries or aquaculture. that means a huge import and we need clear standards. but we also have to see that we keep our nature in balance. many speakers have already mentioned that natura 2000 and certainly also species conservation play a crucial role in this. but then, of course, conservation also refers to what is ultimately the basis of the fish's diet in the biological balance of the food chain. the cormoran is crucial. i would like to ask you very sincerely to discuss this problem with us in parliament. the management plan for the cormoran is essential. we have a million tons of fish in reserve, which are being consumed by cormorants, cone seals and even seals. these are reserves. we need to protect our aquaculture. it was very interesting to hear the regions from all 27 member states speak. mrs. damanaki, you were there. that was another topic. we must agree on how to overcome this problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the catch documentation system agreed by iccat and confirmed by us today is a step in the right direction, but it is far too late. it is not possible that we should wait until the population of an endangered species has declined to 6% before taking drastic measures. illegal fishing is a particular problem here. i still very much regret that the european union has not succeeded in achieving a better outcome in the cites negotiations. the iccat and other regional fisheries organisations need to act more proactively in the future. it is therefore important that we, as the european parliament, become more involved in these bodies and counterbalance short-sighted national interests. public interest in sustainable fisheries management is growing. this must be translated into a responsible policy. i can assure you, mrs damanaki, that the s&d group will support you in any activity which helps to preserve the bluefin tuna stock and to ensure the livelihood of the fishermen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i appreciate your concern, and you have chaired this vote very well. i have only one request to all the vice-presidents: do not wish them a good weekend at the thursday noon vote. we have urgent debates this afternoon, we have votes. these are full votes, even though many are already leaving. i would ask you not to leave the chamber until the end of the sitting, which is this afternoon at 5 p.m. have a good weekend.
the next item is the debate on the democratic republic of congo: the case of floribert chebeya bahizire.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr floribert chebeya bahizire and his cruel fate are not an isolated case. it is the tip of the iceberg, not just for the democratic republic of congo, but for africa as a whole. congo is a fascinating country. the waters there could make the whole continent fertile. the resources there could make the whole continent rich. the energy there could supply the whole continent, and a somewhat functioning rule of law would help all of africa to build a stable order. but unfortunately, the opposite is true. the congo is a huge hotbed of destabilization, which is exported to other countries, but which is also brought into the congo from outside. the european union must therefore focus one of its policies of development, rule of law and peace on the congo, because the fate of africa is being decided there. so it's right that our next big conference is held there.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission learned about the death of floribert chebeya bahizire with deep sadness. floribert was one of the most well-known active and vocal human rights defenders in the drc, leader of the organisation la voix des sans-voix, with whom the commission works regularly and which is one of the most respected human rights organisations in the drc. the circumstances of his death strongly suggest that such a loss might indeed be a murder that could implicate drc officials. accordingly, the death of floribert gave rise to strong reactions not only in the drc but also from the international community. the eu and a number of our member states, but also the united nations and the united states, have all expressed their concerns and urged a serious investigation in order to establish the facts and avoid impunity. the facts should be properly investigated and the perpetrators should be effectively prosecuted. president kabila has already expressed his wish to clarify the events; some suspects from the national police forces have been arrested and the head of the national police has been suspended until further notice. the drc authorities have also accepted a dutch offer of cooperation. a dutch medical team examined mr chebeya and should be able in the coming weeks to provide further clarification of the circumstances of his death. the drc’s initial response does indeed indicate that the authorities understand the need to promote an impartial, credible and transparent investigation. the european union, together with member states with a presence in kinshasa, will nevertheless follow up closely the developments on this issue with a view to encouraging the authorities to achieve rapid and concrete results. on a more general note, the eu would welcome the drc government stepping up its efforts to fight against impunity and is ready to support such efforts by helping the drc to uphold its human rights obligations and its commitment to the rule of law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on nepal.
member of the commission. − mr president, the drawn out stalemate in nepali politics is a cause of serious concern, and the commission is following the situation very closely. 28 may 2010 was the deadline for the promulgation of the new post-civil-war constitution. it is positive to note that the constitutional crisis has been diverted by extending the deadline by another year. however, many contentious issues continue to impede the drafting process, such as the nature of the federal structure, the integration of ex-maoist combatants and the integration of the two armies. there is still a strong risk that the country could descend into a vicious circle of disorder and insecurity. two issues – the writing of the constitution and the integration of the pla – are becoming increasingly complicated. unless there is a genuine desire for give and take, even one year will not be sufficient. where the human rights situation in the country is concerned, it is positive to note that the mandate of the office of the high commissioner for human rights’ official in nepal has been extended for another 12 months. the ohchr has monitored and reported on human rights and provided training and technical assistance to state institutions and civil society since it was established in nepal in 2005. with the recent death of former prime minister and former nepali congress chairman g.p. koirala, the high-level political mechanism’s fate seems uncertain, as it now lacks a consensus leader who could resolve disputes among the major political parties and drive the peace process forward. the eu has a key role to play in helping nepal through this difficult process. a number of heads of missions’ statements, as well as a statement by the high representative’s spokesperson, have been issued recently calling for all parties to come back to the negotiating table. the eu stands ready to support the government of nepal and help it rise to the challenges ahead. the eu should be prepared to assist in any process leading to a durable peace process. collectively the eu and its member states represent over 50% of the development aid received by nepal. the commission is contributing to the peace process by supporting the nepal peace trust fund. eur 6 million were committed last year and eur 22 million are planned for early 2011. so far the funds have been allocated for the maintenance of the maoist cantonments, including salaries for ex-combatants. it is becoming increasingly important to ensure that the people of nepal, whose expectations were raised after the 2006 peace movement, will receive the peace dividends they have been waiting for. working closely with the european union member states, the commission remains committed to pursuing all efforts, whether they are diplomatic, political or developmental, that may contribute towards a stable, democratic and peaceful nepal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on executions in libya.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. in 2007 and 2008, libya voted against the un general assembly resolution calling for a moratorium on executions, and repeated requests from human rights organisations also failed to produce official information. it is therefore very important to us that the names of those executed be officially announced. every execution is one too many. we are opposed to executions and the death penalty. they're inhuman and inhuman, and each one is one too many. so in our resolution we ask very clearly that we change that and make it public and that we now work together to make a change happen here. no more obscure figures, but open information about what is happening here, and a humane punishment for real criminals, but not an exaggerated punishment for those who are critical of the regime in tripoli.
before i give the commissioner the floor, i would like to say again that i did not want to address anyone personally and specifically. about half the staff read speeches. i'm not trained enough to see if the lamp is slow down. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. moreover, those who have written down their texts can give them to the interpreters in advance, which will make things easier for them. i now give the floor to commissioner dalli.
president of the european council. − mr president, this was the first meeting of the european council since i became its president that was not dominated by immediate urgency. it was a normal meeting and the decisions we took were of considerable significance, not least in terms of dealing with the ongoing economic situation and looking beyond the crisis at how we can improve europe’s long-term economic performance. we recently showed strong political determination in safeguarding the stability of the euro. i was happy to note at this meeting a similar resolve to enhance our long-term economic strengths and a commitment to a new european strategy for jobs and growth, including the europe 2020 strategy. building on the work of the commission and of the sectoral councils, we endorsed the five headline targets with which you are now familiar and which we consider to be crucial for increasing europe’s economic growth-rate – in itself essential if we are to maintain our european way of life with an ageing population and if we want to remain a world player. i know that some in this house and elsewhere have expressed misgivings and asked whether the europe 2020 strategy can produce better results than the previous lisbon strategy, generally held to have been insufficient. my firm belief is that it can. we have deliberately chosen to focus on a smaller number of targets rather than the plethora of targets that got lost in the lisbon strategy. they are vital targets and incorporate the social, environmental and educational dimensions that your parliament has rightly insisted on. we will focus relentlessly on those targets with ongoing work and annual reviews. there will be national breakdowns of targets, and not just europe-wide aggregates, thereby providing realistic yardsticks to measure national performances. above all, i have sought to achieve a situation where our member states have a sense of ownership of the process, so that they do not consider this to be something adopted in brussels – and subsequently ignore – but consider it to be an inherent part of their own economic strategy. i count on the european parliament to keep up the pressure for implementing the eu 2020 strategy. it has to be a vital part of how we assess the state of our union. i was pleased that, when your president addressed the heads of state and government at the start of last week’s meeting of the european council, you drew attention to parliament’s support for the europe 2020 strategy. that was very welcome. at the same time i know that there are some in this chamber and elsewhere who have expressed concerns about the method being used to implement the strategy. is it, as some have claimed, too much of an intergovernmental working method? i would simply point out that improving europe’s economic performance requires the use of a range of instruments, some of them a european competence and others a national competence. at a european level we can, and do, adopt common legislation for our common market on the regulation of financial services, on competition policy, on trade, on consumer protection and on other matters. we can also make use of the eu budget, in particular the structural funds and the research programmes. the role of the commission is pivotal in all of this. however, key aspects of our economic performance remain essentially a national competence, not least education. if we are to be successful we need to mobilise all levels of government in a common endeavour. according to the treaty – and i quote article 121 – ‘member states shall regard their economic policies as a matter of common concern and shall coordinate them within the council …’. this coordination is to be based on the european council’s conclusions and involves all the institutions with an input from both the commission and parliament. we are currently increasing the scope of this coordination just as we are increasing the scope of what we do through eu legislation, such as the banking legislation. both coordination of national policies and common action at eu level are required. the task of the european council – bringing together as it does both the leaders of the national governments and the president of the commission – is to determine the guidelines and political direction of both these elements. those who are seeking to pit the commission and member states against each other do the union a disservice. i might add that it is also somewhat facile to equate the european council with simple intergovernmentalism. it is now an eu institution. it operates within the framework of the carefully balanced architecture of the union as a whole, described in the treaties. it includes among its members the president of the commission. it now has – in its own president – someone chosen to work in the interests of the union as a whole and who is not simultaneously representing a national government. in any case we should not assume that heads of national governments are not capable of perceiving the wider common interest or that they are unaware of the fact that their own national interest is indeed to have a well-functioning union. coming back to our meeting of last week, the european council also took a decision which in my opinion is of equal importance to the europe 2020 strategy. this was the decision to establish a scorecard and a system of surveillance to better assess competitiveness developments and imbalances so that we can detect unsustainable or dangerous trends at an earlier stage. such imbalances have not been focused on in the past, partly because they were not identified as one of the maastricht criteria. yet they are of vital importance. indeed the current situation facing a number of our member states can be traced back to these imbalances. the euro was a victim of its own success. we forgot that the common currency needs convergence and reforms. errors were made at all levels of governance over the last ten years, and let us be honest, it is a collective responsibility. regarding the financial sector: our priority is to have a solid and healthy banking system. we have called upon the european parliament and the economic and financial affairs council (ecofin) to rapidly adopt the legislative proposals on financial supervision to ensure that the european systemic risk board and the three supervisory authorities can begin working from the beginning of next year. your contribution, the contribution of parliament, is vital and your responsibility is great in this matter. we also agreed that stress tests of the banks would be published at the latest in the second half of july. we ask the commission to quickly make proposals on naked short selling and credit default swaps. the european council agreed that member states should introduce a system of levies and taxes on financial institutions and we agree to explore and to develop with our g20 partners the possibility of introducing a global, financial, transaction tax. indeed we agreed a common position on a number of other items that will be dealt with at the g20 toronto summit where mr barroso and i will have the honour of representing the union. we also reconfirm the european union’s position on achieving the millennium development goals, in particular our development aid targets, by 2015. despite the economic crisis we also reaffirmed our willingness to progress further on climate change. we agreed, subject to certain conditions, to commence the accession negotiations for iceland to join the european union and welcomed estonia’s application to join the euro zone, both signs of confidence in the future of our union. we adopted a declaration on iran which underlined our deep concerns about its nuclear programme and asked the foreign affairs council to adopt at its next meeting measures to implement un security council sanctions and to accompany them with further measures. in doing so we proved that the union can have a common position on one of the most delicate issues in world politics today. the second part of the meeting focused on the issue of economic governance and better coordination of economic policy. i reported back on the work undertaken so far by the task force that the european council asked me to chair. a high degree of convergence is already emerging and i intend to complete the work of this task force by october at the latest. i will be meeting your delegation before and again after the summer break in order to ensure parliament’s contribution is fully integrated into our work. the european council welcomed my progress report and agreed on a first set of orientations. it approved the provisional conclusions and the stricter supervision of the budgets and competitiveness. there was agreement that we need to strengthen both the preventive and the corrective arms of the stability and growth pact; the system of sanctions for sealing the pact needs to be reviewed so as to have a coherent and progressive system. there was agreement on the european commission’s idea of the ‘european semester’, whereby member states will present their stability and convergence programmes by the spring of each year, thereby enabling a common review of the underlying assumptions and trends affecting national budgets for the coming years – of course taking account of national budgetary procedures. on this point, i should emphasise that it was never suggested that finance ministers should have to submit their national budget to the commission for approval prior to submitting it to their national parliaments. no-one would endorse such an infringement of parliamentary competences. the work of the task force is not finished. other ideas from the commission, of course, from the central bank, from your parliament and from member states from whom we have had nearly a dozen written contributions, are still to be discussed. some ideas might require treaty change – but that is a more lengthy and cumbersome procedure. we will give priority to those proposals that can be enacted more speedily and more easily. anyway, there seems to be an emerging consensus that we do not need to create new institutions for our economic governance but to make better use of those that we already have. while specific decisions will sometimes be necessary at the level of the euro zone countries – and when required i will convene a euro zone summit as i have done twice already – it is at the level of the whole of our union that the main aspects of our economic governance must be decided. whether we are in the euro zone or not we are economically interdependent and share the common ownership of the world’s largest market. that is the level at which the bulk of european decisions must be taken through the institutional structures and procedures of our union. in this context, in accordance with the treaty, the european council intends to fulfil its role of setting political directions and priorities for the union including economic strategy and governance. the economic challenges facing europe remain immense. we were very close to the edge of the precipice just a few weeks ago and we have not yet reached safety. we were right to provide the fiscal stimulus at the depth of the recession, but we must be careful not to reach a situation where fiscal deficits and accumulated levels of debt become unsustainable and begin to be themselves a threat to our economic recovery. the measures taken by the member states to reduce their deficit will not have a profound deflationary effect for the union as a whole if they restore confidence in the economy, thereby stimulating both consumption and investment. on the other hand, failure to correct unsustainable deficits would ultimately lead to a fatal loss of credibility and confidence with lasting economic damage. the measures taken are differentiated according to the varied situations of each member state and they are gradual. indeed, rather than the absolute level it is the direction and its sustainability that are important. provided we persevere i have every confidence that europe will turn the corner. i consider this meeting of the european council to have been a further important step in combating the crisis which started as a financial crisis and became an economic, budgetary and nearly a monetary crisis. we are drawing lessons from all of this and correcting the course step by step. i am confident that we will succeed.
president of the commission. − mr president, only a week ago we met in strasbourg to prepare for the european council and the g20 summit in toronto. in front of this house i said that in the face of the current economic problems growth is the answer and that this growth has to be smart, sustainable, inclusive, that it must build on fiscal consolidation and structural reforms and that, for this to happen, we need to advance on several fronts at once, namely: by adopting the europe 2020 strategy; by rapidly concluding the remaining work in financial market regulation and supervision; by coming forward with ambitious measures to enforce our economic governance in europe; and finally by entering the g20 meeting in toronto with a strong and united european union position. i am glad to say that this was the path taken by the european council last week and that happened largely on the basis of proposals put forward by the commission. the european council reached exceptionally substantive conclusions as we took decisions on strategic orientations which point to the future and offer a vision. the result of the last european council went beyond simply adding up national approaches. it delivered a true european perspective in three areas in particular: economic governance, financial regulation supervision and, of course, in everything that has to do with our future european strategy for growth and jobs, europe 2020. first, economic governance. though this is still work in progress, the outline of what is needed is now clear. you know that the commission set out some ideas in its communication of 12 may: a european semester to bring together surveillance of structural and fiscal policies; making the provisions on debt work effectively; more creative use of carrots and sticks to help the stability and growth pact head off future problems and correct them when they arise; ensuring that national budgetary frameworks are set up in the right way to respect treaty obligations; broadening economic surveillance to tackle macroeconomic imbalances and comparing those problems in the internal market so as to cover the full range of key issues and not just look at the budgetary dimension. we now have a european consensus that this is the way forward. the next steps are for the task force chaired by the president of the european council to take this consensus and translate it into detailed action. with this in mind, the commission will next week put on the table some ideas for concrete further action and we are already working on the detailed proposals. we will have these on the table by the end of september because i believe time is also extremely important here. the second key area where we reached important agreement was financial services. we all know that the job here is not complete and we all know how important it is to have the right regulatory basis for sound responsible financial services, to give confidence that we have the bulwarks in place against future pressures. here of course the role of parliament is essential. as i did with heads of state and governments last week in the european council, i would likewise appeal to you to make every effort to ensure that the proposals on financial supervision are adopted before the summer break so that the new arrangements can be in place for next year. the same urgency is there for alternative investment fund managers and capital requirements. i was delighted that the european council took up the target in our 2 june communication to have the next phase of financial services proposals agreed by the end of 2011. issuing these proposals will be a major focus of the commission’s work this autumn and i am sure that parliament will be ready to give the speedy attention needed to this very important initiative. i also believed that it was particularly important for the european council to agree on a proposal for an effective and coherent approach on the stress testing of banks. making the results public on a bank-by-bank basis is the right way to use transparency to fuel confidence and prevent the speculation which distorts the markets. we will know exactly what problems still exist and exactly how they will be tackled, and, as i said in the european council, the commission will stand ready to make whatever examination may be needed under our state aid rules in case interventions are necessary. another central strand of our action, and i think probably one of the most important conclusions of this european council, was of course europe 2020. this has now been accepted by the european council as a european union strategy for economic growth for the long term in the sustainable and inclusive way we proposed just a few months ago and to which this house has given substantial input. i am reassured that it has been possible for this approach to be agreed so quickly and in particular that we have been able to agree the five headline targets, including on education and fighting poverty. i would like to underline this point because, as you know, it was not evident at the beginning that the member states should also agree to share their action in terms of what are mainly national competences but which we can put together in a coordinated manner at european level. with this, the 27 heads of state and government have made far-reaching commitments. there should be full comprehension of the fact that leading a european member state is also leading one part of the european union and that there should be no contradiction between the important tasks of leadership. the strong and positive political impetus given by this parliament was extremely helpful in reaching this positive result and i want to thank you once again. i also want to thank the president of parliament because, in the first part of the work of the european council, he made it clear with strong european conviction how important it was to reach agreement on those matters. let me thank this house for the very substantial input which you are giving to the strategy and which, of course, i hope we will continue to give in the future because, as you know, work is far from complete. we still have to define some of the most important and critical issues regarding the implementation of this strategy. in fact we now face the hard work of putting the strategy to work: engaging people at all levels of society and in all parts of the economy. that is why i have welcomed since the beginning the idea that our member states should also have ownership of the strategy. it could not and should not be seen only as a strategy from brussels or from strasbourg. it is important that it is seen as a true strategy that mobilises our society. the commission will be coming forward with the flagship initiatives to drive the european dimension of the strategy, and working closely with member states to develop the national reform programmes. the success of the strategy will also rely heavily on the work of parliament in your own constituencies, with civil society, with national parliamentary colleagues and with the social partners and with society at large. this will be a real common effort for the coming months and years. this comprehensive economic approach gives us the strongest of platforms for the g20 meeting this week, a clear and united position which can offer the kind of leadership we have been able to offer to the g20 since 2008. in a joint letter, signed by herman van rompuy and myself, we have highlighted to all our g20 colleagues what are the priorities, what is the programme of the european union in this meeting. it is the first time the european union, separately from its member states, has put together a position regarding our priorities for global action and i think this should be welcome. we have action under way and we have a clear timetable for the future. that is the challenge we can take to partners worldwide. some of the matters are extremely controversial for some of our colleagues at the g20: for instance the issue of the bank levy and the financial protection tax. but it was in fact important that, at european level, we have reached a consensus on those matters. in conclusion, the success of last week’s european council shows how the european union is most effective when it concentrates on the priorities. when we face a new challenge we should resist the temptation to rush to set up new mechanisms, new structures, those kinds of institutional debates that never end. we should rather have confidence in the institutions we have, give them our support, and have confidence in our ability to deliver in just the way we saw last week. before concluding, let me congratulate parliament, the council and the high representative for the successful outcome of the negotiations on the external action service. the commission very much welcomes an agreement which clearly makes provision for a service which is part of the community system and largely follows the proposals that catherine ashton has put forward in agreement with the commission, working alongside the institutions and with the same rules of accountability as any other part of the european public service. i would like also to tell you that the commission worked hard with this house and the other institutions to ensure that the european external action service will be up and running as soon as possible. this was one of the important innovations of the lisbon treaty; we now have to make it a reality. the european parliament can count on the commission to defend community matters, as being the best way to deliver the results our citizens expect to see. i believe this european council did indeed represent very important progress for our european project. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the world of work. i would like to say first of all that i was a little shocked that you emphasized how normal the summit last week was. this is a continuation of the wrong method of the last week. we should not pretend that we have reached a state of normality in european cooperation when a summit is limited to six hours, so that the euro is not further brought down by a wrong word or a wrong phrase. that was the message that was being sent out in the halls of the council building, and it should not be your job to throw sand in our eyes in the present situation, for we can see that quite clearly. mr verhofstadt has already said that the european economic governance is not going well and that this can be seen in certain points. i would like to stress that. the financial control and the larosière report have been mentioned. mr barroso, mr van rompuy, how do you feel about the fact that after a year of debate we have now agreed on surveillance, but that the council is now simply refusing to give access to surveillance? the fact that this is to be done at the level of the member states is simply absurd. it is simply something that can be expected of you, especially when we give you such support here at european level. we could continue the debate on the regulations which the european parliament would like to see introduced: the ban on dangerous products traded on the financial market, at least the temporary suspension of trade. we could continue to discuss the handling of hedge funds and tax havens, we could discuss executive salaries and the insanely dangerous bonuses that are paid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr barroso, you thanked us for the united support we have given you as a parliament over the past week. i think that this is right, this commitment of parliament to the communnautaire method, but when i look back at what is happening with the financial transaction tax: i would like to believe that this is now being enforced within the framework of the g20, i would like to believe it! i can't wait to see you back from toronto. if you come back and cannot deliver, mr barroso, then please ensure that your responsible commissioner - there is supposedly a single european position on this, as mr juncker has repeatedly told us during the summit - finally delivers a proper proposal for the introduction of the financial transaction tax in the euro zone. it is possible, and if you do not do it, then you have used a summit just once more to mislead the european public about this good instrument. so the common policy in this area is not looking good. what about europe 2020? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. what do we have now? we have better words than in the lisbon strategy, but for the better words 'sustainable development', which we can hardly say enough here today, we lack all the instruments and, in fact, the money, just as in the lisbon strategy. what strikes me as a green person is that there is still no awareness that resource efficiency, energy efficiency, ambitious climate action can and should really be a driver of innovation. in germany, at the moment, people are celebrating the recovery of the automobile industry, because the chinese are buying so many large-capacity injection-glass engines from germany. and this in the face of the oil disaster, this in the face of the predicted failure of cancun. my god, nobody in europe has ever understood what sustainable development is!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the results of the european council meeting last thursday must be measured against the global and european challenges. are they able to eliminate the causes of the unprecedented crisis in european financial markets since the beginning of may or to take steps in the right direction? what proposals do they make to the european citizens and the financial markets to remedy the malfunctioning of the system? the council is quite clear that the banks, the instigators of the crisis, should be made to pay the costs and that their activities should be more closely regulated. i can only welcome that, but i lack the faith. firstly, they are adopting an international bank levy which is not unanimously approved even in the eu and is roundly rejected by some g20 countries. the implementation of this decision seems to be totally unrealistic. secondly, there is only one audit mandate for the introduction of a general financial transaction tax. i doubt that this will really calm the global financial players or even deter speculation or cause the g20 to take a decision on this. thirdly, in a financial and economic crisis, stricter measures against deficit-committers are more likely to dampen the recovery, restrict consumer spending and, in particular, force the weaker sections of society to tighten their belts. this is a further contraction of the state's revenue base. this in turn requires new austerity measures, which calls into question the overall financiability of the recently adopted europe 2020 strategy. and fourthly, the possibility of strengthening the revenue base of the states through an eu-wide financial market transaction tax, through eurobonds, eco-taxes, raising the taxation of high incomes and wealth, social fair burden sharing is not addressed. i find that remarkable. fifthly, the crisis is undermining the democratic foundations of our society. the eu's requirements for countries in crisis also contribute to this. social cuts, cuts in wages and pensions, raising the retirement age, reducing public services, all this is leading to a widening of the social divide and a growing number of poor people. i'm not happy about that.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is good and important that we all work together to promote growth and employment and also to try to eliminate the causes of the crisis. but our goal must also be to learn from past mistakes and avoid making them again. and there is one subject which i think is particularly important and which we must not lose sight of, namely the fight against poverty. i regret that the european heads of government were not prepared to implement the commission's proposals on poverty reduction swiftly and with commitment. finally, the signal from the council last week is that europe is not now taking care of the poorest and the poorest. the original objectives have been watered down, leaving three indicators and the reduction of poverty by 20 million people. that is not enough, there is also a lack of real will. we would have really liked the commission's proposal to reduce poverty by 25% to be accepted and pushed forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to support the motion by mr cohn-bendit on behalf of our group. we see it the same way. this is a highly sensitive, very delicate subject, on which it is certainly sensible to find a broad parliamentary majority. it would therefore be good if the report could be postponed and an attempt could be made to reach a possible consensus. that is why we support this motion.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken this initiative. the ripening process of fruit varies greatly. i can say for the epp group that our fruit is ripe for decision, and that is why we want this gallo report to be put to the vote and we will decide on it this week.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps you'd like to ask a question of our dear colleague, mr callanan. mr callanan, please tell us why it is easier for members to discuss zimbabwe first and which members it is easier for. this is an important decision for us. i repeat: what is the particular reason for preferring zimbabwe so that you can discuss it more easily?
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs mr cancian and ms ayala sender, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their hard work. i would like to reaffirm the importance of this legislation for each and every citizen travelling in europe, which includes every one of us here. i definitely share the view that the logic of the treatment of passengers in every mode of transport must be similar. central elements are: minimum rules on information for all passengers before and during their journey; assistance and compensation in the event of interruptions of journeys; measures in the event of delay; specific assistance for persons with reduced mobility; and independent national bodies for the settlement of disputes. the commission considers that the compromise obtained during the negotiations on maritime and inland waterways passenger rights with the council is a good one, and the overall objectives of our proposal are duly taken into account. let me particularly stress that parliament has succeeded remarkably in enlarging the scope of the proposal. i want to sincerely thank the european parliament and the council, and in particular the spanish presidency and ms ayala sender, for their strenuous efforts on this file. concerning bus and coach passengers’ rights, since the adoption of the council common position, informal discussions between council and the european parliament attempted to find a compromise agreement on the text. talks were difficult. major controversial issues are: the scope of applications; the provisions on liability and assistance to meet the immediate practical needs of passengers in the case of accident; and provisions to favour the mobility of persons with reduced mobility and disabled persons. the commission has been making great efforts to facilitate the compromise deal. unfortunately it was not possible to find an agreement, and the commission regrets that. a strong vote by the plenary in favour of a high level of protection for bus and coach passengers would be a good sign. personally i want to stay optimistic, and think that compromise in conciliation is still possible. the commission will strive to reach a balanced agreement in future negotiations between the ep and council under the belgian and hungarian presidencies, allowing for the general objectives of the commission’s proposal to be duly taken into account.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is a logical conclusion that, after we have improved passenger rights in air and rail transport together with the council and the commission here in parliament, we should now also be giving better passenger rights in the maritime sector - on inland waterways and in maritime transport in general. but it is of course necessary not to compare the cruise ship with the historic fishing boat. i am therefore very pleased, mrs ayala sender and mr cancian, that we have found a compromise so that derogations can also be applied, for example that claims for damages can also be made for passenger ships with more than 12 persons, but not if the crew consists of less than three persons. tourism is a major economic sector which we must always take into account. ferries operating over a distance of 500 metres - if the distance is less, these provisions will no longer apply to them in the future - sightseeing tours and excursions also play a very important role, and historic watercraft in particular. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is able to compete with the fleet of other member states. i thank all parties involved that we have found a good compromise solution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not it has been said: it is important that passenger rights are protected in europe, regardless of the means of transport used, and it is only logical that after air and rail transport we have now also taken care of passenger rights for ships and buses. it has also been said that unfortunately it has not been possible to negotiate both in the package as we had originally planned, because a compromise could be reached on the rights of shipping and the trilogue could be concluded, but unfortunately not on the rights of bus transport. i shall now speak first of all about bus rights, because i am also a shadow reporter there. i am very sorry that we have not succeeded in doing so, because we have already come very close in the trilogue with the positions of the council on the one hand and those of the european parliament and the commission on the other. we were concerned - and this is also very important - to protect the rights of passengers and, above all, to ensure that people with reduced mobility, with disabilities, can in any case also use transport, including buses. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that's also why this is so important, because in the future, we're going to have even more people with disabilities or reduced mobility, just by thinking about the fact that people are getting older. that is a very important point. of course, we must also take into account that consumer rights also mean having an offer, and that small and medium-sized companies, especially those offering bus travel, cannot afford everything. for example, they cannot provide full compensation and there is also the question of how they can cope with advance payments. we have already reached good agreements on these points, and that is why i regret that we have not reached a compromise. it is right, as the rapporteur has said, to take account of the rights of passengers on the one hand and the possibilities of transport providers on the other. i would therefore very much like to see some agreement reached in the next negotiations, because i agree with brian simpson that we cannot have left the buses out and arranged for other means of transport.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i shall confine myself to the cancian report for the time being. it is undeniable that passenger rights and thus also consumer rights must be implemented in bus transport. i would like to stress once again the problems facing small and mediumsized enterprises at the moment, especially from the point of view of the federal republic of germany. local and regional public transport cannot be separated, especially in rural areas, as they often serve a radius of about 50 km. secondly, it is not possible to advance benefits for smes without regard to the amount of the debt. the principle of liability has worked very well so far, and has thus kept fares stable. thirdly, i cannot imagine that late payments not due should be paid by the entrepreneur, just as liability can only apply to circumstances for which the entrepreneur is responsible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out once again that everyone is in favour of passengers with reduced mobility also having their rights. but when it comes to who gets preference and possibly cutting corporate profit margins, it's no, no, no. it is clear that disabled people are not the focus of attention and that needs to change. if we say, mrs wortmann-kool, that these are the small companies, then that is not true at all, because the large companies lobbied, they were against it. they're putting the little ones forward to protect their interests. we could compromise for the small ones, but in a general sense we must attack the big ones: they do not want to take into account the passengers with reduced mobility. this cannot be allowed to happen. these passengers must have the same rights as we do. we can be glad that we are not hampered in our mobility, which is why we need this solidarity for those of us.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament and especially ms jensen, rapporteur on intelligent transport systems, and all the shadow rapporteurs, for their excellent work and continuous commitment in supporting the commission in the legislative process leading to the its directive. at the end of the european parliament’s second reading of this legislative proposal i would like to reaffirm once again, and in the strongest possible terms, its political importance. its applications such as dynamic traffic and freight management, lane-keeping support and electronic tolling (e-toll) bring clear benefits to transport users in terms of reducing travel times and increasing safety. over the past 20 years the european commission has used various instruments to support the uptake of its solutions. however, the deployment of intelligent transport systems in road transport has been much slower than in other modes of transport, and its services have often been deployed on a fragmented basis. voluntary agreements and standardisation have failed to deliver significant progress in terms of deployment and use of such systems. therefore the commission has put forward an action plan and a proposal for a framework directive on the deployment of intelligent transport systems in the field of road transport and for interfaces with other transport modes. concerning this directive, the commission considers that the compromise obtained during the negotiations with the council is balanced, and that the general objectives of the commission’s proposal are duly taken into account. in this context i am particularly happy with the recommendation of ms jensen adopted by the tran committee vote on 22 june and i look forward to a positive vote and to the adoption by the european parliament of the its directive during tomorrow’s sitting. the commission is fully committed to the important work ahead of us in implementing the its directive. we will do so in close collaboration with all public and private stakeholders.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals. the directive on the introduction and use of intelligent transport systems in road transport, which is now finally before us, is of such extraordinary importance for road transport, because of its impact on the interfaces with other modes of transport, that i would like to speak of the beginning of a new era in transport. the directive aims to ensure the coordinated, focused and targeted implementation of the comprehensive action plan and to ensure that intelligent transport systems become an integral part of new types of vehicles and infrastructure. the first is that the consumer is concerned: intelligent transport systems will be introduced, but the date is not yet fixed, although i would have liked to have been more specific. secondly, they are a major contribution to making transport even cleaner, safer and more efficient, and they offer new opportunities for co-modality, i.e. for the linking of the different modes of transport. thirdly, they ensure a high level of data protection; fourthly, they serve to optimise the capacity of infrastructures; and fifthly, they provide a wide range of additional services for private individuals and businesses. intelligent transport systems fit seamlessly into the following report on the future of transport and also into the eu 2020 programme because they trigger large research and development contracts. the requirement of compatibility between new systems and with existing systems is in line with parliament's demands. on behalf of the epp group, i call on the commission to complete the standards and specifications for ecall as soon as possible, as well as all travel, traffic information and reservation systems, so that the widespread implementation process can really start quickly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i think dieter koch is right: intelligent transport systems are really the dawn of a new age. i've seen trucks talking to each other over the last year. it sounds crazy, but this is really the intelligent traffic management of the future, that trucks are actually able to detect, for safety reasons, by means of special equipment, if there is an obstacle in front of them, if a pedestrian in front of them is trying to cross the road, and they can then communicate this to a truck behind them, so that it brakes in time and prevents an accident. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. so you're told how fast you should go to avoid traffic jams. it's good for the drivers and it's good for having fewer accidents, and it's good for the environment. we need that and more.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner spoke of a european maritime area without frontiers. i think we all want it, we need it very badly, and this report is another step in the right direction. it is true that 95% of our exports are carried by sea and 40% of intra-european trade is carried by sea, including ports, and it is therefore obviously more than necessary to simplify and harmonize this area of the future. the report achieves both, and that is why it cannot be overestimated. i'm sorry that dirk sterckx couldn't get anything done. two points that were very close to his heart, and which, as you heard here, also carry a lot of others, are that one, that one should actually simplify the lottery approval process, because that would really make sense in practice, and the other, that there is no uniform language. i think english is really the right language. it is not acceptable that just because many seafarers speak different languages, accidents should happen, even fatalities. it would be much better to have a common language in this very environmentally friendly area of transport, just as in the air transport sector.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has already made a number of proposals. transport policy is of great importance for the protection of the environment, but also for the protection of human health. it is good that a european union strategy is being drawn up by 2020 to correct the many shortcomings of today's transport situation. we need a substantial improvement in the environmental performance of road transport. we need real innovation here to reduce co2 emissions, but also nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. we must also include air and sea transport more fully in the environmental strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the safety of ships. the increase in noise from transport is also a scourge for millions of people, affecting their quality of life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the safety of road transport. i would also like to mention the internalisation of external costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mobility has to change to stop climate change. transport is responsible for 30% of co2 emissions in the eu, and unlike industry or the insulation of homes, where we have achieved a 10% reduction since 1990, transport has increased by 35%. transportation is eating up everything that's been achieved in other sectors with billions of our taxpayers' money. transport is too cheap, only the environmentally friendly is too expensive. this is politically motivated, but that has to change as we look to the future of transport. the competition here is unfair. there is a compulsory toll for each kilometre of railway track, with no limit on the amount, whereas on the road the toll is voluntary and capped on the amount. air transport, a climate killer, is subsidised by some 30 billion euros every year. so if you're short of money, this is the place to start. the eu co-financing also encourages environmentally harmful transport. 60% goes to road transport and only 20% to rail transport and 0.9% to bicycle transport. this must change and that is why we call for the greens to invest at least 40% in environmentally friendly rail, at most 20% in road transport and at least 15% in pedestrian and cycling. we welcome and support the rapporteur's aim of achieving a 20% reduction in air and road traffic by 2020 compared with 1990. i congratulate you on your report and thank you very much. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport infrastructure is not affected by the effects of the climate change. we must all be committed to this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mathieu grosch for this profound report and for the enormous amount of work he has done. the european union is not a europe without borders, without a functioning transport system, and the european economy would not be successful, indeed unthinkable, without an efficient transport system, without efficient and future-proof transport systems on land, on water and in the air. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. a sustainable future for transport requires all modes of transport to address societal, environmental and economic challenges. the report provides valuable and indicative information on this. the only point on which i cannot agree with the report is that i cannot support the creation of a transport fund from cohesion policy funds. why would you do that? transport is certainly a major driver of cohesion in europe, but a separate fund from cohesion policy funds would not meet the expectations it raises, would unilaterally burden the cohesion fund and would relieve too much of the burden on member states, which are particularly called upon to ensure a sustainable future for transport. we have just set up a special committee in parliament to debate the future of the european union's cohesion and structural funds. its work should not be prejudiced. i therefore ask that the amendment to the report be accepted. i also think that when we talk about the sustainability and future of transport systems, we should also give magnetic levitation a future and an opportunity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am glad that we can adopt this report by a very unanimous vote tomorrow. two things are particularly important to me. first, the measurability of the targets to be achieved by 2020. we need a measurable foundation that allows us to take stock after ten years or better at half-time, to see if we have achieved something of what we set out to do, or if it has not yet worked and we need to improve. this is particularly true of co2 emissions from transport. if all the sectors are on the right track - mr cramer called it that - then we can rightly demand it of transport. the european transport policy is particularly important in reducing co2 emissions. the second point is the implementation of an efficient co-modality. this is the key to a sensible eu transport strategy. i say this because there is a lot to be understood by efficient co-modality. if we do not align this theoretical concept with the right criteria, which are then put into practice, we shall not achieve our objective. i would therefore like to make a further appeal to the commission: the details of the implementation must be correct, and that means that useful intermodal hubs must be developed, and that bottlenecks in the transport of goods to and from important european trade ports must be removed. this applies in particular to the inland connections to our major ports and airports. and thirdly, the ten core network that is being stimulated must be set up according to the same criteria, so that it allows a quasi-automatic 'modal shift' towards a more efficient and environmentally friendly european transport system. these are the factors that make for sound planning, not just economic efficiency, but also social, environmental and sustainable efficiency. dear mr grosch, dear magdalena alvarez, thank you for your good work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have had a real afternoon of traffic today, and this is basically the report that sums it up. many people say that the greatest achievement we have in europe for the citizens is the single market, and the veins of the single market - as our commissioner has already said - are the transport routes. that is why it is of course very important to ensure that safety is ensured, that development is environmentally friendly, and that we generally see what we can develop further, for example with intelligent transport systems. we also need to look at how we can make the areas that are more environmentally friendly, such as rail and also maritime transport, even better, how we can get more of the road there, how we can make maritime transport more environmentally friendly in terms of emissions. at the same time, we must also consider how we can take account of the special needs which are quite different in urban transport than in international transport. in urban transport, the future may lie with the manager who rides the e-bike and completes his fitness unit at the same time. of course, we need completely different variants for long-distance travel that work across borders. a good report and very forward-looking.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the right to petition is one of the most important rights of citizens of the european union. this will enable them to draw attention to possible violations of their rights or grievances in the european union. the number of petitions received is thus a good indicator of the functioning of the european legal system. i am therefore pleased that the number of petitions received was once again higher than in 2008, with some 1 900 petitions. but the citizens also have a right to an adequate, sufficient and short-term response. this means that we must work together to optimise our work and our internal processes. firstly, the so-called non-petitions must be eliminated more quickly. they are not part of the formal and extensive business. secondly, petitions for which we are not responsible must be rejected or referred more quickly. and thirdly, the members of the committee on petitions should enter into dialogue with the petitioners more quickly. the committee on petitions has a great opportunity here to make the european union a little more alive for the citizens. i think that we will make full and appropriate use of this opportunity in the near future. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for his excellent report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin with a personal but very important point. mr prime minister, political logic dictates that i rejoice when angela merkel is sad, and i usually share your joy. tomorrow night it will be the other way around, and then angela merkel and i will be cheering together, and i will have no pity for you. (applause from the centre) mr cohn-bendit will later make the best of his poor football skills, but now for the spanish presidency. mr president, the spanish presidency has achieved some outstanding achievements which i want to talk about here. the final success in the last few days of the negotiations on the european union's external action service, which were very difficult - and i want to make this clear here - was achieved in close cooperation with catherine ashton, through a lot of work by the colleagues in this house, but in the final phase it was the presidency that made the decisive contributions. this is a success of the spanish presidency. i would like to mention your foreign minister, mr moratinos, who has made a major contribution to this success. the spanish presidency has made a substantial contribution to the swift agreement. i would like to express my gratitude to alfredo rubalcaba, without whom the swift agreement would not have come into being in the form it is today. i would like to say to you, mr president of the commission, that if the apparatus of the commission, and in particular commissioner malmström, had prevailed, we would not have the swift agreement. this is a specific merit of parliament and the spanish presidency. i hope that we will be able to conclude the steps now needed to regulate banking and financial markets. we have made great progress in this area in recent days. we are not at the end, but i hope we can reach reasonable compromises and reasonable conclusions. we need a european lead. we also need them because we have seen that if europeans - and this is also a success of the spanish presidency - act in unison, we have a great opportunity to define european standards which we can also enforce internationally. let us look at the reality of the past fortnight. the speculative attack on the euro has been halted for the time being. what's going on? speculators see that the european measures protect the currency, they now turn to the us and speculate against the dollar. this would be a good argument for all those who were at the g20 summits to say to the president of the united states and others, don't think the capitalists are only after us. they go where they think they can make the most profit. this is the dollar now, but who knows, next time it might be the british pound or whatever currency. what we need is global regulation. if we now implement them in europe in certain areas, that is the right thing to do, because then we can implement them internationally as a strong european union. this is also a step in the right direction. mr president, i am grateful to you for the fact that you, as president of the council, have made it clear that we support the commission. i don't always get the impression that everyone in the council is like that. mr joseph daul rightly pointed to the defence of the community method. what we need is an alliance of the european institutions against this terrible tendency to renationalization, which is particularly evident in the european council. we must call the child by its name, and therefore thank you very much for praising mr van rompuy. i like him, too, but as a member of this house, i have to say that our point of contact is the rotating presidency. i have just given three examples where we have a rotating presidency - which is, moreover, led by politicians and not by any officials sitting in brussels - and politicians, as a rule - being ministers, they are also members of parliament - have a much better understanding of what is going on in a parliament than any official in a general secretariat, even if it is led by mr van rompuy. that is why i believe that the rotating presidency has worked. in particular, it is a direct point of contact for us as a parliament, with which we can solve problems directly in the concrete legislative procedures. one result of the lisbon treaty - which i also regard as progress - is that the european institutions, when they work together, when they see themselves as complementary to each other, can be much more successful than when they are - as is very often the case in the council - pushed against each other in an experimental way. the spanish presidency has been a successful presidency. thank you for your work, thank you for your attention.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not if football doesn't count, i'll make a football analogy now. the spanish presidency of the council seems to me a bit like the world cup of fernando torres: it started with high expectations, but so far it has been a somewhat disappointing tournament. i sincerely hope that this will continue tomorrow with regard to fernando torres, so that we do not have to go through another 2008. in economic policy, the spanish presidency has set itself a truly ambitious programme: eu 2020, tightening capital requirements for banks, regulating hedge funds, reforming european financial supervision. that was certainly the right approach in the crisis. i must say on behalf of my group that we are disappointed with the result. the council presidency is not so much responsible for the council as for the member states. we all know how diplomatic josé manuel barroso is. if he says that there has been progress but no breakthrough, then that is a very clear statement for him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. not when it comes to regulating hedge funds. the negotiations have stalled here because the council cannot agree on a common position, but action is needed here too. there are also problems in the council with financial supervision. do the member states really believe that in a common market for financial services supervision should be organised best at national level? the crisis has shown that this approach has failed. the council should not stand in the way of efficient european financial supervision. the taxpayer cannot and will not bail out the banking system again. the same is true of the eu 2020 strategy. the council is acting as if the lisbon strategy had not failed because of the wrong concepts. but that's exactly what it is. the open method of coordination has failed. here too we need more european cooperation. a successful strategy for jobs and growth must be based on the community method. the new strategy does not do this to a sufficient degree. this house has called for something else. if we do not want to lose prosperity in europe in the long term, we must become more competitive. this includes an efficient and promising growth strategy. this includes regulation and reorientation of financial markets, which will put more emphasis on financing the real economy. this includes effective crisis prevention and resolution in the form of a european financial supervisory authority worthy of the name and a european monetary fund. but it also means that the governments of the member states will finally get their budgets in order and that we in europe will coordinate our economic policies better. this cannot be a race to the bottom, it must be a race to the top, we want more competitiveness in more member states. in foreign policy, much more would have been achieved if spain had recognised kosovo. this has weakened the council's position on this issue from the outset. the us-eu summit and the union for the mediterranean meeting have been cancelled. let me make one final remark: my group has a very constructive attitude towards the negotiations with turkey, but to open a chapter in this way on the last day of the presidency, as a reward for the turkish vote on the un security council sanctions against iran, has also been criticised by the pro-turkey camp. i believe that the engagement with turkey must be different, more differentiated and committed, better thought out, rather than being forced to make decisions on the last straw.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the spanish presidency of the council was a six-month period of missed opportunities. mr zapatero came here in january like a bullfighter trying to bring the financial markets to their knees, and in the end we found that he had no quibbles. mr zapatero, the spanish presidency of the council has left no lasting traces. we had the impression that, with all the efforts of individuals, it was inert, largely without initiative, overall unsuccessful. we fully recognize that there were huge domestic problems to be overcome, and that the government may have been partly responsible for creating them. but instead of stabilising and leading europe in the financial crisis, spain has fuelled the crisis. in football parlance, you'd say he scored an own goal. i would just like to mention a few things. they said: 'we have remained faithful to the letter and spirit of the treaty of lisbon.' i doubt that. the rescue package is contrary to the treaties and to parliament's budgetary rights under article 352. the president of parliament has not even been involved. we do not have an agreement on financial market supervision and regulation, but we are working on it with the belgian presidency. we have not made any concrete progress on the stability and growth pact. these are the facts! and in economic and monetary policy, the monnet method, the community method, was buried on 9 may 2010. so it's not a successful balance sheet. they will leave no lasting traces, much to my regret. (the president agreed to reply to a question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you to be so kind as to also present the criticism you have made to mr zapatero to mrs merkel in this form. that would be a contribution to the internal coherence of your argument. (applause from the centre)
mr schulz, you are right. we are not here in the german bundestag, nor in germany, but we are discussing the spanish presidency of the council. and president zapatero said he did it in faith and in faith. reality is different. i will of course make this point - i have already made it to the president of the commission - to the french and german governments. but we are talking about the responsible president of the council here and not about internal political disputes in germany. we can still do that, mr schulz. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the spanish presidency has made history in the eyes of the budget controllers in this house. we are grateful to the presidency for having succeeded in bringing the discharge procedure for the council out of the realm of uncertainty. the council has so far refused to be sufficiently accountable to the european parliament. meetings were informal at best, documents had to be found or were not available, questions were not sufficiently answered. the council referred in all seriousness to an agreement of 1970, the so-called gentlemen's agreement, which supposedly clarifies the issues of discharge, although this gentlemen's agreement says nothing about it. now that's changed. the secretary-general of the council has agreed to launch a dignified discharge procedure in a clarified procedure that meets democratic standards. this success of the spanish presidency is a testament to the democratic and european spirit of the spanish government. she deserves credit for that.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank the commissioner for her presence. i am sure that there is a need for discussion in the spanish presidency of the council as it draws to a close. so what we had in swift as bulk data transfer, we have in mass gathering in parliament. well, unless it is. we as a parliament sent a very clear signal in february that the lisbon treaty not only gives us more opportunities but also, and above all, more responsibilities as the european parliament. we are co-governors, together with the commission and the council, at european level. the commission has been asked, and the negotiating mandate has been confirmed by the european parliament, to present an improved agreement and to re-enter the negotiations. i think it would be unfair to say that, with all the differences that may exist between the groups, and especially with the different priorities, the commission has not really made any progress. this is something that must be highly appreciated, especially in the context of the context in which she worked and the possibilities that were given. at the same time, however, the negotiations which followed have also revealed that the word 'impossible' appeared quite often. it was impossible to change certain things, to reopen the agreement. it was impossible to ask the united states for concessions, let alone for the european parliament to influence the council. if i have learned anything from this discussion, it is that the word 'impossible' does not exist in politics when there is political will. we have seen that the european parliament, in cooperation with the commission, has been able to get improvements in the text of the agreement. the commissioner has, following the initialling of the agreement with the united states, concluded that a key concern namely that european officials are on the ground in washington, monitoring the extraction of data and, if necessary, being able to block it in cases of abuse has been incorporated into the agreement, namely in article 12 (1). the transfer of aggregated data, mass data, so-called bulk data, to the united states was also an essential point across the political groups. this is something we have achieved in cooperation with the council and, admittedly, also with some pressure, that we are able to remedy this problem in the medium term. it will not happen overnight, but we have the clear admission from the commission, anchored in a council text where i can say as a footnote, this is unique, this has never happened before, that we have a council text with our wording can change that after a year the commission must present a technical and legal framework, how these data are extracted on european soil. at the same time, a progress report on the state of the system will be presented after three years. there is a link with article 11 of the agreement in this inserted part that the progress report should be done within three years, and article 11 of the agreement says that when the european union itself is working on a procedure, both parties the us and the european union must adapt the text of the agreement accordingly. that means we have the opportunity to go back in there without causing a sensation, without harming mutual interests. we have reached the conclusion that if after five years this system does not exist, it must be seriously discussed and then acted upon, that the agreement should then be terminated in accordance with article 21 (2) and a new one should be drawn up on the basis of what then exists. i would like to say, first of all, that those who are concerned about their personal bank details, their rent payments, their other transfers being transferred to the united states should also be concerned. there is no explicit national data transfer covered by the transfer of the data to the united states. and the intra-european bank data transfer is also largely not done via swift, but it is so-called sepa data, which has also been explicitly excluded from this agreement. so what is left is data from the european union to third countries, which is transferred to the united states and evaluated until we are able to do that ourselves. in conclusion, since i have a little time left after the round, i would like to say that this process has taught us that both the commission, the council and parliament must come together more closely and cooperate even better in the voting. i believe that we have shown, in the light of the developments which the treaty of lisbon has shown, what direction this can take, and we are aware, together with the commission and the council, of our responsibility to present a sensible solution. like i said, not everyone in this house is happy. but i would like to expressly thank the members, including those who will be against this, for their willingness to make substantive points. i would also like to thank the colleagues from the major groups who will be willing to join us in voting for this agreement on thursday for their cooperation and for the good cooperation we have had. as i said, i have a lot of respect for those of my colleagues who will be opposed because they have contributed very constructively to this process, but you will never be able to achieve 100% if you have four negotiating parties.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. good intentions are often the opposite of good. the way in which my predecessors from the conservatives, social democrats and liberals justify their proposed approval of the new swift agreement seems to me to be more of an 'offensive is the best defence' than a genuine conviction. the new swift agreement has not changed the substance of the criticism that this house has clearly expressed by a large majority in its rejection in february and its resolution in march. furthermore, vast amounts of personal banking data of mostly completely unsuspecting citizens are transferred to the us authorities and stored there for a full five years without any review by an independent judicial authority. the european union has also been asked to provide a report on the situation in the middle east. all this is not only politically incorrect and harmful to the protection of european fundamental rights, but also highly contrary to constitutional law in europe. the european court of human rights and national constitutional courts, as well as data protection officers, have declared the fundamental mechanisms of the agreement to be unlawful. we as the european parliament did not even manage to consult our own legal service before the vote. on this basis, we as a parliament cannot agree to such an agreement. the green group would therefore be in favour of a new rejection and of genuine negotiation of common principles with the united states before we extend the exchange of information to such an extent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a preliminary remark: approval or rejection, every decision deserves respect. however, exaggerations, half-truths and false statements, often uncorroborated by expert knowledge, are unacceptable, even in the published debate. i think that more objectivity, rather than emotion, would be appropriate. the fight against terrorism is also a defence of democratic values and freedoms. the first requires the use of data, the second a high level of data protection. it is here, under pressure from the european parliament, that much has been achieved: the verification of whether a request is indeed based on a legitimate terrorism suspicion, the daily checks by eu officials at the us treasury that only data on terrorism suspects are really being looked at, including the possibility of stopping this data collection. we in parliament are convinced that this important matter must be settled by agreement between all the institutions. compliance with standards must be reviewed annually, with the involvement of data protection officers, and there is an annual review of the five-year retention period to ensure that unnecessary data is deleted in advance. and once again, transfers within europe are not affected. however, not everything was achieved. the key word is europol. i would like to ask the european commission not to wait until 2013 but to come forward quickly with a legislative proposal to ensure parliamentary scrutiny through codecision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have two levels to discuss. one level has now been very much discussed, namely data protection. it is true that some things have been improved, but mass data transmission has not been abolished. what really bothers me most is that europol is actually given an extension of powers in terms of data protection - on what legal basis, we ask - and that is why i am voting against this amendment. but i also want to be very clear that there is another level that we need to talk about very seriously, and that is that even if we eliminate all the privacy issues, all of them, every single one of them, the question remains whether the principle of preventative banking data sharing of millions of people in europe actually helps to fight terrorism. i doubt that very much, and there is no evaluation, there is nothing to prove it. instead, citizens' surveillance is being introduced de facto, and i would remind you that the data protection commissioner does not see the need for such a system either.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i think that, after this discussion, there are two things that need to be remembered. the european parliament has demonstrated its willingness to cooperate under the lisbon treaty. president garrido said that he had underestimated the european parliament. i think he has, both in his willingness to cooperate and in his willingness to show responsibility. i believe that we have opened a new era in the field of eu legislation. i now turn to the colleagues who have just spoken against it. with all due respect to the denial, i expect the same respect for the truth. we have created a solution in the medium term to prevent the transmission of mass data. there was no provision in the agreement at all which legally guaranteed the cessation of bulk data transfers in the medium term. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is a certain amount of honesty involved, and i expect that in mutual respect as well.
in writing. - i am pleased that the report on the baltic sea strategy has been so widely adopted in parliament, and i thank the rapporteur, as my group's shadow rapporteur, for the constructive cooperation. the report reflects the multiple challenges facing the baltic sea countries and calls for the problems of managing environmental damage in the baltic sea, economic development and the development of transport infrastructure to be addressed and solved in transnational, macro-regional cooperation. russia, belarus and norway should be involved in this cooperation. interdisciplinary cooperation is needed, including in the european parliament's committees. this macro-regional strategy for the baltic sea is a pilot project. the success of the strategy will also determine whether the structure of a macro-region is a guide for future cohesion policy. the baltic sea regions, which are already cooperating with each other, but especially the member states, are now called upon to give life to this strategy. the european institutions, in particular the european commission, should play their role of coordination and support.
in writing. - stricter regulations for traineeships are undoubtedly important. the fdp in the european parliament has been working for this. often young people work for months without pay, hoping to get a steady job afterward. this is not a sustainable condition. internships must not destroy jobs. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. we think that's a false signal. it should continue to be possible to do, for example, a three-month unpaid internship. there are many non-profit or social organizations where a young person can have exciting and interesting experiences. however, such institutions are often unable to pay a trainee's salary. the main criterion should be the duration of the traineeship. for any traineeship lasting more than six months, the employer can rely on work performance. from then on, there should be a reward. the decision taken today is not practicable and is far from the goal. we therefore do not support this part of the resolution.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the own-initiative report on combating youth unemployment. in adopting the report, we decided to take a stronger stance against the abuse of trainee work. the european parliament has asked the commission and the member states to recommend minimum standards for traineeships. a european quality charter for traineeships is to be presented. i have been offering many young people the opportunity to do internships in my office in brussels or strasbourg for many years, and i am therefore in favour of promoting the internship status. in times of globalised labour markets and financial crisis, sound, practical training is particularly important. the traineeship is an excellent opportunity to learn about the requirements of working life and to test one's own skills. the conditions for this are that trainees work under fair conditions and that the focus is on training, not on replacing permanent staff. in addition to a description of the placement and the qualifications to be acquired, the charter should include working time limits and recommendations for remuneration. this is a clear signal to our young europeans.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the own-initiative report by pascale gruny on atypical employment conditions in the eu. with it we send clear signals to the labour market: atypical employment contracts must remain the exception in europe. the transition to permanent, protected and higher-quality employment must be created! the rapid pace of structural change is indeed making more flexible forms of work necessary. however, atypical contracts must not become the rule if they are linked to poor social protection or even targeted exploitation. the abuse of atypical employment violates the european social model. it varies from one member state to another and is the backbone of citizens' acceptance of responsible political action. not only in this year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and not only in the crisis after the crash of 2008, there is no alternative to protect disadvantaged groups. participation, fair working conditions and the safeguarding of fundamental rights must be granted to those disproportionately affected by atypical work: women, older and younger people. this requires proactive action at national and european level: a massive crackdown on undeclared work; reduction of precarious jobs; ensuring access to continuing training, qualifications and lifelong learning. the balance must be struck between productivity on the one hand and the protection of workers' rights on the other.
in writing. - atypical employment is growing rapidly in the european union. the analysis in the pascale gruny report is therefore good and welcome. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. for example, cameramen and technicians in film teams are declared to be independent professions, although this is a dependent relationship. the report, however, lacks the political steps necessary to grant the workers concerned rights in their situation, such as pension rights or representation rights. we therefore continue with our alternative resolution. we demand that equal rights should apply to all employment relationships and that this principle should be enshrined in eu law. because there can be no two-class working relationships. it is also important for us in the green group to limit the grey area of pseudo-independence. we therefore want to ensure that where there is an organisational and financial dependence, this is recognised as an employment relationship with employee status. it is the only way to ensure that people who have worked all their lives can also live to a decent old age.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, economic governance is a crucial challenge for the future of our union. when president delors, as early as 1993, had outlined the need for a thorough coordination of economic policies, many member states had refused. when the first commission - which i had the honour of chairing - raised this issue in its report on the 10th anniversary of economic and monetary union in 2008, it too received little attention. i have nevertheless stressed the need to give an adequate response to the question of economic governance in my guidelines for this mandate, which we discussed together about a year ago. commissioner olli rehn also discussed this with you during his hearing. at that time, the commission announced its intention to present proposals to strengthen economic governance in the european union, in particular in the euro area. the crisis has proved us right, unfortunately. but the urgency of this debate is now recognised, and i can only rejoice that the conditions are finally in place to move towards genuine european economic governance. the commission therefore presented detailed proposals on 12 may. these proposals have been the subject of debate, including with the european parliament, and in particular the work of the task force chaired by the president of the european council. the commission welcomes the progress of this work and the consensus reached so far, which was clearly demonstrated at the european council. in order to maintain this momentum, the commission adopted again on wednesday a set of proposals which, once transposed into legislative initiatives, could, if approved in good time, be implemented as early as 2011. these proposals are made on a permanent basis. we must act now, in the legal context we have today. this is not a limitation. the new opportunities offered by the lisbon treaty can and must be fully exploited, because we have no time to wait. our citizens, our businesses, our economy demand that we take action. it is our responsibility to decide and act now. because of the economic crisis the european union has been faced with a series of serious tests. the reinforcement of economic governance is of course just one aspect of the european union's response to the crisis. the response has also included other dimensions: the comprehensive reform of the regulation of financial markets and proposals for a new european supervisory architecture. as i said this morning, a deal is within reach in the coming days. i call on all parties to maintain the positive dynamic, to ensure that new authorities can start their work in early 2011. this will also keep europe at the forefront of implementing our g20 commitments in this area: the measures to secure financial stability, first through the greece programme and then through the mechanisms for the euro area as a whole, and last but not least a programme for growth and jobs through structural reforms included in the europe 2020 strategy. our response to the crisis is a holistic one. we stabilize, we consolidate and we modernize. we prepare our social market economy to ensure a better future for our citizens. but for now let me focus on governance. the challenge of the past few months has centered on whether our economic governance is equal to the new pressures placed on our economic and fiscal stability. we have the treaty provisions in place which allow us to act. we have the institutions. we need to make it work. we faced a real risk and we successfully resisted it. now we are filling in the gaps we have identified to pre-empt such risks for the future. i first announced to parliament the ideas we fleshed out in the commission communication of 12 may. our debates since then are reflected in the commission communication of 30 june. now we are moving on to the operational phase, with the commission ready to submit legislative proposals as early as september. before explaining the issues in detail, i would like to emphasise how much this process has benefited from the work with the european council, the task force chaired by the president of the european council, and indeed the deliberations of the parliament. this work has helped to build a real european momentum. i hope that this will translate later into a swift consideration and swift adoption of legislative proposals. our approach to economic governance is to have rules that are more comprehensive and more efficient. the current treaty gives us plenty of scope to do this and i am convinced that the community method will once again give us the right answer. we need a stronger surveillance regime. that means one that is stricter and broader, covering budgetary, macroeconomic and structural policies, a regime that acknowledges the reality that each member state has its own particularities but a regime that also reflects the interdependence we all know is central to the european economy. what does this mean in detail? first we need more coordination. key to this is the european semester. it will enhance economic transparency and encourage ex ante peer reviews among member states. if member states submit their stability and convergence programmes and their national reform programmes simultaneously, we will have a truly joined-up approach. this european perspective will be an asset for member states as they plan, discuss and adopt their national budgets according to their national constitutional procedures. second, we need the credibility that comes with better enforcement. this means a refined incentives and sanctions toolbox, a more effective mix of both preventive and corrective action. we need a stability and growth pact that is targeted, not only on the deficit criterion but also on debt: a pact that has real teeth and is respected. of course the most effective sanctions are those that do not need to be used because they create the incentive to comply but, in order to achieve this, the rules need to be strong enough to command this respect. i want to be very clear on this. without a more stringent system of incentives and sanctions, we will not reinforce economic governance in a credible way. if a member state does not respect the commonly agreed rules, then it must be prepared to suffer the consequences. this also means that sanctions must be designed so as to apply to all member states on an equal basis. the parliament can be assured that the commission will do its utmost to ensure that this will be the case. as regards financial sanctions, we proposed to base them on a wider range of expenditure from the eu budget than before. in a nutshell, all member states should in future face the risk of losing money from the eu budget in the event of persistent failure to comply with the fiscal rules. the application of these rules should also be quasi-automatic as regards the corrective arm of the stability and growth pact. the timing of measures is also key. we must not fall into the trap of waiting too long before sanctions kick in. incentives and sanctions must be brought upstream so that action is deployed before the situation gets out of hand. preventive action can be much more effective than corrective action but it requires discipline and political will. one of the weakest points of our current rules is the absence of mechanisms to deal with problems appearing in so-called "good times". we are addressing this in our proposals, in particular as regards the euro area. third, our surveillance needs to capture all the key elements. it must not be restricted to fiscal policy alone. we have seen that such a narrow perspective does not work. we must have tools to detect macroeconomic imbalances among member states. such imbalances weaken the cohesion of the eu and in particular of the euro area. a comprehensive scoreboard of indicators will give us what we need to identify increasing divergences and to propose remedies. they need of course to be complemented by appropriate enforcement mechanisms for such remedies. fourth, as well as stricter fiscal rules, we also need to push the structural reforms, innovation and trade that will put europe back on track in terms of growth and create jobs for the future. that is what our europe 2020 strategy is all about. the european council endorsed it a fortnight ago. now we need to put it into practice to ensure that national and european policies are fully in tune, creating the virtuous cycle where growth in one part of europe helps drive growth in another. fifth, let me reiterate the utmost importance of transparent and robust financial market regulation, and call on all actors in the process to adopt the necessary reforms as quickly as possible. i would like to underline the historic dimension of the reforms we are putting forward. they are an answer to the challenges that our single currency is facing in europe, but they also have an important impact on the global financial markets. the time has come to give the economic and monetary union the tools it needs to fully function, in order to ensure its credibility. what is at stake is not just some technical rules. what is at stake is the future of the euro and we can say to some extent it is the future of our european project. to make all this possible we have to show beyond any possible doubt that the world has changed and that our proposals on economic governance are not more of the same, but the real breakthrough. today the conditions have been met to bring together the stability and growth pact, economic governance and structural reforms in a consistent system within the economic and monetary union. this system should harness all our tools for the common objective: the structural funds, budgetary surveillance and the reforms provided for in the europe 2020 strategy. this is a strategy for the whole union. this is not just an addition of different strategies. it is a real economic strategy for europe but we can only have a european economic strategy if we have a truly economic system of governance. however, the system of incentives and sanctions should reflect the special responsibilities of member states that have already adopted the single currency, in strict compliance with legal framework. those member states share a common good called the euro and it would not be acceptable for the misbehaviour of some members to put all the others at risk. i am convinced that these proposals will mean a step change in the economic coherence of the union, while at the same time preserving the inevitable specificities between those member states which are members of the euro area and of course respecting those which are not yet. the current situation requires ambition and boldness: the commission's proposals will send a strong message, both within the eu and worldwide, that the european union is up to the task. it is therefore paramount that our three institutions work consistently and in a spirit of close cooperation to finalise and approve these proposals with mutual confidence and belief in our common future. it is important that all our partners worldwide understand that we are ready to do whatever it takes to defend the euro and the stability of our common currency. the commission's task is to use its right of initiative to further the common interest of europe and its citizens. it is determined to fulfil this task and is convinced that these proposals are the right way forward for europe. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you for presenting this communication. i think we should be careful not to fall back on old patterns in a very difficult situation. the so-called political right emphasizes budget deficits and problems of competitiveness, and the political left only emphasizes the dangers of austerity. i don't think we're going to get anywhere. on the other hand, if we look at this proposal with fairness, we find that it contains important progress, for example in the area of budgetary coordination, including the clear identification of imbalances. until recently, it was almost impossible to talk seriously about imbalances. it is a step forward that sanctions should follow when member states do not do their homework. but at the same time, this proposal has blind spots, and we can no longer afford to ignore them. that means, of course, economic governance and also talking about tax issues. and we have tax havens, we have large untaxed sectors of the economy, and we have excessive tax competition - that can no longer be taboo and is of course part of such an explanation. secondly, it is not enough to coordinate budgetary policy in the way that has been described, but we must ensure that budgetary policy is counter-cyclical and thus counter-crisis. that's not in the text. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the budget for the year 2000 and to present a report on the implementation of the budget for the year 2000. i am afraid you still do not have the courage to say that as clearly as you should. we have problems in the area of asset prices and asset bubbles. that is not explicitly mentioned either. the point i am making is that we should be honest and put our ideologies behind us after this crisis and look at all the causes of the crisis instead of looking for these problems in one direction. progress is no longer enough in the face of the crisis, citizens expect and deserve holistic and comprehensive solutions.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not after the commission's presentation in recent weeks of measures to avert impending crises, including the rescue of banks on the one hand and social cuts, wage and pension cuts on the other, with its euro-bailout and the eu 2020 strategy, proposals are now on the table to reform the stability and growth pact. we are convinced that these commission proposals for reform of the stability and growth pact are going in the wrong direction. the commission, like the working party chaired by mr van rompuy, does not want to change the substance of the pact, but to tighten up the sanctions and enforce compliance. the commission and the council are calling for even more controls and even more penalties for deficit countries. this has not worked in the past, and it will not work in the future. we are glad, however, as the left in the european parliament, that at least the worst penalties proposed for deficit countries have not been taken up by the commission. financial market regulation is pressing. we shall do our part to solve the problem; the citizens must pay, and now the council should finally take action. the problems with the stability and growth pact are not its lack of compliance and the rapid return of the annual deficit to the maastricht target of 3% of new debt. this will be able to choke off the still weak and endangered growth in the eurozone. the existing economic imbalances in the eu must be reduced, since speculators live off them. this includes the economically strong countries abandoning their aggressive export strategies, which have devastating consequences for the other countries. instead, these countries must do more to strengthen their internal markets and demand. the stability and growth pact must include criteria such as the unemployment rate and the spread of poverty. it is not a matter of tightening it up, but of reforming it fundamentally.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that this empty council seat is a real symbol of where we are at. i know that the council is currently taking the oath of office and therefore has a good reason for its absence, but the empty seat of the council is symbolic of the fact that after many, many weeks and 18 trilogues on the core packages, that is to say on the esrb and on the individual supervisory bodies, we still do not have a written common position from the council in which the council reacts to what we have done as parliament. the european parliament has said by a large, overwhelming majority: we will not allow the council to water down the proposals of the de larosière commission and the commission's own proposals in nationalist, clerical thinking, by not responding to the experience of this crisis, but instead by having a petty competition of competences and by not looking at what efficient solutions are, what financial supervision must look like in a european single market, but rather by simply not handing over competences, competences which, as has been clearly shown in recent years, could not be exercised effectively because europe's financial centres are in competition with each other and also because of who is creating the best conditions for supply, so to speak, and this has been stressed at one time or another. so we have had an intensive discussion on many issues since then. the citizens do not understand why a common european financial supervision should be spread over three different cities. citizens would also have expected these authorities to have strong investor and consumer protection rights. we have now decided that in parliament, and fortunately there seems to be a broad consensus that this is necessary. the regulation of derivatives is creating new european market infrastructures. it should be normal for european public goods to be under european supervision as well, and not just under the supervision of national institutions. we have also insisted in parliament that the new authorities should be given the power to ban dangerous financial products. i want to be very clear: it is not a question of stopping innovation in the financial markets, but if things prove dangerous, then there should be the possibility of banning it throughout europe. the principle is now accepted in the negotiations, but the details are currently being sought to make the product ban so difficult that in practice it is unlikely, at least unlikely, to respond to innovative financial products. then there is the long debate on direct decision-making rights. there, too, we had a history of fighting waterlogging. the central point remains: if a real financial crisis breaks out, who declares the emergency? the council insists that it should be the council itself which decides that the decision-making powers are to be transferred from the member states to a european authority. will the council ever do that? he insists that the goat be made the gardener's keeper. this is illogical, as the commission has repeatedly pointed out. the council has so far been stubborn. the council also insists that any decision taken by the european authorities is revocable when it restricts the budgetary rights of the member states. we accept the principle, but not in the case of small amounts and not when it comes to reducing tax revenues, but when it comes to large sums of money being moved by a european decision. in other words, after months of negotiations and 18 trilogues, we are still not close to the end. the council is requested. we must now send a clear signal this week by voting to ensure that the council finally heeds the calls of the citizens to put in place an efficient, uniform european financial supervision that responds adequately to the crisis. i am convinced that we will continue to work well together in this house in this spirit, and i thank all the members for that.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have a common single market, but we have fragmented supervision. it's obvious that this can't work. we need strong central european structures that draw on the expertise and detailed knowledge of the member states' bodies, but also have powers of intervention in an emergency. the citizens expect that decisions will be taken quickly, swiftly and in a fair manner, especially in view of the enormous tax burden that this crisis has placed on them. the citizens are not interested in power games at national level, where the only question is who decides what. what the citizens want is effective decision-making, that problems are solved. it is objectively true that when measures are taken in an emergency situation, they must be centrally regulated and decided at european level if coordination between member states is not sufficient and does not work. this is also the line taken by the decisions of the g20, the g8, the heads of state or government, unfortunately not at the council level. the council is making a very small, very small deal. this is not an acceptable policy for the citizens. we expect the council to move.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is sometimes hard to believe what we have been doing for over a year now in discussions and debates, in many meetings in the trilog, where i could have imagined something better than spending my time there. at this point, more than a year after the european elections, when we have still been proclaiming in the streets and squares how we want to control the financial markets, we are faced with a very meagre or non-existent result. the problem has already been described. we are dealing with markets that are now global. member states still feel that they are in a position to enforce the rules of the game in this area with their national supervisory structures. the failure of that did not trigger the financial crisis, but it did contribute to the fact that it hit europe. i therefore wonder when this insight, which is often expressed in sunday speeches, will be translated into political action, where it is suddenly a matter of protecting stock exchanges, protecting banking structures, and no longer protecting citizens. we have dedicated ourselves to this task as the european parliament, and i hope that the member states will also devote themselves to this task, because they have a shared responsibility to implement proper supervision rules for citizens, which ensure that the savings of the individual are also secure in the long term. i hope, commissioners, that the commission will do everything it can to achieve a good result as soon as possible, in the interests of the people of europe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we in this european parliament have a responsibility to ensure that financial markets are strongly regulated. all of what we proposed has been heavily watered down in the trilogies. the council and the governments do not want strong powers of intervention. giegold is right when he calls what is happening there today "the thinking of the tower of the church". the intention seems to be not strict regulation but simply to design the system a little more fault-free. we will have a fragmented supervisory structure which will not be able to exercise real control over the financial markets. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial and economic policies are not affected by the crisis. many national economies, including those in europe, will not survive the next blows, with all the social and economic consequences for the people of europe. they expect this predator of financial market capitalism to be recaptured and the primacy of politics restored. when the chairman of the unicredit bank, alessandro profumo, says at the weekend that we need a strong and uniform european financial supervision and a common rule for all member states, and he calls for stricter capital rules, that is an appeal to this parliament to actually establish those rules. it is up to this european parliament to put pressure on the council and to introduce effective regulation as a matter of urgency; it would be only the first step towards a status quo ante. let the full-bodied promises be followed by deeds! my group is in favour of strong european regulation. anything else, no regulation, would be a danger to the euro, to a common eu and to democracy.
the commission has already done so. the council members also know that weaknesses in the supervisory system are or were one of the causes of the greatest global financial crisis we have seen since the 1930s. they also know that the consequences of this crisis cannot be tackled by national measures alone, but by looking for global, or at least european, responses. the council should know that the european parliament does not want an independent european supervisory structure and a systemic risk committee out of any sense of entitlement or dogmatism but out of deep, cross-party conviction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are uniform, and that they are interpreted and applied in a uniform manner. the crisis has shown clearly that we need more europe in the financial sector, not less, and that stagnation would be a step backwards. the member states should abandon the hypocrisy of calling for global solutions at the g20 meetings, of demanding at least european rules at home, but of refusing to compromise in the trilogue talks.
i have to say, madam president, we also need more financial market supervision in europe. the economic and financial crisis has made it clear that opportunities have been missed in the past. the european supervisory authorities must be equipped with comprehensive powers, they must not become empty shells, passively watching market developments. in particular, for financial institutions operating across borders, there needs to be a central body that can pool national supervisory powers at the crucial moment and can intervene quickly and in a targeted manner. direct access to disputes between national authorities in emergency situations and to infringements of community law is essential. the council must finally accept the european parliament as an equal legislator. the performance of the responsible members has certainly not been lacking. there have been many discussions, and the work here in parliament has been swift and purposeful. we now expect clear answers and concrete proposals in writing from the council. a reference to the world cup is appropriate these days: the ball is now in the council's court.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the financial crisis has shown that a single financial supervision of the european union is indispensable. the three planned eu-wide supervisory authorities for banking, insurance and securities trading will be given direct access to national institutions such as deutsche bank. these rights of access are limited to exceptional cases and will hopefully never be exercised. as a member of the legal affairs committee, i regret that the committee responsible has not taken account of our constitutional concerns regarding the rights of recourse provided for at both european and national level, in particular following the lisbon judgment of the federal constitutional court. a recommendation by the legal affairs committee, according to which the commission, as guardian of the treaties, would have retained the final decision-making power, so to speak, in the context of a procedure to be observed, was not followed. the legal committee does not ignore the fact that the necessary expertise for the assessment is undisputedly in the national and european supervisory authorities and not in the commission. i hope that the current negotiations will also find a solution to this constitutional problem.
i have to say, madam president, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. we want to minimize systemic risk in a sustainable way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the priority is to have national regulatory authorities that finally cooperate with each other, that keep each other fully informed, so that risky transactions are avoided. the national self-interest, as advocated by some eu finance ministers, must be put aside. it would be fatal if only one member state, and not just the euro countries, were to fail. the council presidency, which is absent, must live up to its responsibilities, maintain a close dialogue with the european parliament and the commission and convert national thinking into common, consistent and sustainable action. we do not need less europe for the taxpayers' sake, we need more europe!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear ramon! although i am tempted to enter the field of religion now, especially because the principle of subsidiarity has been invoked here on several occasions, i am continually annoyed when this principle of christian social ethics is used to claim that we do not want anything at all at european level. this principle states very clearly that everything should be regulated at the level where it can best be regulated, but then at the lowest possible level. what we have seen is that the very question of financial supervision of the large crossborder institutions in a common internal market is no longer a national one. it is therefore a pity that the colleagues are no longer here, otherwise i would have liked to have introduced them to a little more christian social ethics. but i think it is important that we now have a compromise, and we hope, with your help, mr barnier, that we will have it very quickly, so that there is no misunderstanding. parliament proposed a last-minute compromise last week, and now we have an interpretation that the points where we signal that we are ready to move again within the framework of a compromise which is difficult for us are now taken for granted, and all the other points are now being renegotiated. and then there's this thinking behind it: parliament will approve, because everyone wants the authorities to start on 1 january 2011. i can only say that we all want the authorities to get started, but we will fight for strong competences. it doesn't work with the method where you take the little finger that you've held out and then you try to rip off the whole hand. this method will fail. the consensus in parliament is too strong for that, and we want to have a compromise, but only with strong powers. i hope that this signal will also be understood by the council, which is not present, because otherwise next week will be very uncomfortable for all of us.
that is a good way of doing it, because we have time, we do it best that way, and then we stay within the rules and we don't take away anyone's speaking time. thank you for your understanding. now we come to the speakers in the catch the eye procedure.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. the debate is closed and the vote will take place on wednesday, 7 july 2010, at 12 noon.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on capital requirements for trading book and securitisation and on the supervisory review of remuneration policies (com ((2009) 0362 c7-0096/2009 2009/0099 (cod)) (a7-0205/2010) and the report by saïd el khadraoui, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on remuneration of directors of listed companies and remuneration policy in the financial services sector (2010/2009 (ini)) (a7-0208/2010).
i have to say, madam president, othmar karas has already made some important points. i agree with him on that. i think we need qualitatively and quantitatively better capital requirements for financial institutions. there is no doubt that the further development of basel is therefore necessary. but it is not helpful to overwhelm it, for it may be counterproductive. the financial crisis is, of course, a global crisis. the lessons we must learn from this must therefore be drawn on a global scale. so if we are going to tighten up capital requirements, we have to do so in an international way. the level playing field must be maintained, and when i see what has just been decided by our friends in the united states in the last few days, i have some doubts. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. for example, texts and annexes must be consistent, and the examples of calculations in the annexes must be adapted to the wording. the interpretation of this will probably be the task of the future supervisory authority. and we should also remember one thing: the financial and real economies are not two independent systems. the regulation of capital requirements has an impact on the real economy. but we don't know which ones yet. we therefore need at least careful impact assessments before we change the legal framework further. this has been the european people's party's negotiating line from the beginning. the compromise with the council that has now been reached is therefore, in my view, the only sensible solution, and i would like to thank mr mccarthy and mr othmar karas for the work they have put into this report.
member of the commission. − concerning those eu agreements, there are two member states which continue to have political reservations on the proposal. they want to take a ‘package’ approach to this issue by linking together a proposal amending the savings directive, the mutual cooperation proposal and the proposal relating to negotiations with the said member states. it is an issue that we are working on and the belgian presidency is making this issue a priority for the presidency. i hope that we will be able to make progress in this area. i am sorry, but the beginning of the second question was not very clear.
member of the commission. − i would not like to comment on whether britain would be in a better situation outside the european union. i will leave the question to the comments of those who made them. concerning issues of harmful tax competition, tax evasion and tax fraud and concerning norway, we are in a negotiation process with norway. there is quite substantial progress in this area and i hope that we will be able to come to an agreement with them on those particular matters. as i said in my introduction, we also asked the council to give us a mandate to negotiate a similar agreement with switzerland. we are now dealing with the current package, which includes three directives, and the issue of lichtenstein. only after these parts of the package are resolved will we be able to get a mandate for the negotiations with switzerland and other european countries which are not members of the european union. with regard to switzerland, we are also waiting concerning another topic – the application of the code of conduct in business taxation matters. quite recently the council asked us to start a dialogue with the swiss authorities on their views regarding the application of the principles of the code of conduct in switzerland. the commission started this dialogue last week. sometime in the future i will be able to inform you of the progress in this area.
member of the commission. − the european commission is indeed aware of the situation and the worrying economic conditions in the southern serbian region, including the presevo valley area. historically the area has been underdeveloped and is currently the poorest in serbia. the commission has been providing significant financial assistance since 2000. the objectives are to reduce the disparity between southern serbia and the rest of the country in terms of living conditions and public services, and to ensure that the area plays a full part in the state institutions with responsibility for planning, future investment and their implementation. concerning cross-border cooperation, under the ipa instrument for the pre-accession assistance programme for the region to which the question refers, this will depend on future progress in the relationship between the partners concerned. in the meantime the european union will continue to encourage and support the rule of law, investment infrastructure and local border traffic in this region through the instruments it has at its disposal. these instruments include the eulex rule of law mission in kosovo and the activities which the european union supports under the annual ipa programmes for serbia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and kosovo. as far as kosovo is concerned, the commission’s october 2009 communications on kosovo included a number of important proposals which the general affairs council, december 2009, asked us to take forward. as a result kosovo will effectively start to benefit from the european union financed cross-border cooperation project later this year. the commission will mobilise ipa component ii for kosovo-albania and for kosovo-the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in 2010, this year. we intend to include kosovo-montenegro as well, starting next year. the commission will continue to closely monitor the initiatives taken in this area through our structured dialogue with the authorities, as well as through our yearly reports, the next of which is due to be published in november 2010.
the commission has already done so. thank you for the very good answer. they come from a model region of europe, the euregio egrensis, and i think that in this particular region, where the borders will not be open for a long time, small border traffic should be strengthened so that people do not have to wait in the tourist queues to reach their fields on the other side. we need to enable people to go to the hospital near the border, to recognize the educational credentials -- there's a lot, a lot to do, and i really want to ask you to make that a priority. the people there are suffering a lot.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to thank mrs liotard. the epp group cannot support it on all points. we have a different view on the additives, on the animals fed with food from gm plants, but it has done its job. i also want to thank our shadow reporter, pilar ayuso, who has done a very good job. but she has already indicated that there was a controversial debate in our group on the subject of animal cloning. i am pleased to say that as coordinator the majority of the epp group is in favour of banning cloning and that we will vote as a group tomorrow, regardless of individual opinions which differ. the following reasons were important in our discussion in the group: first of all, our agricultural experts do not think that we need to have meat from cloned animals to ensure our food supply. we don't need that. i am sorry to say, for ethical reasons, that when animal cloning is used on a large scale, it also makes it easier to clone people, and that is clearly unethical. the public is very clear about this all the surveys say this and i am sure that in this case it is not just a vague gut feeling: anyone who has really looked closely at the efsa opinion cannot in good conscience support this! there are so many unanswered questions, and this unpleasant feeling is justified. the key reason is animal welfare. this is what the efsa and the ege and many others say. cloned animals suffer. only about 10% of implanted embryos ever reach birth, and then a third die by the third month. and they die in pain. they often have to be put to sleep because they have terrible diseases. animal welfare is not some principle that you can or cannot apply. the founding fathers of the treaties imposed this on us. we cannot pass a law that does not take animal welfare into account. that is why we shall be supporting it with a large majority tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think that the situation is similar in all the political groups. we have had an interesting debate, which was also controversial, on this regulation, but the vast majority also believe that we will vote with the rapporteur tomorrow and send a clear signal to the commission and the council. commissioner, i believe you said we had a consensus. we have the need for prior authorization before new food products are placed on the market, and i also expressly agree that we need a central authorization procedure, rather than making different authorizations in 27 member states. this would be incompatible with the idea of the internal market and with the equality of health and living conditions. we have new technologies coming into the food market - this has been said here - the nanotechnology, the gmos, and it is the line of this house that we are careful until we know all the data and can be sure that our people in the supermarkets can also buy very safe food and then eat it later. we are not banning gmos and nanomaterials, but we want to give consumers the freedom of choice, so that they can be labelled if they contain these materials. i hope that the commission will also come to a definition and perhaps to a regulation next week in its cross-cutting debate on nanomaterials, so that we have more material on hand on how to deal with nanomaterials. a lot has been said about cloned meat. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to remove this part from the regulation on novel foods. that would open the way for the regulation of all the other issues which are not controversial. i would therefore ask you to take a decision on a separate regulation for cloned meat before the conciliation procedure is over and to remove it from the novel food regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr commissioner, i asked myself at the beginning of the debate: do we need a regulation on novel foods? don't we have enough food regulations already? yes, we need it! but i do have a somewhat critical view of the document at second reading, particularly in terms of our efforts to reduce bureaucracy. if there is to be a regulation on novel foods, it should really only apply to novel foods. if the rapporteur now brings back before the second reading all the rejected amendments from the first reading, such as those on genetically modified products, where we already have very extensive legislation, then this has to be rejected decisively. the constant repetition of ideological ideas that have been worked on and rejected many times is not an expression of an intelligible legislative process, but is primarily confusing to the public. the situation is different with nanotechnology, a new process. but we should be careful not to demonize this new technology, as has happened many times in the past. we must not resist progress. i have just heard a presentation on nanotechnology from a representative of the federal institute for risk assessment in germany a few weeks ago, and i am amazed at the information that already exists, the research that has been done. we should invite this representative to the committee once, and then we will no longer hear the speeches, we still have a lot of research to do - certainly we have to do that in nanotechnology too, but the opportunities behind it are enormous. we should continue to use them and promote them. as regards animal cloning, i would remind you that we have explicitly committed ourselves to protecting animal welfare by the treaty of lisbon, to take full account of animal welfare in all legislative procedures. i am therefore pleased that the commissioner has agreed to present a new document on this problem, and i look forward to what will be presented to us. thank you for listening to me.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. new foodstuffs - we also need new regulations. in addition to consumer protection, the ethical issues raised by the production of novel foods are also relevant. the first issue is, as the debate here tonight shows, the question of meat from cloned animals. we have an adequate supply of meat in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not contaminated by the products of the animal cloning industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not contaminated by the products of the cloning of animals. the risk of a disruption of the supply chain is not always excluded. there is no reliable evidence of the suffering such animals endure, but it is already recognised and the statistics show that cloned animals are becoming increasingly ill. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. not everything that is possible is for the benefit of people. there can be no cloned animals in the food chain. we must ensure that we send a consistent and clear political message to the commission and to our citizens. another important subject of this regulation is the regulation of nanotechnology. in order to guarantee a high level of consumer protection and legal certainty for producers, we urgently need a horizontal definition, which applies not only to novel foods but also to the directive on food contact materials, the cosmetics directive and the biocidal product authorization regulation, which we are currently discussing at first reading. i would ask the commission to submit a proposal on this as soon as possible.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. bad timing for this speech. i would have liked to have seen the dutch team win, even if it was the last time in this world cup. probably a bad omen, because we're not allowed to squat anymore, and then they probably won't win. commissioner, we are finalising today - or tomorrow, to be precise - a package of legislation which we have been discussing for more than two years. this is not only due to the controversy, but also to a european choice in the meantime and also to the entry into force of a new eu treaty, which has meant that we have had to adjust some things. but i think that if we conclude this debate today, i will conclude that we are now voting on a compromise which is worth voting for, even if at one point or another we may do so with our fists in our pockets. i would like to emphasize two aspects. one is the environmental requirements in industrial plants. the point is that we need to make the best available technology more widely available in europe. i think we have found an exceptional paragraph in the compromise now before us, which gives the european commission - and i am addressing this to you, mr potočnik - the means to ensure that in the next few years, the approximately 52 000 industrial plants in europe affected by this will ultimately use the best available technology better than they do today. i've heard many arguments in this debate. i want to take one of them and reflect it here because i can't understand it at all. i have often been told that the use of the best available technology is too expensive and that we are endangering the competitiveness of european industry, and that this is all the more so in the crisis. i hate to remember my past, but i'm from the former gdr, from east germany. the economic and ecological collapse of the gdr was the result of decades of slumbering over investment in the latest technology. i believe that every industry, every industrial enterprise, is called upon to invest in the latest technology because otherwise it loses its competitiveness and, of course, also reduces its emissions. we have a chance today to pass legislation that will improve this baseline situation. the second part of the directive - and this is a bit of the clenched fist i mentioned - is the large combustion plants. we are talking again - we did this in the last directive - about new exemptions until 2020, and possibly 2023 for large combustion plants which do not have to meet environmental requirements, in particular the limit values for air pollutants. i would like to make an appeal to the council, and perhaps to all of us, to think very carefully about the practical value of regularly welcoming ambitious environmental objectives, discussing them and welcoming them here, but whenever it is a question of implementing them, of translating them into concrete legislation, a mourning game begins in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are a number of member states which already meet the conditions today and which are left in the dust. i repeat: both in the case of industrial plants and large combustion plants - these are essentially coal-fired power stations - we are not talking about science fiction. we're not talking about things that are not available, but it's the state of the art. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not only a matter of energy efficiency, but also of the protection of the environment. i also thank the colleagues who have worked with me over the last two years, sometimes with very hard work, for their support, for their contribution and, above all, for the fact that almost all the important groups have co-signed this compromise.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner potočnik specifically thanked this parliament for being so persistent in this piece of legislation and for having helped to ensure that there will now be a big push forward in air quality. and of course we should thank our rapporteur, holger krahmer, for his excellent work, but also all the shadow rapporteurs and others who have stuck to this objective of making europe's air cleaner. the european environment agency has given us a report, and it shows that we still have some very bad conditions in terms of air pollution, nitrogen oxides, dust. commissioner, you said so yourself. now, we hope that with this new piece of legislation, you also have a tool to exercise control. we want you to really persevere in implementing it and not accept big exceptions and time-wasting. after all, the predecessor directive was adopted in 1996, so 14 years ago! i can still understand the new member states, poland and others, but i cannot understand the old member states, that little has been done in all these years and the arguments that you hear here again - jobs and costs - yes, well, it is always bad if you wait too long, then everything comes at once. if you do your work on time, you can also innovate and still secure sites. so a great success, with the large-scale firing systems being a drop in the bucket. the small ones are arrested, the big ones are let go. as is often the case in life, this is unfortunately the case here in the industrial plants.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. three important things happened while we were debating: firstly, it is clear that europe will be the world champion in football. a good omen, i suppose. we'll see who's right. i don't want to give preferences right now. secondly, germany is getting compliments from the united kingdom. chris davies, thank you very much. it doesn't happen every day. it's worth noting. and thirdly, the world is still fine, even with the greens, football is more important than environmental protection. because unfortunately our colleague bas eickhout is gone again. but of course, congratulations to our dutch friends. i would like to say two things about the debate i have just had the pleasure of following. firstly, i understand all too well the concerns and needs of my eastern european friends. i am half eastern european, but i am also east german. i understand that not every environmental policy step taken in the western european countries in the last few decades can be immediately followed in eastern europe. environmental protection at a high level must be affordable. yes, that's right. but i think that - even if we take this sentence into account - it is worthwhile to accept this compromise, because it is in keeping with the different starting points in which many member states find themselves. secondly, the argument that the use of the best available technology is a threat to competitiveness, especially in relation to china, is not only false, it is dangerous. we have to face the fact that industrial processes in asia are definitely cheaper than in our country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you do not, you will lose your competitiveness. no one is asking - not even this law - to shut down an industrial plant tomorrow. nobody is asking for a jump from zero to 100 to reach any pollutant limit within a week. we have enough transitional periods, but to say that we should do without them for reasons of competition is wrong. and i think that we have not only made a breakthrough in environmental policy with the directive, but also in industrial policy, which is worth working towards in the coming years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we're making a good law today. it is good and right that we should be concerned with preventing illegal timber from entering the european internal market. but of course, what applies to this law is the same as for all environmental laws: you cannot just write down what you want, but you must also always see whether what you write down and prescribe is ultimately practical. i therefore think it is right that we have finally reached a compromise, namely that the duty of care must be exercised only at the first point of placing on the market, and that only there can the import ban be imposed. it would be far too bureaucratic to provide proof of origin throughout the supply chain within europe. that was on the table at the beginning of the debate. i think it is unrealistic to keep storing new invoices and proofs from the wood storage yard to the sawmill to the furniture factory. this creates bureaucracy, which doubtless produces more paper and may even accelerate legal logging. that is why we must maintain a certain measure of balance. we did it. i do not agree with the approach that satu hassi has just spoken about, namely that we can have a zero-risk policy. it's not just the woodworking, it doesn't work. zero risk is not an option. this creates bureaucracy and, above all, it creates new risks. we must ensure that the laws remain balanced and workable. in that sense, this compromise is good. i am glad that we can agree to this by a large majority tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr president, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm also starting where joseph daul left off. the ambitious programme you have presented has a message that is visible and tangible in all its details: belgium is a country which combines with its presidency a commitment to a profoundly pro-european attitude, and this is one of the reasons why this presidency is a great opportunity for us all. i would therefore like to begin by thanking you on behalf of my group, and also thank you for the fact that the belgian presidency has shown, in the preparations and in the few days since it took office, that a government in office is also very well placed to lead this european union if it is committed to the fundamental european values. this is a good, encouraging start to this presidency. (applause from the centre) europe is in a state of social imbalance. the biggest problem we all face is the deep social divide we have in this union. we are talking - and quite rightly - about the financial and economic crisis of recent years. we are talking about the necessary measures that must be taken now to get this deregulated banking sector, above all the deregulated speculative sector, under control. that is why one of the key measures that must be put in place now is the regulatory package that we are going to adopt here tomorrow. the banking supervision package: this must be completed during your presidency. the european parliament will, by a large majority, suspend the final vote on the first reading of this package and give the council the chance to come back to parliament with a constructive offer by the september european parliament meeting. this is your responsibility, but it is also your great opportunity to contribute to reducing social inequalities in europe through more regulation. the burden and costs of this crisis cannot always be borne by the workers. the banking sector must be involved. (applause from the centre) that is why financial regulation and economic governance, that is, economic governance in europe, are absolutely necessary. but here too the community method applies. i would like to say very clearly to the council and to the president of the council: we have enough institutions in europe. we do not need any more institutions. what we need is for the institutions that are there to finally act and finally act in a european way. because one thing is also clear: you cannot go and say that we cannot, for example, introduce a financial transaction tax in europe because the united states or china are not participating in the g20. it's a shoe! if the capitalist sector in europe is more regulated, then in the light of the dollar speculation that is now beginning, the united states of america will have no choice but to join in. that is why we have the opportunity under your presidency to set a good example in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the african strategy which the belgian presidency has outlined and outlined is, in my view, a key issue in the european union's international policy. not just from the standpoint of solidarity. africa is a forgotten continent and i think it is more than worth supporting that you, as president, say that europe must turn more to the african continent. but it also means that europe is very late, because other parts of the world, especially china, have already embraced this continent. and whether the strategy with which the people's republic of china is active in africa is what we mean by fair partnership with this continent, i shall leave that to the future. we europeans have a different approach, one that is also more accommodating to africans. i therefore fully support the strategy for africa of the belgian presidency of the council. i would like to conclude, mr president, by making a comment on enlargement. yes, we are now in a major expansion phase. but, mr. leterme, i have to give you something to go with it. you have addressed turkey here. i am one of those who are in favour of turkey joining the european union, and that is why i say that if the council does not at some point clarify whether it really wants turkey to join or not, if we continue to act with this ambiguity, with this duplicity, to say again and again that turkey has a chance of joining and should be admitted to the eu, but at the same time know that there are at least four or five heads of government who say behind closed doors that this is not possible, then this is the best way to destroy the good relations of the eu with turkey instead of bringing turkey into the eu. that is why it is your task to clarify the situation here. i very much enjoyed your speech, and i hope my group colleagues did too. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, i should like to say that i was very pleased that you specifically spoke in favour of multilingualism. i also see this as a signal to your fellow citizens in belgium to appreciate much more the multilingualism which belgium serves as the basis for a strong, common development. as a german, i can only say that when i was young, i envied students, young people, who grew up in multilingual countries with much better opportunities. so thank you for that signal. (applause from the centre) you can use that, because as belgian prime minister you are also an expert on the declining forces of integration. this is a belgian and a european problem. and beyond the acute financial regulatory challenge, i subscribe to everything my predecessors have said. it is important that you succeed in the coming months, with us and with the commission, in giving citizens a real chance to trust the european union's ability to act. we've lost a lot. europe used to be the promise of freedom, but also of a constant improvement in living conditions. this is the confidence that the citizens no longer have, and i believe that we have to face challenges, apart from strong financial supervision, which are that in many other areas we are seeing european countries and therefore the citizens living in those countries seeing things drift apart, seeing fractures become stronger. there has been much discussion about the different competitiveness of the european member states. we have to deal with this. it is right to decide on wage and tax policy strategies from brussels. we do not want to take all the blame, but the unilateral approach to budgetary policy, as practised by germany, will certainly help to bridge the gaps in the european union in the near future, but it will not be enough. i also say that i think we must be very concerned about social conditions when people in the donor countries keep reading in the newspapers that in germany you retire at 67 and in other countries you don't even have to be 60 years old. this is not a prerequisite for solidarity in the long run. the fractures and challenges are therefore extremely diverse, and i think we should not pretend to be anything but. i hope that the belgian presidency will clarify one thing, namely the role of the permanent president of the council - at the moment it is mr von rompuy, a belgian - and the rotating presidency. the council president, a fellow citizen of yours, is in danger of becoming the sole instrument of the council's interests, the backdrop for the major governments of the european union. this can't go on like this. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i would like to congratulate you on your presentation of an ambitious but not detailed programme, and if you see mr farage's attacks, you can conclude that he wants to prevent any regulation of the financial markets and he wants to attack you as someone who is only in office temporarily. i would like to congratulate you on your achievement. you are a pro-european, you are a supporter of the social market economy, you are someone who, despite all the difficulties in his own country, has put forward an ambitious programme, and i believe that if you succeed, as mr verhofstadt has said, in breaking this unfortunate dictate of unanimity in the council on the question of financial regulation, then you will have us on your side and you will have one of the most successful presidencies in recent years. we therefore ask you, precisely because you are not in office for much longer, to use these months to complete this issue, which the spanish presidency of the council has not been able to complete, together with parliament. we'll help you with that.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on iceland's application for membership of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council! i would welcome iceland's accession to the european union, iceland fulfilling many conditions as a member of the european economic area. it's one of the most functioning democracies i know, and i think the european union is willing to be a safe haven for iceland, which is the reason iceland is making a request here, but we should also make it clear that it's in our interest for iceland to become a member of the european union. in addition, there are a number of issues which are not covered by the european economic area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, i think it is important to ensure that the icelandic government is campaigning for membership. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution1under rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 7 july 2010. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice: 1 see minutes
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. thank you for this impressive majority. i would just like to say one thing: this shift should not be seen as a weakness of parliament but as a strength of parliament. we know that we have the power to measure the new european financial market supervision package solely by its strong competences at european level. we won't be pressured. we are giving the council time to finally adopt a sensible position that can be put to the vote.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a comment on amendment no 6 as coordinator of the socialist and democratic group. i would ask my group to vote for motion no 6, as opposed to the way we recommended it. that's a mistake on that list. we should vote for motion no 6 and that probably clarifies our voting behaviour now in a crucial situation.
i have to say, madam president, first, i find that there is no economic necessity for the use of cloned meat for human consumption. secondly, the risk assessment of cloned meat for human consumption is not yet fully understood. the main point is that animal cloning is incompatible with european animal welfare law. and that is why cloning animals for food production is not allowed. it's forbidden to do that! i think the people of the european union expect us to make such a clear statement.
i have to say, madam president, i very much welcome the commission's intention to prevent the illegal logging of timber and its import into the european union. this is urgently needed in view of the dramatic consequences of illegal logging. however, a balanced compromise was needed, one that would not burden the woodworking industry with unnecessary regulations. i am pleased that we have been able to avoid unnecessary burdens and at the same time effectively address the problem of ongoing deforestation. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the investment project. our companies that use wood from sustainable and legal sources will also benefit.
in writing. − i support the european union's approach to reorientate current remuneration policies towards long-term success and greater accountability of decision-makers. however, this must not lead to politicians fixing salaries. this task should be retained in the existing body structures such as the supervisory board and the general meeting of the banks. the proposed remuneration policy should therefore not replace existing structures but should at best complement them where necessary, provided that this is conducive to the quality of economic decisions.
in writing. − i support the european union's approach to reorientate current remuneration policies towards long-term success and greater accountability of decision-makers. however, this must not lead to politicians fixing salaries. this task should be retained in the existing body structures such as the supervisory board and the general meeting of the banks. the proposed remuneration policy should therefore not replace existing structures but should at best complement them where necessary, provided that this is conducive to the quality of economic decision-making.
in writing. − the fdp is in favour of positive labelling (process labelling) of gmos in food at european level in order to provide the necessary transparency for consumers. but in this case we cannot agree, because we are asking for unequal treatment of different sectors. while the labelling is required for the animal production sector, it is not required for the plant production sector. such unilateral labelling of products of animal origin can have a highly distorting effect on the market to the detriment of one party and is thus contrary to the objective of fair competition. this clearly goes against the principle of equality in our legal system.
in writing. − the fdp is in favour of positive labelling (process labelling) of gmos in food at european level in order to provide the necessary transparency for consumers. but in this case we cannot agree, because we are asking for unequal treatment of different sectors. while the labelling is required for the animal production sector, it is not required for the plant production sector. such unilateral labelling of products of animal origin can have a strong distorting effect on the market to the detriment of one party and is thus contrary to the objectives of fair competition. this clearly goes against the principle of equality in our legal system.
in writing. - i campaigned for the ban on clone meat. we have enough meat from conventional livestock. it would be irresponsible to produce clone meat. cloning is animal cruelty. only a fraction of clones survive, and most of those that do survive are deformed in limbs and organs. they die in agony within the first few months of life. experience also shows that reproductive techniques developed for animal production are eventually used in humans. it is therefore important to send a clear signal now that we in the eu are against cloning. the rejection of labelling of foodstuffs from animals fed genetically modified food is also correct. the majority of farm animals in europe are fed imported gm protein feed. the genetic modification of the fodder plants does not, however, spread to the animal products, so it is not present in meat, eggs or milk. the ep has therefore already called for an exemption from the labelling requirement for such animal products in the regulation on the traceability and labelling of gm food and feed, which came into force in 2004. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of products of animal origin is not restricted to the labelling of products of animal origin.
in writing. - i have subsequently made some changes in my vote, since, contrary to the majority opinion of the group, the rapporteur responsible, mrs ayuso, has put her own opinion on the voting list and not the agreed one. i deeply regret this internal procedure, because it damages the confidence in the group.
in writing. − i support the european union's approach to reorientate current remuneration policies towards long-term success and greater accountability of decision-makers. however, this must not lead to politicians fixing salaries. this task should be retained in the existing body structures such as the supervisory board and the general meeting of the banks. the proposed remuneration policy should therefore not replace existing structures but should at best complement them where necessary, provided that this is conducive to the quality of economic decisions.
in writing. − i support the european union's approach to reorientate current remuneration policies towards long-term success and greater accountability of decision-makers. however, this must not lead to politicians fixing salaries. this task should be retained in the existing body structures such as the supervisory board and the general meeting of the banks. the proposed remuneration policy should therefore not replace existing structures but should at least supplement them where necessary, provided that this is conducive to the quality of economic decision-making.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the madrid agreement is an important first step towards the establishment of an external action service of the european union. we know that this is not yet final, because there is all the necessary scope for the codecision procedure in the area of the staff regulations/financial regulation, which is a condition for the definitive establishment of this service. but with this agreement, there can also be a certain amount of planning and preparation. we, as the european parliament, also want to express our desire for this foreign service. it was already in the constitutional convention that the european parliament wanted to have a high representative who was able to coordinate the european union's external relations and to lead the european union's foreign and security policy, and who would be provided with a service that would enable her to take a stand before the commission, the council and the world, to express the unity and coherence of european foreign policy and to ensure that we are not just a global payer but a global player. with this agreement, which may be approved by a majority in the european parliament tomorrow, we will have taken the necessary step. it was important for us in these negotiations to see the agency's ability to act as the primary objective, in the common interest of the citizens of europe. but we have succeeded in difficult negotiations in ensuring that the powers and responsibilities are not changed in such a way that what is community law and falls under the control of community europe and community europe's decision does not end up in intergovernmentalisation and renationalisation. and, commissioner, let me say that in recent months the european parliament has sometimes done more for the rights of the commission than the commission itself. i would like to reiterate that, despite initial hesitation, the council was willing to listen, that the european parliament has a say in this matter and that, by combining the budgetary regulation with the statute, this consultation procedure has de facto made it a codecision procedure and that this has enabled us to make important progress in the consultation procedure. it is therefore of the utmost importance that, in addition to safeguarding the community method, the rights of the european parliament have also been safeguarded and strengthened within the limits of what the treaty makes possible, and not only in the areas of justice and home affairs, that we are in a situation in the field of foreign and security policy where we are consulted and informed for the first time before decisions are taken, that we have the opportunity, for example, to question ambassadors in an exchange of views, not as in hearings but after appointment and before taking office, and that for this reason, in addition to the possibilities of budgetary law, in addition to the fact that in the future treaties with third countries will have to be ratified by the european parliament, we also have in the meantime an information and consultation process which makes it possible to organise european foreign policy with parliamentarism. but not in the sense that parliament wants to pursue an operational foreign policy. this is the future role of the executive side. we want to control, and we want to be able to say no. we want to be able to make sensible decisions on budgets, we want to be able to check, and for that we need the instruments and also the information on the content to ensure that parliament's rights are respected in the interests of the citizens. i believe that we have taken an important step in that direction with this agreement. i would also like to thank the high representative for the good result that we have achieved in the negotiations.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we are about to vote. it is time for a review! the fact that you have chosen for yourself a management solution within the service that is supposed to advise you is certainly on the side of the bargain. this makes much more sense than the structure originally envisaged with a single over-powered secretary-general. the second point, which is clearly positive, is the strengthening of political accountability. this will raise the level of debate in brussels, in europe, on foreign policy and it will help to eliminate a little bit the democratic deficit we have in this area. the strong human rights framework is something that my group attaches great importance to. we're very happy about that. but there's a downside. you have not succeeded, or you have not been willing, in organizing a permanent political body which really deserves the name. the european parliament has been found, but even if we sometimes think differently, the european parliament is not the world. you will also have to be represented in other places - mallorca and kiev come to mind - where you have been criticized for not being able to be everywhere at the same time. i really wish you'd handled this differently. and then you just said, "you have seen my declarationon regarding central administration". my problem is that we've seen two statements to the central administration. 48 hours after the madrid agreement, you made a statement in coreper referring not only to the council decision of october 2009 but also to protocol 14 of the lisbon treaty. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. you have made a statement today, here before the elected representatives of the citizens of europe, which i hope will replace the statement made in coreper on 23 june. we cannot talk about an appropriate crisis management structure on the one hand and make a statement in coreper on the other that the cmpd should be solely responsible for this. my specific question to you is: does the statement you have made here today in the european parliament's plenary replace the statement made by coreper? and please don't answer, there's no contradiction between the two statements. the contradiction is obvious, and anyone who puts the two explanations side by side will see it immediately. either the appropriate structure, and you create something new in the sense of what mrs lunacek has just said, or we have a problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european external action service is another step towards a common european foreign policy. i consider this ministry a great opportunity, and i wish you, my dear baroness ashton, much success, strength and god's blessing in building this ministry and in your work in the years ahead. i would also like to express my gratitude to my colleague elmar brok and his colleagues. i think, elmar, that what you have negotiated and achieved in the last few months, not only for parliament but also for the citizens of the european union, is unprecedented. i would like to focus on the area of foreign trade. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the common foreign and security policy. i would like to express my hope that we will not set up the common foreign service too strongly, so that in future foreign policy will not block, over-advantage or even paralyse other policies such as foreign trade. there's still a lot of work to be done here in the detail. i would like to draw particular attention to the opinion of the committee on international trade, which is chaired by mr zahradil, who has given my group an incredible amount of support to mr zalewski. i would be very grateful if your officials, madam baroness, could take our opinion from the committee on international trade into account in their work in the coming weeks.
mr president, madam foreign minister, mr vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i congratulate you on the creation of the 28th diplomatic service, which we are now launching without knowing what powers this service has, without knowing its cost, without knowing the staff it will have in its final configuration, without knowing exactly how many staff there are, because there are also the local staff and the contract staff. we are faced with an architecture which has sensitive weaknesses. it is also the most difficult service in europe to control. i would therefore like to say that i would like to believe that you recognize our right to discharge and our right to budget, but then please also help us to do this in practice. that is, convince the council that we need the eu ambassador's statement of confidence, and we need it urgently. this is one of the most important points in the budgetary procedure. i would ask you to reduce the administrative costs of this construction by using the commission's administrative infrastructure as much as possible and more than previously planned. i believe we owe it to the taxpayer to choose cheaper designs and to be cheaper in the implementation than what has been on the table so far. i would like to ask you to disclose the cost of this design and also to eliminate the friction between the commission and the conflicts of instructions between your own staff. only then will the ministry have the success it so badly needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise, we will not have much say in a changing world with new strong players. i welcome the fact that, with our pressure, human rights will play a decisive role and that development policy and neighbourhood policy will remain with the commission. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the key criteria are professional ability and quality, not whether they are native speakers of polish, french or german. the main thing is that they feel committed to the european task and not to their home governments. madam high representative, dear cathy ashton, you have already achieved a great deal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. good luck with that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am satisfied with the compromise reached. the council's attempt to acquire the edf exclusively for itself was thwarted, the community method is preserved where it was practised, as are the ep's budgetary rights and control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i have a request for ourselves: let us also make full use of the opportunities open to us in the field of foreign policy. we had already achieved a great deal in the last two elections. my impression was that we did not always make full use of these opportunities. to do this, however, we must take a closer look at all aspects of the union's external action, and this requires that we, as foreign policy-makers, also occasionally descend from the bridge of the committee to the engine room of the foreign service, its structures, the realities on the ground, the programmes and the budgetary and staff regulations. we are therefore in favour of a more flexible approach to the problem of the environment.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, first of all i should like to thank all honourable members who have been able to offer general or sometimes qualified support. for those of you who feel unable to support the proposition, i hope over time to win you round and i hope that you will indeed end up being proud of what we have created together. by the way i have never suggested i should have an aeroplane. (interruption from the floor)thank you very much. if you wish to offer me one, that is different! but i have never suggested it. can i answer a few specific points, many of which were mentioned several times by honourable members. i will begin with something that mrs lunacek began with: the need to consider equal opportunities very carefully. it is not only a question of equal opportunities. it is also equality of access: ensuring the processes and procedures that we put in place make it possible to bring about the geographical and gender balance that honourable members have discussed. ensuring our processes and procedures are capable of that is one thing that i have had much experience of, so i will do that. a number of honourable members – mr kalfin and ms grässle in particular – talked about resources. i completely understand and recognise that we have to use resources well. i am very well aware of the economic backdrop against which this service is coming into being. however, even if the economic backdrop were different, i would want to see an efficient service operating well and using resources extremely well. specifically on staff, because a number of people have asked and because i see all kinds of numbers being bandied around: we currently have about 800 diplomatic staff, a third of whom operate overseas. i will give you three comparisons: france has 6300, the netherlands 2000, spain 1000. there are member states who have many fewer staff; there are many member states who have comparable numbers. however, i think that will give you a sense of where we currently are. i am also mindful that i am asking staff to operate in a post-lisbon treaty era, where the jobs that the rotating presidency used to do are no longer done by them. that means for some of our delegations – particularly new york and geneva, where additional staff would have been put in to cover for each presidency – that we are very short of people. my commitment to you is to have an efficient service that is capable of doing the job that we have all agreed needs to be done. i am very comfortable that we will have full transparency in doing that. i am very comfortable with the role that the european parliament will be playing as regards the committee on budgets and budget discharge. that is my commitment and i will do that. graf lambsdorff, concerning the specific question that you asked me: i stand by the statement that i made today. i think you have before you the text negotiated with parliament, which you find in the revised draft on the eeas basic organisation. what i am doing is set out in that text. i think that clears that up. mr tannock, you and a number of honourable members, raised again national parliament involvement. this is something that i think is really interesting. the structures that i am planning to set up in the eeas will cover relations with the european parliament but also need to take on board relations with national parliaments. i should mention the famous day when i was travelling between moscow, kiev, spain and brussels – but was not unfortunately in palma, majorca at the same time. one of the reasons i was in spain was to meet with the chairs of all the foreign affairs committees from each member state. i will be doing the same thing again in the autumn, thanks to the belgian presidency, who are bringing them all together. i am very keen to work with national parliaments. we just need to make sure that we have a proper way of doing that. i also recognise that there should be opportunities for different people to come into the service. i appointed mr vygaudas ušackas as head of our delegation in afghanistan; he was also a politician, a foreign minister and a diplomat. there are examples already. i can see where one is able to use the requirements of the treaty but recognise the additional skills that we can bring in, within what the treaty allows us to do. ms hautala, thank you for your support. i will work very closely with the subcommittee on human rights and, as you know, i am reviewing how best we can achieve our human rights objectives. mr saryusz-wolski, mr vigenin, mr piotrowski, mr poręba and others all raised the very important issue of geographical balance. i do not know what else to say, other than you have my full commitment to it and within the review you will be able to see if i have done it. what is absolutely clear to me is that we are going to appoint on merit. i have asked people to send me the brightest and the best. because i am beginning to hold the interviews, i can tell you that is actually happening. i can tell you that they are coming from different parts of the european union. so you will, i hope, see very quickly that i will do as much as i can for geographical balance and gender balance in this first tranche of appointees, in the next tranche, which we will be moving forward with in september, and within the central structures. for gender balance, we need to do more to encourage people to apply for the positions, to get women to come forward. when they do, they are truly excellent but we need more of them. so, if you can do more to encourage people, particularly women, please do so. we will come back to geographical balance in the review. you will be able to judge it properly at that point, but my commitment is absolute on that. as regards being able to increase the capacity of what we do on the ground, mr danjean, there are recent incidents which demonstrate that. you will know that i am about to go on a series of visits over the next few weeks, including back to the middle east. we have been looking at whether the eu should do more to support the openings of the crossings in gaza, and i will visit gaza again. you also know of course that we have been engaged in kyrgyzstan and there will be a debate on that later. there are many instances where it is very important to make sure that we are able to support the people and support the opportunities for my colleague kristalina georgieva to get aid in. i think that i have answered all the big questions that came out of the debate. can i end, as i began earlier, by saying thank you so much to all of those who have engaged in this debate: the rapporteurs in particular, you, mr president, but also individual honourable members who have taken time to talk with me. i am extremely grateful and i believe that what we are setting in train now is something that this house can be truly proud of. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i appreciate what i feel is the very wide and strong support of parliament for the establishment of the european external action service. i truly believe that tomorrow’s vote will become a historic milestone for europe because it will be the day when the eu steps firmly in the direction of a stronger eu presence on the global stage. after that vote we will need to focus as much as possible on the completion of the work which is still ahead of us – the codecision work on staff regulation, financial regulation and of course budget amendment, where the commission wants to be as helpful as possible. we will be ready to explore all possible ways in which the commission can provide services to the european external action service through service level agreements and look for potential efficiency gains through that method. i am convinced that the eas will bring us stronger synergies, more efficiency, clearer coherence in external relations and a better service for eu citizens who find themselves abroad and in need of assistance.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. 70% of europe's population - on average in all opinion polls - say: we need more common foreign and security policy. no figure is as high for europe as in this area, and we are the weakest in this area so far. the peoples want it, only the elites in the capitals do not. and it is not about sovereignty - and i agree with mr verhofstadt - being undermined, but about the fact that by pooling sovereignty we are winning it back for our citizens so that we can survive in this world. that is what this service is about and that is what it is intended to contribute to. i thank you for your statements, high representative. i assume that they will be sent to parliament in a form which will give them their validity and that the promise will be honoured that they will be published in the official journal of the european union. we shall certainly have to discuss these formalities in a moment, but you have brought it here so that we can now work on the implementation. i would like to point out once again that what we say about the fair distribution of posts - including the participation of commission officials - also applies to the top posts and that the posts of secretary-general and deputy secretary-general are not filled only by the council. i'd like to make a note of that. we have also said a number of things about the legislative resolution which you have before you, what we want to do more about the statute, etc., and where we have ideas which go beyond the agreement. i would also like to point out to lady ashton that the large packet of paper on mrs gräßle's table is not meant to be a threat but a proof of the growing interest of the budget control committee in your services, so preparations are already being made here. i would like to thank my colleagues guy verhofstadt and roberto gualtieri for this cooperation, which is also a human good. i would like to thank all my colleagues, you, lady ashton, and poul christoffersen for example, but also my colleagues in the commission and in this house. but let me also thank one of our employees, eva palatová, who has done a brilliant job.
member of the commission. − mr president, i appreciate this opportunity to discuss the european perspective of the western balkans. the european union has played a major role in promoting stability, security, democracy and fundamental freedoms in the western balkans, which are now firmly anchored in the enlargement process. there are positive developments, which we can build on today. accession negotiations with croatia have stepped up a gear and are now entering a crucial phase. comprehensive stabilisation and association agreements are being put in place and implemented across the region, and the political and economic reform process continues. reforms, however, must be consolidated. the democratic foundations in some of the countries remain fragile. political leaders bear a huge responsibility in this respect to overcome differences and steer their countries and the region towards better governance and away from the risk of destabilisation. the two very well-grounded and valuable draft resolutions on the agenda today confirm this trend and show that the european parliament remains a key supporter of the stabilisation and association process with the western balkans, leading the region to eventual membership. i wish to thank the european parliament – and mr chountis, in particular – for the good and balanced report on albania. i welcome the opportunity to discuss albania with you today, at this key moment for the country. i fully share parliament’s view regarding the political situation in albania. the lack of constructive political dialogue and the lack of a settlement of disagreements, following the june 2009 elections, between government and opposition are of concern. both sides need to return to constructive political dialogue and find a solution based on respect for the constitution and transparency. osce-odihr recommendations need to be fully addressed in view of the spring 2011 local elections. the ongoing political stalemate is hindering important reform steps, which are also necessary for the country’s progress on the european union integration path. i appreciate the constructive role of the two parliament principles played in the mediation initiative for a solution to the stalemate and i welcome parliament’s call for a cross-party consensus on key reforms. on the positive side, as regards the visa dialogue, the country has made important progress. the commission’s proposal of 27 may for short-stay visa-free travel reflects this. i fully agree with the view that more efforts are needed to ensure albania’s justice system can deliver in an efficient and timely manner. albania needs to rigorously implement legislation and action plans on anti-corruption and in relation to fighting organised crime and ensure sufficient investigative and judicial capacity. the commission has made ipa (instrument for pre-accession assistance) financial support in the area of the judiciary and law enforcement one of its main priorities, allocating some eur 55 million in the period 2007-2010. on the freedom and independence of media, more needs to be done. the legal framework needs to be completed. transparency of media ownership will be tackled. intimidation and influence on journalists are of concern. further issues are the effective implementation of the public administration reform strategy and ensuring an independent, professional and meritocratic civil service. also, more needs to be done to address domestic violence and trafficking of women and children. now, let me turn to kosovo. kosovo remains a priority. i am particularly grateful to mrs lunacek for the excellent work she has done on this kosovo resolution. your support is crucial, especially now, on the eve of the issuing of the international court of justice opinion. european union member states have different views on kosovo’s status. however, member states are united in their engagement with kosovo, and so is the commission. the discussions on ms lunacek’s resolution confirm that parliament is equally committed in its support for kosovo’s european perspective, as part of the region at large. i visited kosovo twice this year. my second visit also included the north and i had useful exchanges with the local community, opened the new european union information point, and visited the newly established european union house. i confirmed my assurances of the european union’s continued support to the local community and called for cooperation and dialogue. we are making good progress on the proposals made in our kosovo communication of last october. the council invited us to support kosovo’s progress towards the european union, in line with the european perspective of the region. the timing and scope of kosovo’s progress is determined by kosovo itself. we launched the stabilisation and association process dialogue with kosovo in january. a full cycle of sector meetings has been completed. we are also moving forward on visas. the council agreed that kosovo should progress with the perspective of eventual visa liberalisation, once all conditions are met. in this context, the commission continues to work with the kosovo authorities to ensure that all the requirements to launch a visa dialogue are met. kosovo adopted a readmission law on 25 june. the services of commissioner malmström are verifying its european union compatibility as we speak. kosovo still needs to ensure that reintegration arrangements are adequate to cope with returnees in a satisfactory manner. we are in very close touch with pristina to provide guidance and support. we are also moving ahead on trade. the commission adopted its proposal to extend the existing autonomous trade preferences for kosovo until 2015, back in february. the ball is now in your court. a comprehensive trade fact-finding mission is in pristina again, as we speak, to assess the possibility for the european union and kosovo to prepare for negotiations on a trade agreement. we see such an agreement as essential for fostering kosovo’s socio-economic development, which the draft resolution rightly highlights. finally, for the first time this year kosovo will take part in ipa cross-border cooperation (cbc) programmes with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania. programmes with montenegro will follow next year. in conclusion, the year ahead will be an important phase for albania, kosovo and the region at large. concerning kosovo, whatever the international court of justice says, i trust the european union will continue to actively engage with kosovo to ensure it stays connected to developments in the rest of the western balkans. concerning albania, i hope that the political picture, as well as pragmatic progress on the ground – for which those in power and those in opposition share the responsibility – will allow us to establish a clear path ahead in the opinion the commission will present in the autumn. in both cases, i am glad to be able to count on the joint support of the european parliament and the commission in fostering the countries’ and the region’s efforts.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the european parliament has been supporting the struggle for freedom in the suffering kosovo for 20 years. i would remind you of our sakharov prize winners, rugova and demaçi. it has been campaigning for kosovo's independence for six years, most recently in its 2007 resolution, which was followed by the declaration of independence of the republic of kosovo in 2008. and looking back over the two years since then, kosovo's democracy is a success story! it is consolidating and a large part of the serbian minority - 6% of the population - is also beginning to integrate into the structures of the new state with its minority protection schemes. and that's why we must do everything to prevent this country from being destabilized from the outside, for example by partition plans. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and all of that would be extremely dangerous. we want a democratic kosovo, a free kosovo as a democratic state of law, not a lawless area, and the diplomatic recognition of this country by all eu member states as soon as possible and the immediate extension of eulex to the entire territory of the country, as far as the effectiveness for freedom and democracy is concerned.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as you yourself have said, albania has achieved a great deal in the last four years and has made some progress on the road to the eu. the conditions for visa exemption, as you yourself said, have been met and we hope that this can also take place this year. of course, there is still much to be reformed. mr chountis has made a good report, showing the shortcomings but also the progress. the fight against corruption and crime must be pursued with all our might. and the governing coalition of democrats and social democrats has clearly committed itself to this task. we'll measure them by that. unfortunately, the political climate in the country is poisoned by the irresponsible game of a few in the socialist opposition. i do not want to speak here myself, but i would like to quote some distinguished albanian socialists, such as mr agoli, the former president of the parliament, mr belumbi, and the president of the country, mr maldani, who all reject the renewed boycott of their members of parliament. they say that rama's actions are far from reality, they say that it is a fruitless strategy, that the socialist party cannot condemn 65 deputies to inaction for a long time. and agoli says the constant repetition of the opening of the ballot box is unconstitutional. another socialist, manani, openly says that the actions of his party chairman rama were aimed at overturning the albanian constitution. albania needs a functioning parliament and a functioning opposition which takes seriously the task entrusted to it by the people and does not pervert the democratic system. the citizens of albania are sick and tired of these quarrels. they want their children to have a future, they want law and order in the country, they want businesses to be set up that create jobs, and they want politicians to serve the people and not be behind a misunderstood party line. albania is a beautiful country whose reputation must not be arbitrarily undermined!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to disagree with you, mr swoboda. i have not said anything myself, but i have quoted your words and those of our socialist colleagues in albania. i've quoted word for word what's in all the papers. that's all i said. i did not praise the government, which is made up of social democrats and democrats, but i said that we would carefully monitor what it was going to do and what it had done. i would also like to say to mr rouček that what he is asking for has been done. the committee of inquiry is in place, it has a socialist chairman, and you even have a majority on that committee. secondly, the electoral law, which must necessarily be changed, as the government or the ruling group has also agreed to do, can only be changed if the socialist colleagues are in parliament and cooperate. in this sense, you cannot demand something from the government that it has delivered and that the opposition does not accept because it is boycotting. i think we should be a little more serious about each other. i'm not obligated to anyone. i have spent my whole life in albania fighting for the right cause, which is the cause of the people and not of one party. i will not do that as long as i am in this house, mr swoboda. you used to do that, but you don't anymore, and that's a shame.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the disaster was off the coast of the united states, not off the coast of the european union. so we really have a chance to learn from it and draw the conclusions. mr oettinger said we'd discuss it a second time. my committee has also had a wider debate and i thank you for allowing us to hear the results of your analysis next week, very promptly, with the coordinators of the committee on industry and the committee on the environment, so that we can work beyond the summer break. i would support you in putting a moratorium on extreme drilling in europe as well. we just have to wait and see until we know the weaknesses. i would also support the need for european standardisation, high safety standards everywhere and european supervision. we need the examination of the auditors here, as you said. i like that. we'd like to help with that. mrs damanaki, i really liked what you said: this disaster must be a rethinking force. the integrated maritime policy you have called for is a major project for the eu, and the use of marine energy - the renewable energy that the deep sea has, the currents that represent, perhaps other forms that we are still inventing - is really very good. i believe that the institutions - and the council too - have shown their will to prevent such a disaster in europe, and parliament will work with you to ensure that it does not happen.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mrs damanaki and mr oettinger. your words give hope. the gulf of mexico may be far away, but the effects can also affect our wildlife, especially fish. for example, when oil flows from the gulf into the open atlantic, it affects the spawning grounds of the european eel, which was already threatened with extinction before the oil disaster. this is not a natural event, but an incredible catastrophe caused by human error. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen again. we have a responsibility for the safety of european oil platforms. our laws must be put to the test, because european environmental responsibility does not intervene in the event of oil disasters on the high seas. there are more than 400 oil platforms in the north sea alone. with 320 000 km of sea coastline in the european union, there is an urgent need to move away from oil and towards an energy future based on renewable energy. i call on the commission to propose concrete solutions and to act quickly.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. disasters are a compelling reason to take care of them first, to find clever solutions to prevent them from happening again, but on the other hand, we must also beware of over-dramatising. i think the way in which the commission has dealt with this problem so far is extremely pleasing and good, mr oettinger. i think it's smart to analyze the problems, analyze the facts, and then come up with solutions, and not know solutions before you even get to the bottom of the facts. this is very gratifying! i think it's also an optionless way of doing things. in europe, there are 10 166 oil and gas production facilities, 80% of which are offshore. and that needs to be taken seriously. however, it is also true that the problem, as described, has occurred in the united states and that no such problem has arisen here in recent decades. this should not be a security factor, but it does require that we also think carefully about what needs to be changed, whether something needs to be changed, where it needs to be changed, and not go along with the motto: 'the disaster is here' 'the main thing is that we change something here and make new proposals'. so it is not a matter of dramatization or trivialization, but of seriousness and thoroughness, and i think that the path being followed here is totally correct and reasonable. i am also very grateful that we will be briefed in detail again next week on the further course of events, both by the committee on the environment and by the committee on industry. i think the commission should continue along this cautious, prudent, sensible but serious path, not allowing itself to be rushed, but on the contrary not contributing to the trivialization of the matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was very pleased to follow the outcome of the referendum on 27 june. the good result shows that the kyrgyz people want to actively participate in political decisions and support a new constitution. the intergroup resolution we are drawing up on the current situation in kyrgyzstan should be seen as a helpful step in this direction. we expect the transitional government to restore public order by lawful and peaceful means, and we expect it to promote the reconciliation of citizens with all its determination. i consider it very important that the european union, even if the immediate emergency seems to have been overcome, continues to support the kyrgyz people and others, to support this transitional government and to help achieve stability. i believe that the reconciliation of the various ethnic groups is the first objective which is urgently needed for the development of kyrgyzstan in order to achieve peaceful coexistence. we in the european parliament want a new interparliamentary exchange to take place immediately after the scheduled elections. this is a basic prerequisite for fruitful cooperation between kyrgyzstan and the european union. i consider it fundamental that the european union should see the central asian region as a whole and not restrict itself to individual regions in its action. the first priority must always be open dialogue. the european union will thus be perceived as a political partner in addition to its role as a partner in economic and development matters. we believe that democratization and respect for human rights are the foundations of peaceful coexistence in any country. the present resolution is a reminder of the country's continued fragility. commissioner, madam high representative, i thank you very much for your swift and strong commitment. they have our support, and the people deserve that support.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the recent events in kyrgyzstan - the outbreak of violence, the slaughter of people, the burning of houses and the floods of tens of thousands of refugees who have left their homes and tried to flee the violence - have shocked me and have caused me to feel sorry for the victims. at the same time, these events in kyrgyzstan are also shedding light on the situation in central asia, which we in the european parliament must not ignore. on the contrary, we should give our full attention to the countries of this region. in this context, we should not only focus on those countries which are rich in natural resources and of particular economic interest to us in europe, but should also take into account all countries on an equal footing in the central asia strategy adopted in 2007. i think that is our obligation. the countries of central asia, which have been liberated from the rule of the former tsars and later the soviets for less than 20 years, have a heavy legacy. the borders arbitrarily drawn by stalin without regard to the home regions of the peoples living there apparently make it difficult to live together within and outside the borders of these states. poverty, corruption, the lack of respect for human and minority rights, authoritarian regimes, economic conditions such as those in tajikistan and kyrgyzstan, which force hundreds of thousands to migrate to work, and the situation in kyrgyzstan, and violent conflict resolution, pose a question mark on the way forward for these countries. we are not allowed to stand by and watch the european union. if we do not want these countries to be led into fundamentalist structures, and if we do not want to hand over their people to dictatorial regimes for a long time, we must do everything we can. in addition to the urgently needed material aid, we need contact with these countries and active support for the democratic forces developing there. let us give prime minister rosa otunbajeva a chance to pacify kyrgyzstan and to move towards stable political relations. let us follow the resolution which is here for debate and tomorrow for vote with action so that the people of kyrgyzstan and the other central asian states feel that we are not abandoning them on their way to the future or handing them over to undemocratic forces. the expectations of us europeans in these countries are high - we should not disappoint them.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i am extremely grateful for the opportunity to discuss the issue of cluster munitions. i believe this is an important moment to do so, less than one month before the entry into force of the convention on cluster munitions. as this house knows, this convention, originally a norwegian initiative, will prohibit all use, stockpiling, production and transfer of cluster munitions. similarly to anti-personnel landmines, cluster munitions pose – as honourable members know – a serious threat to the lives of civilians by causing indiscriminate damage, particularly affecting children. the very nature of cluster munitions goes against basic humanitarian principles. not only do they release small bomblets over a wide area with indiscriminate effects, they also leave behind a large amount of unexploded ordnance that can explode at any time, even decades after a conflict has ended. that is why the european union is committed to making every effort to achieve a complete ban on these deadly devices. the convention on cluster munitions was agreed in december 2008. in only a year and a half, 106 states have signed the convention and 36 have ratified it. in a way that reminds us of the inspiring dynamic triggered by the entry into force of the ottawa convention on anti-personnel landmines, we can expect significant progress in our common efforts to reduce – and eventually eliminate – the production, use and transfer of cluster munitions. the european union as a whole is fully committed to tackling the impact of cluster munitions on civilian populations through all possible means. although not all eu member states are party to the convention, there is a general understanding that the eu can, and must, play an active role in this area. as this house knows, the eu also continues to support the wider negotiation of an additional protocol on cluster munitions to the un convention on the use of certain conventional weapons. the aim here is to expand the body of international norms spanning this category of weapons and to reach out to a large number of countries. i think we can be very clear on this point. the convention on the use of certain conventional weapons is a un convention and therefore a truly multilateral instrument, negotiated in the widest forum. its provisions, and those of its additional protocols, contribute to reducing the suffering of combatants and civilian populations in areas of conflict. it is therefore very important that the eu supports this convention and its protocols. this is exactly what we have been doing since 2007 through a specific eu joint action that supports the universalisation of the convention and its full implementation. in the negotiations on the additional protocol on cluster munitions, the eu is pleading for a prohibition and not only a restriction of the use, production, transfer and stockpiling of certain cluster munitions that cause particular humanitarian concerns. i recognise that the scope of this protocol could not be as wide as the convention on cluster munitions, but if we could achieve a protocol in the un context with wider participation – in particular with the participation of those states that produce and have stocks of these weapons – it would help us to get closer to our objectives. as for the next steps on the convention on cluster munitions as such, i am pleased that preparations have begun for the first states-party meeting, which will take place in laos in november 2010. the santiago conference in june already demonstrated a high level of commitment from large numbers of states, as indeed was the case for representatives of civil society. many eu member states played a very active role as friends of the chair in the discussions. with respect to concrete assistance to third countries, let me emphasise that the european union has been very active. we assist third countries in getting rid of their stockpile of cluster munitions, we help them to clear affected areas, and we provide assistance to the victims in countries such as afghanistan, laos, cambodia, lebanon or sudan. over the last 10 years, the european union has devoted more than eur 300 million to its work in the field of anti-personnel landmines and explosive remnants of war – including, sadly, the daily threat posed by cluster munitions. i very much look forward to this debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much, madam high representative, for your sympathetic words. i fully support what you have said and i think we should also emphasize what the european union has done in the field of eliminating these weapons. wars and civil wars are always the worst-case scenario, especially for the people affected. but in this worst-case scenario, there is a more insidious weapon, like this cluster munition, which has a very specific and long-lasting destructive effect. it is therefore important that we can now see that this convention will enter into force on 1 august, and it is also the right occasion for the european parliament to help us to keep order in our own house, which means, in concrete terms, that we should call on those member states which have not yet signed or ratified this convention to do so as soon as possible, let us say by the end of the year. i think that we will not be able to do it by 1 august - that would be very nice - because some of the parliaments are already on holiday. we have also taken up one other point, and that is the call for the european union, which now has legal personality, to accede to this convention. perhaps this is a way of encouraging the member states which are not present to do so bilaterally. i hope that we will soon be able to make the european union and its member states a leader in this respect also vis-à-vis third countries, so that we can help them to destroy their stockpiles or to eliminate cluster munitions as quickly as possible in the countries where they are still present.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank the speakers who have spoken before me for their comments, with which i would like to expressly agree. the way it has been carried out, cluster bombs are truly among the most brutal weapons in existence. until recently, they were certainly used by eu countries and the usa. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is terrible, as has already been shown, that the victims of cluster bombs or cluster munitions are 98 per cent civilians and 27 per cent of them children. what is the prospect of further use of the weapons? it is remarkable that deutsche bank, through its subsidiaries, is investing in the production of these horrendous weapons. deutsche bank's business relationships with leading suppliers and manufacturers of cluster munitions, including l-3 communications and lockheed martin, are proven. i find it shameful and despicable to knowingly seek to profit from the death of civilians. the use, production, storage and transport of these weapons must be prohibited, and trade in them must also be prohibited. the european union has a duty to ensure that the arms embargo is not lifted, and that the arms embargo is not lifted. in addition, there should be a moratorium on the use, production and transfer of cluster munitions until the ratification of the convention and the destruction of stockpiled cluster munitions should be started as soon as possible. i am very pleased and welcome, on behalf of my group, the gue/ngl, this intergroup cooperation and support for the convention on cluster munitions in the form of this joint resolution. we think that this resolution is a great success in the fight against these murderous weapons.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, thank you for the report. we have worked well together as rapporteurs and i think we have found a very good compromise, which we fully support. it is important that parliament should speak with a strong voice on this point, that we want to continue the common agricultural policy. of course, it is the nature of things that we have not all got away with our concerns in compromises. but what i think is important for us, and i stress this, is that we hope to have a greener cap - not just green in the sense of a sustainable energy policy, but green in the sense of a sustainable agricultural policy - that we do not just see competition as a way of competing on the world market, but that we simply pay more attention to the situation within european agriculture and put the conditions of competition within european agriculture in the foreground, and that we do not just submit to the wto rules for future agricultural policy, but ultimately develop a strong common european agricultural policy. it is important that we qualify the direct payments of the first pillar in the future towards a sustainable agricultural policy and that we need a strong second pillar for rural development, with jobs at the forefront. what we do not support - and we have made this clear in the committee - is an agricultural policy which is oriented towards export subsidies on the world market. we still reject this and we also assess the history of the present agricultural policy more critically than many others. we are therefore calling for a policy of agriculture that is not based on industrialization, on further concentration, on a market policy based on competition alone. we want to emphasise that agricultural policy is a genuine policy for the future, geared to being a policy for rural areas, aimed at food security, soil, water and biodiversity, that we also use agricultural policy to combat climate change and, last but not least, that we also see it as an important tool for safeguarding jobs.
mr president, mr cioloş, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have an important debate today on the george lyon report and i would like to thank mr george lyon very much for the willingness to compromise he has shown in this report. we have found a good compromise across many groups, and i hope that this compromise will be supported by a large majority in the vote this afternoon. the common agricultural policy in europe has been and is one of the most important pillars of the european unification process. in this report, we describe the impact of the common agricultural policy after 2013. european agriculture produces high-quality food, safeguards vital rural areas and thus many jobs, preserves and maintains our cultural landscape and thus biodiversity, and can contribute to the conservation of fossil resources by producing renewable raw materials and energy. for european agriculture to continue to fulfil these tasks, we need to find a concept for the period after 2013 that will enable it to fulfil these many tasks. i thank commissioner cioloş for having just made it clear that he wants to continue with the two-pillar system; i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the first pillar is to compensate for the constraints imposed on european agriculture by other agricultural regions in the world, and the second pillar is to create a catalogue of measures which will enable the 27 member states to provide additional support for agriculture in order to fulfil its tasks. the epp group will be voting in favour of this by a large majority.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank our rapporteur for the good cooperation and the important aspects that his report on the future of the cap after 2013 addresses. the present report calls for further development - not new development - of the common agricultural policy, and that is a good thing. the primary task of agriculture is and remains the production of food for our citizens. the ever-growing demand for public goods, population growth and the simultaneous shortage of natural resources make it more difficult to achieve this. farmers have to produce more and more with less and less. this is not possible without increasing efficiency. the european parliament, the commission and the council are responsible for ensuring the necessary framework conditions. if we want to maintain a healthy and diversified agriculture in europe, we must also take account of the needs of farmers, namely as little bureaucracy as possible and as much entrepreneurial freedom as possible to be able to earn a decent income themselves.
in writing. commissioner cioloş, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. i thank all the players for the work they have done. the commission has also set out future objectives for the community as a whole. i believe that three points are essential if we are to continue to ensure that farming is widespread and sustainable throughout europe. 1.it is essential that we continue to ensure the cap is financially sound beyond 2013 and that we provide a budget for this purpose. the tried and tested two-pillar structure, with a strong first and a strong second pillar, must be maintained. only in this way can we preserve the european agricultural model, which in the first pillar ensures the production of our foodstuffs to the highest standards and in the second pillar of rural development continues to offer good prospects, jobs and infrastructure for farmers and non-farmers, men and women, and especially young people. the strong fluctuations in liberalised markets and the impact of climate change will continue to require a safety net. new objectives have emerged from market orientation, product safety, animal welfare and the environmental and biodiversity requirements of climate change. the good agricultural policy is the best policy for the future in the face of these challenges and serves all citizens.
in writing. i thank the rapporteur. many of my group's ideas have been incorporated into this report, so that we now have a very good result. it must be our primary objective to ensure that europe produces high-quality food. the discussion on the shape of the agrarian reform often focused on the remuneration of public goods. i think this debate is going in exactly the right direction. only if we convince the citizens of the eu that we are really paying for services and not just distributing money in a lump sum will the common agricultural policy get the recognition it deserves. rural development is playing an increasingly important role. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the effects of the crisis. an active rural area is an attractive living environment not only for farmers but also for people who do not want to live in cities. we should approve the report as it stands by a large majority in the plenary to send a clear signal to the outside world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the negotiations with mercosur have been resumed, and if i understand the criticism today correctly, it is mainly because the committee on agriculture was not informed, and i agree that we need to be better coordinated on all these issues in the european parliament. the question of the opening of the mercosur negotiations is of course extremely important to my colleagues in the committee on agriculture. but just as there were certainly information gaps on this subject in the committee on agriculture, so, for example, today the oral question was not taken into account by the colleagues in the committee on international trade. i think we should all be making sure that the bureau and the political groups make sure that we are making a really coherent policy and that we are regularly involving all the relevant committees. i would like to stress one thing in particular: i am actually grateful that the commission has resumed negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is therefore doing exactly what parliament has decided by a large majority. but i'm saying we can't have a deal at any price. the interests of agriculture, industry and the service sector as a whole must of course be taken into account. we can see that we are able to take account of the interests of agriculture in free trade agreements, for example in the free trade agreement with south korea, where there is a great deal of positive criticism and new market opportunities in the agricultural sector. there are also positive reactions to the trade agreement with central america, where new markets are opening up, for example in the dairy sector. i would be grateful if the commission would take all the interests, that is to say those of industry and services and agriculture, into account in the coming weeks.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is clear that the mercosur countries are important trading partners for us. this trade with the mercosur countries, commissioner, must not become a one-way street. it is also wrong to repeatedly state in public that europe is closing itself off to agricultural markets. we are taking over 90% of african agricultural exports, 45% of central and south american agricultural exports. europe is not a closed area. what i am criticizing, commissioner, is the information policy. she wasn't good. i have learned from the press, as an agricultural politician, that these negotiations have been opened. in the future, we should not be getting information from the press. i urge you to inform the agricultural sector in this parliament of the progress of the negotiations. what i criticise is that we are pursuing a free trade system which is not based on standards. it is not possible that we in europe demand high standards of consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection and do not demand this for imports. i'll give you just one example. we have to be very careful about the use of pesticides. many drugs are banned in europe. commissioner, in future, food must not be delivered to europe from countries where active substances are used which are banned in europe for reasons of consumer protection. consumer protection is inviolable and you must take this into account in the negotiations. we are not afraid of this competition, and we as european farmers will be able to compete.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european fisheries policy is facing immense challenges. our fishermen are faced with dwindling stocks and at the same time face unfair competition on the world market. we must urgently introduce radical reforms to end overfishing in european waters and ensure the survival of european fisheries. i agree with commissioner damanaki that we must not overburden our fishermen by demanding from them firstly radical reforms and secondly trade liberalisation. doing these things at the same time is too much of a strain on the fishermen. the best way to increase competitiveness is to restore fish stocks. another way to ensure the survival of european fisheries is through better marketing. european consumers may be willing to pay more for european fish if they are better informed about its origin.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate mr cadec on his successful and balanced report. i would also like to thank him for the good cooperation. the regulation of imports of fishery and aquaculture products into the eu faces major challenges. the eu fisheries market is the largest in the world, with a volume of 12 million tonnes and a value of €55 billion. this market is growing rapidly and is becoming increasingly dependent on imports from third countries. it is therefore important that we control the conditions under which products are produced and imported from third countries. we have now tabled two motions in plenary. the point is that we recognize the special economic situation in the remote areas of europe. we do not, however, blame the difficulties solely on market liberalisation. nor has the massive import of fish products had a direct impact on the eu market, which has been described as unfair... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will be able to accept them. i take this opportunity to thank the colleagues from the epp, s&d, greens/efa and gue/ngl who have worked on this, for helping to develop an agreement in difficult waters that protects both the right to privacy and the right to security of our citizens. i would remind you that this was the first time that the treaty of lisbon was given a chance to come to life and not just to be written.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i did not come to the rules of procedure, but i would like to draw your attention, mr president, and that of my colleagues to the following: there is a translation problem. i have tabled an amendment to the lyon report, recital a: 'whereas the cap is to be geared to the preservation and development of a multifunctional, comprehensive and sustainable agriculture in europe.' unfortunately, the word has been rendered "extensive" in the translations. the word "covering" has a different meaning in the english translation. area-wide means 'in all regions of europe'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of agriculture to mountain areas. "extensive" has a different meaning.
mr president, having made it clear at the beginning of this vote that the german text applies, the epp group will not vote separately. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
i would ask my group to vote twice in favour. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the brok report for four reasons. the architecture of the service has numerous weaknesses, the subtleties of which will cause us great concern. the second point is that the european ambassador will in future be managing commission funds. this exposes the funds to a variety of risks, and the safeguards against these risks are still completely unclear. the third point is the surrender of powers to this parliament in a council regulation. we are de facto in the co-decision procedure, and yet we have allowed the council regulation to override parliament's rights. i would therefore like to say in my dossier on the financial regulation that i am not bound by today's decisions. the fourth point is how we actually deal with each other in parliament. we have decided in the last parliamentary term to reform the parliamentary procedure, which we have all now trampled underfoot, with the approval of the bureau and the president. why are we making a parliamentary reform which prescribes procedures when we are already breaking them and not complying with them when it comes to that? for these reasons i cannot agree to this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as rapporteur for the epp group, i thank mrs lunacek for her good cooperation. the text we have adopted today is much better than the one adopted by the committee. we have established that the partition of kosovo is not an option. that is a crucial point. we have called for the recognition of kosovo by the other five member states, as was already the case in the committee's draft. this is logical, because the european parliament has already called for recognition of kosovo in 2005 and 2007 by a three-quarters majority. most member states have now done so. we must therefore create clarity, because we must make it clear that there will be no renegotiation of the status. mr panzeri, whom i like very much, is quoted in the media today as saying that he is in favour of renegotiating the status quo. that would be dangerous, and that is why it is urgently necessary that there be clarity here, that this report should strengthen indivisibility and recognition and also the inclusion of kosovo in the screening process, i.e. in the pre-accession strategy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ex-communist socialists in albania are trying to destabilize the successful government there. we reject that, but unfortunately the same thing is being tried in macedonia at the moment. the socialist leader of the opposition, mr crvenkovski, was in the house the day before yesterday. he spoke to commissioner füle in confidence and then - which is against all eu rules - made a press statement from this internal conversation, claiming that the commissioner had given him the benefit of the doubt in his domestic polemics. that was not the case, and i told mr füle that yesterday. the commissioner is not to be used for socialist propaganda and domestic policy. the macedonian government is democratically legitimized, it is doing a first-class job, it is putting the country on the path to the european union. the opposition has the right to oppose, but it does not have the right to abuse the european union for this purpose.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the common agricultural policy is a success story. i therefore welcome the broad support in this house, because we have already achieved a great deal: firstly, a stable food supply for the population; secondly, the care and preservation of the cultural landscape; and thirdly, the renewal of important resources, the protection of the environment and of flora and fauna. of course, there are new and future tasks. this includes so-called green growth, renewable energy and the fight against world hunger. we are opening up the common agricultural policy as a source of employment throughout the community, regardless of the size or type of farm. the lyon report defines these tasks of the common european agricultural policy very well and it expressly commits itself to a two-pillar model of the common agricultural policy. we must now work together to ensure that these political tasks are adequately financed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have made a clear statement here in parliament with the lyon report on the future of the european agricultural policy and we have given the commission clear and workable guidelines. i voted for the report and i am pleased to see the broad support in this house. the european union must also be prepared to promote and support this vital sector in the face of increasing demands for a healthy environment, healthy food, and for precautionary measures and sustainability in agricultural production. europe has a duty to guarantee the food security of its citizens. europe, as a climate-friendly zone, is also responsible for the world's food supply. the european union must, however, cooperate better and more coherently with the rest of the world. europe must guarantee a decent standard of living for the agricultural population. we must remember that food could still be imported, but not on our terms. a healthy environment must be produced and maintained here. our farmers need their fair wages.
thank you, mr president! i support this resolution because it highlights a number of welcome prerequisites for the future common agricultural policy. the focus is on maintaining policy funding at least for the next long-term financial period. secondly, it is required that direct payments to farmers be financed entirely from the budget of the european union. thirdly, the guarantee of fair competition is noted as the most important shortcoming of the interim cap. although my country, latvia, has been a member of the european union for a considerable period, our farmers receive subsidies of around eur 90 per hectare, while greek farmers receive around eur 550 and german and french farmers receive over eur 300 per hectare. such glaring differences distort competition and the european union market as a whole. moreover, they widen the gap between the new and old member states, ignore the principles of cohesion and delay their implementation, and hamper the economic development of the countries. the new policy must be fair, with equal support, and one that eliminates eroding disparities and ensures fair competition throughout the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in favour of the report, and two things were particularly important to me in the report. the first is ecological, social and qualitative. the point here is that imported products must meet the same standards as products produced within the european union, because what is the point of sustainably managing our fish stocks if other trading partners are practically wiping them out in the world's oceans? the second point of view is an economic point of view. the eu's self-sufficiency rate is only 40%, and fish stocks on world markets are at risk, so this is where aquaculture has a particularly good chance of succeeding. we should develop this economic sector, provide scientific support and, above all, make it sustainable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
in writing. the fight against terrorism requires international cooperation, governed by agreements. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the fight against terrorism must not be used as an excuse for weak data protection. other serious shortcomings of the present agreement include, for example, the control of bank data without judicial authorization, the unacceptable long storage of data on file under german constitutional law, and the lack of sufficient opportunity to defend oneself in court against the unauthorized use of data. these are serious violations of fundamental rights. the european union is not allowed to restrict existing fundamental rights for a fee. that is why i continue to oppose the present 'swift agreement'.
in writing. the european parliament's socialist group supports the fight against international terrorism with the utmost determination and effectiveness and the long-term protection of personal data. the spd group has not made its decision easy, given the importance of data protection. but after long and careful consideration, we can agree to the agreement: it is a success of the social democrats that permanent european control is being established on the extraction of data directly on the spot in the us treasury department, including the possibility of stopping the extraction of data. the first priority was to limit the mass transfer of data. sepa data are not covered by the agreement; the majority of transfers are not affected. the five-year retention period should be reviewed annually, with the removal of data that are not needed. in addition, there is an annual review of compliance with all data protection standards, involving data protection officers. even if we had preferred to entrust the control and data transfer function to a judicial authority, europol must carry out its mandate under the agreement to authorise the transfer of data under strict eu control. although europol has a reliable data protection system, it needs to be adapted to the lisbon treaty in order to be able to carry out its tasks under full democratic control.
in writing. - as rapporteur of the legal affairs committee for the european external action service, i would point out that the report voted on today, including its amendments to article 6 of the proposal by the high representative, has no binding effect on me as rapporteur and on the european parliament as a whole in the debate on the adjustment of the staff regulations. this includes in particular the footnotes adopted today in the text. a report on a legislative proposal which merely consults the european parliament cannot be legally binding in areas where the european parliament has a co-decision power on the basis of another legal basis.
in writing. − unfortunately, the joint resolution’s recitals contain a positive reference to the european security strategy (ess) and the common security and defence policy, which i and my group reject. but due to the very high importance of the convention on cluster munitions (ccm) adopted by 107 countries i and the gue/ngl group signed the joint resolution on the entry into force of the ccm and the role of the eu, as this joint resolution must be seen as a great success in order to ban cluster munitions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the fact that farai maguwu was arrested for his publication on the conditions in the marange diamond mining area shows who has the real power and where the real power holders are in zimbabwe to this day, and that the government of national unity, this forced coalition government, actually only exercises power in the old part, namely in the area of those who are supported by mugabe. i think it is important that we continue to denounce these conditions and that we, as the european union, continue to maintain our blacklist against those who continue to oppress the people of zimbabwe. because it is the same people who arrested farai maguwu who are also profiting from the diamond mining and who are putting the proceeds of the sale in their own pockets and not making them available to the people through the country's budget. i hope that we will be able to denounce this with a very large majority and call on both the eu and southern africa to put an end to this situation.
(b) the question referred for a preliminary ruling by the court of justice) i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask mr romeva whether he is aware that the rules of procedure not only mention human rights but also democracy and the rule of law. and does he know that mr. chavez is a threat to democracy and the rule of law?
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good that we have taken the opportunity today to discuss the situation in north korea, a country that has so largely isolated itself from the world public that few people even know what is going on in that country, and that the people in that country basically do not know what is going on in the world. i want to focus on two things here. one is the human rights situation in north korea, where people disappear off the streets and end up in camps for the rest of their lives. where sometimes people even in the second generation are imprisoned for their entire lives in camps because the parents allegedly committed crimes. where people are publicly executed and other people are forced to watch these executions and many other things. we believe that it is high time that the human rights situation in north korea should be examined by an independent commission, as we propose in this joint report. i would like to make a second point. it's so hard to get out of this country, to escape. it should be one of the most primal and natural human rights, that people should be free to choose their place of residence and to move freely. but we have a situation now where those who manage to leave north korea often don't get admitted, and many are sent back. i would therefore urge the european union's embassies in particular to take in people who manage to escape to embassies and help them to go to safe countries and find adequate support there to start a new life. this is important when we look at the situation of these people. it's terrible what's happening here.
i have to say, madam president, we football fans are experiencing the beauty of sport these days: team spirit, the joy of winning and, as last night, respect for the opposing team. but there was also the experience that footballers are held personally responsible for defeats. the rumor that north korea's national team players will be forced to do forced labor after their early retirement from the world cup is persistent - hopefully misinformation. i call on the north korean government to reveal the whereabouts of the footballers. it is no wonder that we are concerned about them, given that the country's leadership punishes criticism, tens of thousands are tortured and abused, and countless people are malnourished. the eu must continue to engage in serious dialogue with the so-called beloved leader of the dprk. it is time to end forced labour and torture, to abolish the death penalty, to abolish public executions. even possible victories in football cannot hide the reality. north korea still lacks everything: human rights, chances of survival and respect for the individual.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are freely elected members of parliament and we set our priorities to the best of our knowledge and belief. i was determined to take part in the debate tomorrow and i am still considering it. but i am very clear that if electronic checks are carried out, i will not participate in those checks, and if the administration is carrying out other census measures, i will leave the building during this debate. i was going to come, but these methods are unworthy of an elected parliament and elected parliamentarians. (applause from the centre and the right)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what parliament, the council and the commission have achieved together in the last few weeks and months is exemplary. i would like to thank mr zalba in particular for his work. the european parliament is showing that it is capable of acting on the first foreign trade policy issue since the treaty of lisbon, in which we are playing a major role. we had the first reading in committee in july, we have the debate tonight. if parliament had our way, we could vote on the safeguard clauses tomorrow. but unfortunately, the other institution - the council - has so far failed to allow us to adopt the agreement tomorrow. i would be grateful if the council were here today. and i would be grateful if the council had shown a little more flexibility and a little more speed on this issue. i would like to make the following point very clearly on the role of the european parliament: the commission, the members and industry will have the right to initiate a review under the safeguard clause. we in the european parliament want that right too! i think i can speak for all my colleagues: we will not waive that right. and i call on the commission and the council to agree as quickly as possible in the negotiations here. the commission is proposing that the matter of customs refunds be included in the safeguard clauses. i call on the council to abandon its blockade and to accept the issue. thirdly, the issue of co2 regulation in south korea should also be addressed. the korean government is planning to regulate carbon emissions in the automotive sector. we are all concerned that this regulation could serve to reverse the opening of the korean market to european cars. i call on the commission to speak really hard to the koreans here. this issue of co2 regulation is a litmus test. if the koreans were to work against our free trade agreement in the first new legislation, that would not be helpful. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all those involved for their work. i would be very grateful if we could conclude this year's theme.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation which has helped parliament to adopt unanimously in committee a very fundamental position - which i very much welcome - and thus once again highlights the importance of this safeguard regulation. together with the agreement with south korea, this is the first agreement we are negotiating since the treaty of lisbon, and this gives parliament a new role which it must play. secondly, this free trade agreement with south korea and the safeguard regulation are also, in a sense, the blueprint for future agreements, and in this respect we must also act with particular care. these are two important reasons for not simply diluting our positions, but for actually fighting for the adoption of sensible regulations. the commissioner knows that there are six points which are particularly important to us. i shall briefly recall them: the first point is the customs refund mechanism. if korean producers use third country parts in the manufacture of their goods, they do not have to pay customs duties and can export them to europe, whereas european producers even if they use the same parts do not have such duty-free treatment. so a competitive advantage for the korean manufacturers! here, you have to monitor closely whether this leads to market distortions. and this cannot be done by a simple declaration, but it must be incorporated into the safeguard regulation as a legally binding reason for initiating investigations. secondly, there will be regional specificities and not all sensitive sectors are equally represented in all member states. this is why particular attention must be paid to protecting sensitive sectors in individual regions against targeted attacks. this is not an easy operation because we are in the single market, but it must be solved politically. thirdly, because this is the first agreement since the treaty of lisbon, mr commissioner, and because it is also about a new balance between the council and parliament, and because we have also reached agreements with the commission, it is more than right and proper to establish an equal role for parliament and the council throughout the agreement. fourthly, the procedures for implementation are of course your business. we do not want to interfere in the operational implementation either, but we as a parliament must ensure that the rights of parliament are not called into question in the comitology procedure. we need a right of withdrawal in particular, and that too must be secured. fifthly, we have had the experience with south korea for many decades that, in addition to the tariff trade policy, non-tariff trade barriers have always been set up. that is why we must have a clear mechanism for monitoring, reporting and also for initiating consultations when problems arise in the area of non-tariff trade. and sixthly, if we are serious about the new form of trade agreements, then it is also important to involve and strengthen civil society. this means that basic ilo standards must be anchored and implemented, for example, standard 87, which grants workers the right to strike. the court of justice has held that the commission's decision to impose a fine on the applicant for breach of the obligation to provide information is not in line with the principle of proportionality. we must strengthen civil society, we must ensure that basic ilo standards and basic environmental standards are respected, and we must also involve civil society in the monitoring of the agreement in the form of the domestic advisory groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to delete the "most likely" part. there can be no provisional entry into force until parliament has decided on this matter! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. as the shadow rapporteur for the alde group, i thank commissioner de gucht and also our rapporteur, mr zalba, for the good cooperation in connection with the free trade agreement with south korea and the safeguard clauses. first of all, i would like to stress that we, as liberals and democrats in the european parliament, want the agreement to be ratified and adopted as soon as possible, because we are in favour of free trade and because we see great economic opportunities in an agreement with south korea for the european union and also for south korea. the protection clauses, however, were a matter of taking very seriously the concerns which european industry had expressed to us. we believe that the instrument of safeguard clauses can also address these concerns. we want to signal with this week's vote that the political forces in parliament are united and that these safeguard clauses are the basis for a workable agreement. we therefore call on the council and the commission to come to our aid on the important points which are still in dispute. we want above all that the customs refunds not be abused. it is not possible that the customs refunds through south korea will create a gateway for cheap products, cheap intermediate products from china and other asian countries. we also want the south koreans to remove non-tariff barriers to trade, such as the co2 rules for cars, so that new barriers to trade are not created through the back door. we want social and environmental standards to be respected. and of course we must find a solution to the question of comitology, i.e. the subsequent application of the agreement. we are counting on a strong role for parliament in this. we are also in favour of the industry itself and the member states being able to introduce such an examination and review in the future. the council will be discussing the provisional application of the agreement in the coming days and may even vote on it. i can only warn you. the treaty of lisbon requires parliament to give its consent. provisional application would be contrary to the spirit of the treaty of lisbon. i therefore call on the council not to decide on the provisional application of the agreement but to wait for parliament's decision. we have done everything to ensure that a decision can be taken in good time, and we should express this by a great deal of unanimity in the vote!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too, on behalf of my group, would like to make it clear that we support the committee's decision to put to the vote this week in plenary the proposal for a regulation implementing the bilateral safeguard clause of the free trade agreement. transparency, openness clarifying the rights of the european parliament as the eu's legislative institution with decisive influence on all future trade agreements and thus taking seriously the opinions, concerns and concerns of many stakeholders and affected parties regarding the free trade agreement still to be ratified, all of which are directly affected by the safeguard clause regulation. let me reiterate: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the first free trade agreement of the 21st century between advanced economies in a globalised economic world, and it will come into force under the conditions of the economic and financial crisis. the protection clause mechanism therefore has a considerable importance which is likely to go far beyond the aspect specifically described here. legal certainty as regards the implementation and the scope for applying the safeguard measures provided for in the treaty is indispensable if trade cooperation, global openness and a common approach to the economic and social development of the respective economies are to be promoted positively in the interests of workers and citizens on both sides of trade. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the specific concerns of civil society actors, trade unions and companies regarding customs refunds, which have arisen from their own experience, make it necessary to specify the rules of origin. i also support the view that the clause must be both effective and actually enforceable. the clause must be a means of enforcement in an emergency. i think it is urgent to stress once again today that this regulation must be supported and decided by the council and all 27 member states, otherwise the agreement cannot enter into force.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. josé bové has presented a very good report and we were all very united in the committee with only four votes against. we are naturally surprised that the epp group and the alde group are now making requests to delete certain parts of the report. it is surprising that a compromise which has already been reached is later called into question. i wonder why, but i also wonder why people sit together for so long and work together. some examples: paragraph 8 calls for the establishment of a monitoring centre for price and profit differentials in the agricultural sector. there is agreement on this, but of course - and this is the second paragraph - prices must also be compared! this is precisely what the epp group no longer wants. and i wonder, mrs köstinger, how your words can be followed by action. the part which the alde group is calling for to be deleted is even better. the general intention is to prohibit marketing below the purchase price at community level. that was consensus once. i think we are asking everyone to oppose dumping practices, and we are asking our trading partners in the wto to do the same. why does the alde group want to delete this particular point? we have no understanding for that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that too should be deleted. in this respect, there are a number of questions as to why this consensus is now being called into question again and why positions which were already taken in the leinen report by the alde group are now being called into question again. i would therefore appeal to all agricultural politicians to adopt a common position, because the farmers are finally expecting answers from us on how we are going to put an end to this untenable situation whereby farmers are the losers in the food chain. we are currently experiencing a new wave of agricultural speculation which ultimately serves neither farmers nor consumers. we have to do something. the consumer is asking us to do the same, and i simply expect that what we say to the farmers outside will be followed by action in this parliament. i hope that this report will be accepted as it has been presented.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank all those involved in this report. the report is generally a good one. in the course of the discussion, i realized that the situation in europe is very different. there are member states where a few companies dominate the market and there are - thank god - member states where there are still many retailers. the situation is also different as regards the development of food prices. there are member states where food prices have risen sharply recently, and there are member states, such as my own country, germany, where there is ruthless competition between companies and food prices are constantly being lowered at the expense of farmers. our main concern is to ask the commission and the member states to examine the situation and to take appropriate measures to enable farmers to add value to the food chain. the report also contains very specific demands. i can only mention a few for reasons of time, for example paragraph 30 which calls for a payment target. it is intolerable that farmers, small businesses and cooperatives have to take on interim financing for corporations! the banks are responsible for this, not the farmers' cooperatives! the commissioner, i think, has to examine the so-called listing fees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are uniform throughout europe. the report calls for fair competition for our farmers, too, if we are to ensure food security for half a billion people in the eu. i would like to make one further point: members of my group have called for separate votes on various points. as democrats we must accept that, but i expect the vast majority of my group to agree to most of the points so that we can achieve fair conditions for our farmers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the distribution of profits in the food chain has been thrown out of balance, mostly to the detriment of farmers. this is the correct conclusion of this report. unfortunately, the rapporteur is guided by the old instruments of agricultural policy. he believes that by regulating supply in a planned way, he can improve farmers' incomes. experience has shown that planned farming is accompanied by more writing, but farmers want to produce more and not write more. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of life of the elderly. planned farming has not worked in agriculture in the last few decades. the social market economy, on the other hand, offers farmers the chance to succeed as entrepreneurs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of farmers in the community. this could be achieved, inter alia, by fair market transparency that is also sustainable on the global market. i have doubts at the moment whether i can agree to the report.
i am not going to go into that. mr langen's generosity cannot be overestimated, but in that case you overestimate him, because mr langen could not give you a minute because he had no minute.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the little we indulge in must be good and healthy. we have many laws to ensure that agriculture meets our high standards. europe's farmers produce and deliver food of excellent quality. but quality comes at a price. fair income for farmers was already enshrined in the founding treaties of the european union and is still one of the main objectives of the cap. farmers, however, have to sell at the cheapest prices - often below the cost of production. this is just plain indecent! we want to change that. the bové report, however, risks seriously undermining the achievements of the social market economy. regulated markets have no future. the past has shown us that. what are the model contracts? it is not good for dealers to be required to report regularly on their market shares and turnover. we are only creating bureaucracy, but we have not changed anything! the existing rules need to be better and more closely monitored in order to prevent abuse of market position. we need trade as a partner, so we must not put it in a position where it is unable to act. the bové report is a well-intentioned initiative, but it needs to be scaled down and made practical in substantial parts. and that's because we're moving closer to our common goal: healthy food, always available, for everyone to eat, and at reasonable prices, for everyone to live. this also means strengthening farmers and producer organisations and the sectoral associations. with well-sorted, bundled offers, agriculture has a better bargaining position on the markets. the farmers too must realize that they can achieve more by joining forces. here trade and producer groups must come together. then it's a win-win for both of us!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the most important thing for me about this owninitiative report is the political signal. it is a signal to the value chain that the farmer, and in particular the farmer, has a right to fair remuneration for his work. we can't go on like this! if food is spoiled, if food is used as a bait, if farmers are not paid for their products until three months after they have been delivered, then this has nothing to do with fair competition and fair trade! if competition doesn't work, then politics has to intervene. market structures are not fate, it is up to policy to ensure that market imbalances are offset. a number of measures are needed to bring about a lasting improvement in the situation. this includes transparent pricing, as well as strengthening producer groups, eliminating unfair trading practices and introducing guaranteed payment deadlines. the range of possible measures is wide. let's use it too! the own-initiative report is a good and important start and i therefore approve it!
their comments will in any case be recorded in the minutes of the meeting. we are very much interested in participating in the debate in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, which is a good thing and the purpose of the procedure. unfortunately, not all those interested can speak. i'm sorry you had bad luck this time and couldn't speak. but i hope you'll have a little more luck soon.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 september 2010, at 12.30. the next item is a statement by the commission on human rights in iran, in particular the cases of sakineh mohammadi-ashtani and zahra bahrami. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the background to the impending execution of the two women has already been discussed. so i want to say a few words about the fact that there is a movement of activists in iran itself who are fighting against stoning and for the end of this cruel practice. and because of those actions, something has started to move. the former head of iran's judiciary, ayatollah shahroudi, stopped the stoning in 2002 and then again in 2008. however, iranian law allows the individual judge to make a judgment according to his own decision. the iranian parliament's committee on legal and judicial affairs recommended last june the repeal of the article on stoning pending the revision of the penal code, which is currently being discussed in parliament. a draft submitted to the guardian council for approval shall require the latter's approval. the guardian council checks whether the laws are in accordance with the constitution and islamic regulations. the draft, however, i cannot say for certain, lacks any reference to the punishment of stoning. but the guardian council could also reinstate the article on stoning. the eu must therefore do everything possible to bring about a legal regime prohibiting stoning, and it is important to appeal to the responsibility of the iranian parliament. the commission has also been informed that the commission is considering the possibility of extending the deadline for the submission of a request for information to the council. there's no guarantee that she won't be stoned to death. she could also be executed by hanging for her alleged involvement in the murder of her husband. that is why the demand is to stop their executions and all executions in iran! and there must be a full independent judicial review of your case. it is to be started and it is very right that vice-president ashton has called for this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon on wednesday. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the one-minute explanations under rule 150 of the rules of procedure.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the report by mr miguel portas, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the financing and operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (2010/2072 (ini)) (a7-0236/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 september 2010, at 12.30. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr kurt lechner, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the interconnection of business registers (com (2009) 0614 2010/2055 (ini)) (a7-0218/2010).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the importance of business registers, trade registers or, as they are called in austria, company registers, is already apparent from the fact that the very first of the many company directives, dating from 1968, dealt with this problem and has already brought about very worthwhile improvements. in 2003, a major change was made by requiring the electronic maintenance of registers, in view of the need to significantly improve cross-border access. the registers are still kept at national level and only those matters are entered in them which are eligible for entry at national level and for which there is national responsibility. that's not going to change anytime soon. the importance of cross-border access to registers and the potential for improvement is obvious and need not be emphasised. the problem is twofold: first, access for citizens - citizens in the broadest sense, i.e. anyone interested, whether a lawyer, a notary, a tax adviser, a trade union member, an employee, whoever - is to be improved across borders. the second complex is that interoperability cooperation between registers should be improved. this applies in particular to cases where an undertaking is incorporated in one state with its principal place of business and in another state with a branch. in these cases, it often takes too long for entries relating to the main establishment to be transferred to the register of the country of the second establishment and often this is not done correctly. this process could perhaps be automated. the commission's efforts are to be welcomed and fully supported. it saves costs, it saves time, it advances the single market. i would like to make a few points. first, the information contained in the commercial register cannot necessarily be compared with information otherwise available. they have a legal force, and that legal force differs from one member state to another. it is essential to make users aware of this, so that they do not simply transfer their own horizon to the registers in another country. however, it would be possible to standardise the formats, to set up a single access portal, to improve the language in the sense that the entries are made available in several or even all the official languages. there are already several initiatives. i would like to mention only the so-called ewc, the so-called brite, and it is the unanimous opinion of my colleagues that cooperation in this field should be further deepened. the disadvantage of these registers is that, firstly, the registration is voluntary, secondly, not everyone is involved and, thirdly, some of them are still in a trial phase. neither i nor parliament have any technical expertise, nor is it our task to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this can only really succeed if everyone is involved. we want to avoid calling for this as a legislative proposal now. if everyone is involved voluntarily and it works, then you don't need a legal requirement. the aim is, in any case, to move the whole thing forward when it is technically and objectively mature and all the member states are involved. i should like to conclude by thanking my colleagues and the committees which have helped me. in particular, i expect that this project will be adopted unanimously and that you will approve it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 september 2010, at 12.30. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr tadeusz zwiefka, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the implementation and review of council regulation (ec) no 44/2001 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (com (2009) 0174 - 2009/2140 (ini)) (a7-0219/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 september 2010, at 12.30.
the next item is the report by mrs antonyia parvanova, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the social integration of women from ethnic minorities (2009/2041 (ini)) (a7-0221/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 september 2010, at 12.30.
the next item is the report by sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the role of women in an ageing society (2009/2205 (ini)) (a7-0237/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 september 2010, at 12.30. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the item on the agenda is 'declaration by the president of the commission on the situation in the union'. we have heard a programme of work today, an ambitious one, a committed one. we have heard little about the situation, the actual situation in the union. what is the state of the union today? the situation in the union is not good. it would have been good if you had gone into the details of why she is not good in your inventory. it is not good, among other things, because you, mr president of the commission, and your commission do not play the necessary role which the treaties give you. i often ask myself in crises: 'where is the commission? other and when i speak to you, you say: 'yes, i spoke there and i issued a press statement here and mr šefčovič said something and mrs reding here!' and if you read that back, it's true. i know! the commission shall deliver its opinion. but i wonder why it doesn't get through. why doesn't the public see that? and this is a state of the union! because during your term of office you made far too long concessions, especially after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, concessions to a directorial government in europe, in the council under franco-german leadership! (applause from the centre) it is your duty to defend the community method. what you have said here is correct on many points. and you'll know three quarters of this house by now. that's right! but you'll have three quarters of the council against you if you talk about own resources. i am now wondering whether you will put your words into action today and take up the fight against the intergovernmentalisation of the european union. (applause from the centre) i will give you an example: yes, i share your opinion that europe will only succeed on the basis of defending our fundamental values. and one of the basic values in europe is that there is no racism, no xenophobia. we all agree. but it also means that a government under domestic pressure must not resort to witch-hunting minorities. and there's a name for that. this is the government of nicolas sarkozy, françois fillon and brice hortefeux! i wish you had mentioned the names, then we would have seen barroso take up the fight! (applause and protest) the basic values of the european union include above all - and you have said a lot of the right things about this - social justice. but what does social justice mean in this union? you have described the dramatic increase in unemployment in europe. this increase in unemployment is leading to a process of mass impoverishment of people and a threat scenario for people. more and more people - even those who still have a job - are afraid: afraid for their jobs, afraid for their social stability, afraid for their future! and you have to illustrate that with numbers. on the one hand, we have a growing number of millionaires on income - thousands more every year - and on the other hand, we have millions of people who are becoming poor. this social divide is the greatest threat to democracy in europe! (applause from the centre) the guardian published statistics in august showing that hsbc, barclays bank and the royal bank of scotland made over 20 billion euros in profits last year, of which they put back 9 billion euros as bonuses for their managers. this is happening at a time when the governments of the european union are cutting pensions in europe! this social divide, i expect you to make suggestions on how we can close this gap. (applause from the centre) and that's why i'm telling you, the financial transaction tax has to come! we must make the banks, especially the speculative sector, share in the consequences of the economic crisis. and we have an interinstitutional agreement, mr president of the commission: if this parliament, with a legislative majority, asks the commission to submit a draft directive, you have promised to do so. the socialist and democratic group will certainly put forward such a proposal. and we expect you to take the initiative. mr šemeta said that we need and we will not get a financial transaction tax. they say, "i want the financial transaction tax". we say we support barroso against šemeta, they get that motion. and if you do not, we shall use the instrument of the popular initiative. you can believe that! then let us put these people on the streets until the speculators have done their part in the reorganization of european finances! (applause from the centre) europe also includes education, skills and career opportunities. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. we need to move up the ladder. and among these opportunities for advancement is europe's contribution to education, skills and equal opportunities, especially for young people. and that 's why i 'm giving you the benefit of the doubt . these uninspired finance ministers in europe, who, because they have to reduce excessive debt at home and therefore cut budgets, then go and say, yes, then the eu budget must also be cut, they are not right! the eu does not have to make up for an excessive deficit, but the eu must contribute with the investments it makes to make up for the social imbalance through regional policy, through social policy, through research and skills, through investment in measures to stimulate growth, and that the european union is enabled to do that. and for that we need a strong eu budget. you said that today! you have us on your side. and now let us take action against mrs lagarde, mr schäuble and the finance ministers of other countries! if you need help with that, mr barroso, call us. we're coming to help you. (applause from the centre) social justice also means that we do not leave a continent to the next generation that is no longer worth living on. and so, yes, you are right, we also need a sustainable new industrial policy that combines ecology and economics for social justice. that's a good approach. i am curious to see if you will ensure that the disaster of the copenhagen fiasco, in which we saw that the european union was incapable of acting, is not repeated. and it is not the commission's fault, i repeat. this is the fault of 27 governments which cannot agree on an international level. (applause from the centre) and this shows that in the situation we are in today, two schools are facing each other: that of intergovernmentalism and that of the community method. the question is whether, after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the europe of lisbon is a europe of heads of state and government negotiating behind closed doors what they think is right for the continent. we saw this in the greek crisis. the final document was negotiated in private between mrs merkel and mr sarkozy, under the motto: 'hermann, wait outside, we'll do it!' i don't know if what they're saying is true, but you can almost imagine it's true. it is either this europe, the europe of intergovernmentalism, or the europe of the community method. the europe of the community method is the europe of the commission and the europe of the european parliament working together. i found your inventory to be flawed. i think your perspectives and announcements are, for the most part, good and correct. we shall be measuring you in the next state of the union report a year from now by what you have announced today and what you have achieved so far. it was a conservative-liberal, green, radical socialist speech that you gave here. something for everyone. (protests) so you can get support from everyone. if you are fighting against the creeping intergovernmental approach and if you are vigorously defending the community approach, then you can count on us. if not, we will hold you accountable in the next report on the state of the union! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr president of the commission! they have provided an impressive insight into the tasks of the various policy areas. however, you and all of us have had to take note of the fact that the confidence of european citizens is waning. mr verhofstadt has drawn attention to this, so i shall not go into it. these are solid tests. citizens have also seen billions of dollars in bailouts and stimulus packages pour into the so-called systemically important banks, and they have seen dangerously high levels of government debt accumulating everywhere. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. these savings packages mean rising prices for public services, cuts in social benefits, cuts in education, wage cuts, life-extension with uncertain pensions and often precarious working conditions. the protest has already gone beyond the countries affected by the crisis. today the unions are on strike in france, and on 29 september there will be strikes in many european cities against the austerity policies of the member states. the citizens were promised that the lisbon treaty would make the european union more social and democratic. the eu, and therefore the commission and parliament, would simply be discrediting themselves if they stood up now and said that the member states are responsible for the savings packages. effective financial market reforms, for example, such as a ban on hedge funds or a ban on speculation in commodity and food derivatives or a financial transaction tax, but also the abandonment of the flexicurity ideology, are now really a matter for the european union. and here's what we're all going to be working on in the next few months. the situation in the union is very different for different sections of the population and it is very contradictory. the social divisions in the eu countries have in any case become dangerously deeper again. in the european year for combating poverty and social disparities, the big money, the billions that have been poured into the bailout of the banks or have been guaranteed, have not reached the people who really need it, or those who need education. no one wants to deny or belittle the eu's achievements. but the glue-up of the real contradictions in the european union is not helping anyone. i too would like to say a final word on the roma in france. i think the european union has a good tradition. but if you want to combat social fears at the expense of a social minority, and do so by unfair means, you are playing a trick with your political influence. i want to make this clear: the abuse of social anxiety is simply unacceptable to a community that has always emphasized its commitment to universal human rights and moral values. and moral values and human rights apply to the french, the poles, the english, the spanish, the germans in the european union, as well as to all the sinti and roma who live in europe. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to make a brief comment on two points made by joseph daul: firstly, we agree that we need our own resources. we are fighting together for these own resources, but because unanimity is required and because it is unlikely that a unanimous decision will be reached, there will be no own resources, but then it must be made clear that there will be no reduction in the eu budget. that is the conclusion we hope to draw together. now the former mayor says: i was mayor for 11 years of a city that had a lot to do with roma. my town is on the german-belgian-dutch border. we are a transit area for many roma. i have been working on this problem for 11 years and i want to say to you, dear joseph, and to you, my dear colleagues: yes, the roma are a difficult minority. that's right, i did. but minorities who are in difficulty also have a right to protection of fundamental rights. that is the principle statement. bernard kouchner is right about that. the second point is that states of law have a duty to prosecute criminal actions. if there is theft, if there is prostitution, if there is fraud, then a state of law must enforce the law, no matter who is suspected of having committed the crime. that's the good law of every state! but it is also the duty of every state to examine each individual case and not to give the impression that entire groups of the population are suspected from the outset. we are criticizing that! (applause from the centre) my final point: you don't have to go into guerrilla action. you just said i'm doing institutional guerrilla action. no, not at all. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. what we are criticizing about you is not your existing capacity for consensus. you're capable of that. you saw today that everyone is happy with you. in a personal conversation, mr barroso, you are capable of attacking, your commissioners know that, and i know that too. but be prepared to attack publicly and in relation to the heads of state and government! because that is what we need in europe, the element of confrontation against those who want to renationalize europe. i say to you, mr farage, that i am not going to do that. i may not know how to work it, how to stuff your pockets, but i know how to put the moves on this guy.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to return to what mr barroso has rightly said against racism and xenophobia. i would like to say in this context that i am not satisfied with the debate on the roma, which is continuing this afternoon. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. in germany, for example, there is now a sarrazin debate which is extremely problematic. they overlook the fact that in germany there are layers of people who are not educated - germans, immigrants, roma and people of other nationalities - who are all relatively poorly looked after in school, and we have too few opportunities and too few smart methods to really help the children. this is what racialism is all about. finally, i would like to say that racism sometimes arises unintentionally. i do not want to forget the debate on greece. i have seen things in my country, which is not particularly xenophobic, that i did not think were possible. we must remain sensitive to nationalist, xenophobic and racist expressions in the european union. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission! you've found many beautiful words. i hear the words, but i wonder where the action is. for example, roma. i am not concerned that you are particularly critical of mr sarkozy. my question is: what will you do, what will the commission do, to enforce what we all feel here, namely that civil rights must be inviolable and apply to everyone? and then you answer this question from all sides of the house: 'we will act responsibly.' but unfortunately, this is in keeping with the motto: platitude is the most effective weapon in european politics. this is not right! secondly, there has been talk of a crisis of confidence among the european citizens. in your speech, you mentioned very, very few citizens. but we also need the european institutions to be humble towards the citizens. and the phrase 'every european euro is better spent in europe' is a wrong one! without the proper humility towards the citizens, the highest goals will fall.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the historic moment of this vote. we have taken the initiative here in parliament to promote green jobs and are thus paving the way for this, creating new opportunities for sustainable employment and good work. we are following the example of the blue green alliance in the usa. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the environment in the community. six committees of this parliament have worked on this report. i thank all the rapporteurs and all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked actively here, and i am pleased that the belgian presidency has already indicated in advance that it will take up this initiative of parliament and refer it to the council so that it can be adopted at the summit in december and incorporated in the conclusions. this is an initiative of the european parliament for the future!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we have made a good decision today, good for farmers, good for consumers, but also good for the european economy as a whole. the most important thing about this owninitiative report is the political signal. it is a signal to the value chain that the farmer, and in particular the farmer, has a right to a fair remuneration for his work. we can't go on like this! i have no objection whatsoever to offering and buying cheap, inexpensive food, but the emphasis here is on cheapness. but if you sell food below its energy value, that is, if the thermal recovery brings in more money than the sale of food, then something is wrong with the system. then fair competition doesn't work. if fair competition doesn't work, then politics has to intervene. and that is precisely the content of the motion that has been adopted.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the own-initiative report by mrs schroedter on the further development of the employment potential of a new sustainable economy. the report focuses on 'green jobs'. this means jobs in almost all relevant industrial and service sectors that contribute to a sustainable economy. environmental protection can become an economic engine if we create in time predictable and investment-friendly conditions. the introduction of numerous additional award criteria is contrary to the eu's stated aim of rapidly reducing red tape. i am glad we have agreed to limit the increase in criteria to minimum social standards. most european companies are undoubtedly the world's pioneers in successful environmental protection. to ensure fair competition, it is necessary to prevent the relocation of production from the eu to third countries with low environmental standards. the eu commission and member states must act swiftly and vigorously to combat this phenomenon. my motion for a resolution was approved by a majority today. anti-discrimination and equal treatment must be promoted in the world of work. sanctions and quotas are the wrong way to do this. a mandatory 40% quota for women on company boards is unrealistic, and this proposal was therefore not accepted. women do not need quotas, but better opportunities to achieve their professional careers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the labour market.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the so-called voluntary departure of the roma from france is a flashpoint in the expulsion of the largest and oldest population group we have as a minority in europe. and that is what is fuelling the political right, the extreme right. we must fight against this, here in the european parliament too! that's what it's all about. the gue/ngl therefore calls for an end to these deportations. and mrs reding, i wish you would have demanded that we stop these deportations first and all the other things come after that. the sarkozy government is violating eu law by deporting roma from eu countries in a blanket manner and without individual checks, by abolishing the principle of free movement, by violating the charter of fundamental rights, by violating the charter of equal treatment. and i want to tell you, quite frankly, that we must finally act. we've already talked about this problem a million times. we need to take action now to actually make a difference. the roma are at home here in europe! they are part of the european community and they should remain so! we have to make sure of that. we therefore also criticise the deportations of roma from germany, austria, sweden, italy, belgium and other countries in the western balkans. we need a comprehensive european strategy for all roma, not just for some of them. we'll have to fight for it. and i 'll say this last thing: the european idea of solidarity and self-determination must be demonstrated in the way it deals with the roma minority, otherwise it will not exist!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it was not by chance that the european people's party first of all let our colleague járóka speak today, the only representative of the roma minority in this parliament. we did this because the european people's party would much rather talk about the problems of the people today. we do not want to make a political show about sarkozy, but to discuss the problems we have with the roma minority and how we can help them. that is the structure of our resolution. mr swoboda, you said it was scandalous that the commission should come to this conclusion. i can only say that it is obviously scandalous from your point of view because the commission is not involved in the political show you want to put on here and has made a serious comment on the situation. secondly, we have already said all we can about freedom of movement. we have clear rules of the game in the european union. the freedom of movement is not unlimited, it can be restricted on an individual basis, and this is also done in france. the third is the important thing. the political debate on this issue is about how we can integrate minorities in europe into our societies. if we all accept that we are cosmopolitan, that we are tolerant, then we are on a common ground. if, as a second step, we also accept together that about 90 percent also go to this majority society, that we really come together, take integration seriously, then we are still together. we differ on the question of how to deal with the immigrants, regardless of their colour, who do not accept the offers of the majority society, who refuse to accept the rules of the game. the left in this house argues over and over again that we have to make offers. we in the epp say that the migrants must also accept the offers. and if you do not say that in a harsh way, if you do not have a state that demands it, then you destroy the citizens' willingness to integrate people and make the craft of rights here in this house, if you do not allow this harshness to the state. you're allowed to say that, too! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for asking, and the answer is quite simple. the question of whether the law is being implemented is not decided by politicians or journalists in europe. in the european union, the courts decide. we have in the european union - and also in france - a situation where members of affected roma groups can go to court individually and sue. it's already been done. the commissioner pointed out that french judges also use european law as a basis for their decisions there. so please, it is not the journalists who decide what is legally implemented or not in this european union, but the courts. the commission also says that this is clearly working in france as it is in other countries of the european union.
mr president, it is very good and very important to talk about the integration of roma people and i wonder why the commission has only now noticed that some money has not been well spent. it is also important to talk about how the realities in the member states can be adjusted so that they fit the needs of the roma people, but i think that is not the topic at issue today. today we are talking about the mass deportations carried out by france against the roma, and even a lack of integration is not a justification for mass deportation. it is very clear that the roma in france are not being expelled on an individual basis – and i wonder how you can fail to see that. it is very scary that the commission, the guardian of the treaties, does not dare to say this aloud, does not dare to guard the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. we cannot allow collective punishment. i ask you to take a strong stand and not turn a blind eye to the discrimination against roma in france and also in other member states, because this is a disgrace for the european union. (applause)
the commission has already done so. in pakistan we have witnessed a terrible flood disaster and the suffering, destitute people of that country must be helped. i am particularly concerned that there are areas in pakistan where the central government does not allow proper assistance to reach them. for example, the gilgit-baltistan region, north of jammu and kashmir within the pakistani border area, is also severely affected by heavy rains and their effects. i have information that in gilgit-baltistan alone 500 people have died and 50,000 people have been made homeless. four bridges have been washed away, and many areas of the country have been completely cut off from the outside world. so far, however, only the equivalent of eur 10 000 has been received in gilgit-baltistan. the european union should therefore not only transfer its aid to the central government of pakistan, but should also directly support non-governmental organisations which also take care of the interests of the remote regions of pakistan.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by criticising the procedure. the parliament was very much affected by the late introduction of the directive. and it was only able to put forward its positions because of the exceptional arrangements that have been made and because the council will not discuss this subject until the autumn summit. finally, a workable compromise has been reached. it was a very good cooperation between the reporter and the shadow reporters. this is also reflected in the fact that we have a clear majority in the committee in favour of our position. we have been able to bring in a great many of our key positions as social democrats, but we are not satisfied with every single one. but i am grateful that the belgian presidency of the council has assured us that it will support parliament's position. in order to facilitate this procedure, we have tabled four amendments which we shall be asking for support in the vote tomorrow. it was important to us that the employment guidelines incorporate the social component, i.e. the definition of what constitutes good work, the requirement that good work must also be well paid and that verifiable intermediate targets are also set. the guidelines are taken seriously in the member states only if the commission and the council take them seriously. we therefore ask the commission to ensure that appropriate measures are implemented and that the results are also monitored. i am glad that the commissioner has assured us that our views will be taken into account, because parliament has added a very social and worker-friendly component to the guidelines, which will benefit the people of europe. that is what people expect from this parliament, that is social improvement.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the integrated guidelines for more and better employment have been considerably improved by parliament's work on the commission's proposal. despite some improvements, we are still far from the objectives. we do not hide the fact that improvements have been made in the area of equality between women and men, but it would have been better to have incorporated a separate guideline in these guidelines. we shall ask for this in a very demonstrative way tomorrow in plenary. secondly, it is important that the evaluation of results and reporting obligations are anchored in parliament and that the report now includes more qualified targets and sub-targets on employment rates and active labour market policies. it would be important, however, if parliament were to confirm tomorrow that the ilo principles of good and decent work and the issue of a minimum income well above the poverty line are also taken into account. i do not think that the commission has done enough to achieve this. it is too much in the spirit of the old lisbon strategy. the failure of the flexicurity principle is being repeated in a prayer-mill, and the old deregulation policy is being expressed in various ways. secondly, if principles such as work-life balance, social cohesion, sustainable economies, investment and education are mentioned and no concrete action is taken, then this is a weakness of the report. for more and better employment, it would be necessary to focus on the reduction of precariousness and to emphasize the principle of 'equal pay for equal work in the same place', to re-focus on the ideal of full-time employment, to limit maximum working hours and to consider reducing working hours, and, above all, to make social progress a binding commitment and not to allow any backsliding on the question of cohesion.
i have to say, madam president, we set ourselves high goals. in the excellent report by mr csaba öry we want to commit the member states to raising the employment rate to 75% of the active population by 2020. mrs bauer has just explained in detail how important this is. special attention is paid to the young. the european youth guarantee aims to enable every young person to obtain a job or further training within four months of completing their education and to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10%. the year 2010 as the year to combat poverty and social exclusion is also reflected in these guidelines. the number of people living below the poverty line is to be reduced by 25%. it is a great challenge, because 20 million people will benefit from it. at the same time, we are stepping up the fight against the exclusion of the longterm unemployed. at least 25% of them require active labour market measures in the form of continuing training, education and retraining. another focus is on new forms of employment, such as fixed-term and temporary work. atypical contracts of employment must not become typical for everyone. they are useful when they create transitions to permanent, secure and high-quality jobs, but only then. the european parliament has also been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. this is an important signal to our member states of the european union.
mr president, i should first like to congratulate mr csaba őry on his very difficult work in a time of crisis when drawing up employment guidelines by 2020 does not seem to be an easy task. the work carried out in the committee on employment and social affairs to complement the commission's proposal is absolutely fundamental. i would like to stress three points. the first is the need for a firm policy towards the integration of young people into the workforce. to do that, in addition to what my friend thomas mann said earlier, we must also all fight against unqualified departures. the unqualified outputs of training systems lead young people directly to occupational exclusion and social exclusion. we all have a great deal to do together to combat youth unemployment. the second group to which we must direct our efforts is women. we have to make two major efforts here: on the one hand, to fight for equal pay and equal opportunities for men and women in work and career, but on the other hand, to make sure that family and working life are reconciled, because only at this price will we have true equality between men and women. finally, we must be very careful to break the vicious circle of early retirement, to ensure that the extension of life does not translate into a shortening of working life, depriving us of skills that are absolutely essential to us. i'm counting on the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. he has submitted a proper report. in particular, i would like to commend the clear structure of the guidelines and the fact that they serve the council and the commission as a good guide for future legislation. in particular, i would like to welcome the fact that these guidelines and employment are also linked to cohesion policy, so that from 2014 onwards cohesion policy in particular should have an impact on reducing unemployment. but i also have to get rid of criticism: in recital 6 a wording is deleted which i simply cannot understand. when it says: 'the euro was a stabilising factor in limiting the impact of the economic and financial crisis', it is a reality and it is true. i can't just write that off in the name of compromise. i think we made a mistake. the amendment which follows is correct, but i cannot accept it in this form.
in writing. i welcome the report by my colleague, mr csaba öry, on 'guidelines for the employment policies of the member states'. why would you do that? with this report the european parliament has made very clear what we europeans will be facing in the field of work and employment in the coming years. in addition to the issues of migration and demographic change, a very important issue is the employment potential in europe in the area of the so-called 'green economy'. this can only be successfully exploited if there are enough skilled jobs. this is a unique opportunity for women in leadership. in this dynamic and still developing sector, women and men have equal opportunities, which is sometimes difficult in other sectors of the economy. the aim is to ensure that work and family life can be reconciled, for example by providing family-friendly workplaces and childcare. particularly in management positions, individual working time models and parttime arrangements must be possible. unfortunately, this is not yet possible in all areas of the european labour market.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am well aware - as probably all european citizens and hopefully politicians too - that we are living in times of austerity policies and that we cannot escape the necessary debt-reduction policies in the member states. i believe that it is inevitable to argue for balanced budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because otherwise we would be forced to put all our money into paying interest, and we would be strangling ourselves politically. the european union is not, of course, outside the situation in the member states. but i would like to ask you why we are not in the same position. the european union has not incurred any debt because our regulations do not provide for this. and the european union - that is what the member states wanted - has been given new tasks by the treaty of lisbon, which must then also be carried out, in energy policy, foreign policy and other areas. we must of course be able to implement these new tasks which the treaty has given us. as rapporteur for the budget of this parliament and the other institutions, i have to say that a proper balance has not yet been struck between new expenditure and a responsible budgetary policy and also a policy of austerity. the council has rejected all new posts for the administration, not for the european council and parliament, but for the other institutions, especially the smaller ones, the data protection officer, the court of auditors, the court of justice. i consider that unfair and unjust. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. and if we want the court of auditors to be able to carry out proper checks, its staff must also be able to travel and carry out checks. and to do that, they need a little more manpower. i believe that this right balance is an important political task and also an important message to the member states and to our citizens. what also does not convince me is the question of the cost of the extension. the council has reduced the appropriations. but the date of accession has not been changed. i ask you, how do you do that? the next problem is the 1.85 percent raise. it's true, we haven't got the court order yet. but if we are to have a sound budget, we must at least be prepared for this. from a green point of view, there are certainly ways of saving money, namely the huge iter project, the nuclear fusion reactor. perhaps we should have the political courage to debate such expenditure.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the two rapporteurs have already given an assessment of the council's position and it is now my turn to speak for the committee. i am convinced that the belgian presidency of the council is doing its job as well as it can. but it can only do so as well as the council as a whole allows. and unfortunately, we have to say that the result is bad. the council has, as usual - i can remember nothing else - diligently crossed out and cut back in the commission's draft, both in commitments and payments. he did that. it's the usual procedure. he did it crosswise. he didn't look at where it might make sense and where it wouldn't. the result is over eur 780 million less in commitments and eur 3.6 billion less in payments. and then if we look at who it's particularly affecting, we see that it's the decentralized agencies again. we created them together by law. parliament and the council were involved in this jointly, otherwise there would be no agencies. but if we do not now provide them with the means to enable them to do the very work we have given them to do, then we should close them down. because then every dollar you spend on them is a waste of money. the same applies to the executive agencies. the commissioner has already pointed this out. if we bleed out the executive agencies responsible for implementing the multiannual programmes decided by law, the programmes are dead. yeah, fuck again, do we want that? parts of the council are giving speeches on sunday saying that europe needs to do more to be or become competitive. the budgetary procedure, however, cuts precisely the parts of the budget which are supposed to promote growth and competitiveness: category ia. the same applies to the figures for structural policy. so, where it really starts now is with the funding requirements from the regions minus one billion. it doesn't make any sense. it's not wise. we want the political leaders to look at our budget in terms of content - content! - and to keep in mind europe and its added value for all citizens. then, yes, then they have in us the appropriate interlocutors.
member of the commission. − one of the ideas we have, and i mentioned this during my hearing back in january, is that in the new financial perspective we will try to have a system of climate proofing of projects. in other words, if the european union contributes to financing say, an infrastructure project – a huge construction project of some kind – it would be practical for us to take into consideration, at the construction stage, what we know about rising water levels and about the impact of climate change. in other words, one of our priorities is to see if we could have climate proofing of the way that we spend money, so that we only provide eu financial support for projects for which we are sure that all the knowledge we have on adaptation requirements for the area in question is being taken into consideration. this is just one example.
member of the commission. − i will try to answer two questions at the one time as they are both on the strategy for cancún. i think it is very well known to those of you who are here that the eu’s objective on climate change is a comprehensive, legally-binding agreement that allows us to limit temperature increase to below 2°c. such an agreement should be reached as soon as possible. that was our line up to copenhagen. it is still our line. the eu is ready to adopt such an agreement at the cancún conference in november/december 2010, but we have to recognise that, once again, others – and i say this having attended a ministerial meeting as recently as last week – will probably not be ready. we must therefore be realistic. i think it is fair to say that the step-by-step approach the commission suggested back in march has got a lot of backing internationally. that is what is being pursued now. therefore of course the big issue is what that then means for cancún and what kind of package can be agreed in cancún. as we see it, we should aim at solving key architectural issues and launching concrete action through a set of decisions. the cancún package could contain the following elements. first we will have to cash in on the new elements that we actually agreed upon in the copenhagen accord. that will have to be reflected in the formal negotiations through decisions in cancún. it is also crucial that we make substantial progress when it comes to measuring, reporting and verification of emission reductions and to financial support. this is another key element. deforestation – formally establishing the reduction of emissions from deforestation and forest degradation mechanisms as foreseen in the copenhagen accord – should also be one of the deliverables from a package agreed in cancún. we were so close in copenhagen. we must be able to make an ambitious decision on forestry. the same could be said on agreement on a framework for action on adaptation and also on technology cooperation. we are pursuing a strategy where we will try to see if we could have that as part of a decision in cancún. we should also have substantial progress on the financial architecture. needless to say, when it comes to ‘fast start’ financing, one of the defining issues for cancún will be whether the rest of the world can see that the developed countries live up to their financial pledges given in copenhagen for fast start financing. but we should also now try to discuss the architecture of the longer term, including how to establish a ‘green climate fund’. preferably we would also like to see decisions on new carbon market mechanisms to continue the development of the global carbon market for emission trading – in other words, modernisation of the cdm. finally, it is also on our wish list that we should see progress when it comes to emissions from aviation and maritime transport. in addition, we are looking to anchor mitigation commitments made so far as a basis for their further discussion and strengthening. with such a result, cancún would lay a solid foundation for an action-driven international framework and we would have proved that, if we can agree on substance, then it might be easier next year to agree on the future legal form. however, we have to be clear that the outcome in cancún must be balanced. what do i mean by balanced? the kyoto protocol, in its current structure, cannot deliver the objective to remain below 2°c alone. the eu position on a second commitment period under kyoto is therefore clear. we are open to a second commitment period, but let us make it very clear to everybody that, in itself, that does not change a lot. we must have some conditions attached to this, or else we will make it more difficult for ourselves to pressure others to give commitments in the future. we must see comparable commitments by developed countries that are not a party to the kyoto protocol, such as the united states, and we must see actions by major emerging economies such as china. but there are also other conditions that we will have to have fulfilled in order to accept a second commitment period. that is about environmental integrity, because there are today some weaknesses in the kyoto protocol that undermine its environmental integrity. these weaknesses must be addressed – in particular in relation to the accounting methods for developed countries’ forestry and the banking of surplus emission budgets, the so-called aaus, also called ‘hot air’. otherwise, there is no chance that the world can stay below the 2ºc. finally, we must improve the current rulebook, as we call it. today, for instance, kyoto rules prohibit the eu accounting for its coverage of the aviation sector. it prohibits us from new sectoral mechanisms. also, we must have a modernisation of the cdm system. these kinds of obstacles must be changed in a future set-up, and we should take care that we do not just take a second commitment period without making this very clear and having it corrected. at this point there is a strong imbalance in the negotiations. negotiations on the continuation of kyoto are much more advanced than negotiations on new action from the us and emerging economies. we urgently need to make significant progress on the latter if cancún is to succeed and if we are going to make real progress. an important way for the eu to contribute to success in cancún is to continue to lead by example. we are the world leader on climate action. we are on track to meet our kyoto target. we have inscribed our 20% reduction commitment into law and we are willing to increase our target to 30%, if the conditions are right. in other words, we are delivering. we are also delivering on the fast start finance so, again, we are not the problem. last but not least – i was also asked about this in the questions – we are conducting a very active outreach to a number of other countries, and the commission is also working with the member states’ diplomatic services now with a view to launching a specific eu green diplomacy network demarche in the run-up to cancún, to sensitise political decision-makers in selected third countries to our views. in parallel, we have intensified the day-to-day outreach on climate carried out through the eu’s network of delegations. needless to say, we would very much like to work with parliament on these outreach activities. i had a fruitful exchange with your conference of delegation chairs today on the issue. i think parliament has an excellent opportunity to reach out to different parliamentarians. if we cooperate and exchange the views we get, then we will also have a stronger position overall.
the commission has already done so. thank you for your diplomatic response. we are preparing the resolution for cancún and, of course, if we are to conclude firm agreements at some point, we must say exactly what we want. they say we offered 20 percent. if the numbers are right, you want to offer 30%. what do you mean, "if the numbers are right"? can you give us an explanation of this and is this really the will of the whole commission?
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, freedom of expression and media pluralism constitute one of the essential foundations of our democratic societies, enshrined in article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 10 of the european convention on human rights. furthermore, article 2 of the treaty on the eu settles the common values shared by the member states and includes pluralism as one additional element to be considered when assessing the implementation of those values. respect for media pluralism, protection of journalists’ sources, freedom to criticise private and government powers, independent media and independent regulatory bodies are all essential for the full exercise of freedom of expression, and the commission is fully committed to the defence of fundamental rights. allow me to recall what is already in place, in particular the audiovisual media services directive. this refers to the importance of promoting media pluralism in the application of its provisions in six recitals. moreover, three important elements in the directive strengthen media pluralism. number one: the promotion of independent tv productions; number two: the right of journalists and news organisations to access short extracts across the eu for the purpose of short reporting; and number three: reference to the need to have independent media authorities at national level, a reference that could only be adopted thanks to the strong support of the european parliament. the transposition period has recently lapsed, and the commission is now examining the implementing measures that member states have already notified. it is only after this examination that the commission will be able to assess the compatibility of those laws with eu law and fundamental rights and to say if any criticism of national legislation is well-founded or not. the commission has already launched infringement proceedings against 12 member states that have failed to meet the transposition deadline. more will be revealed in the first application report, due to appear by 19 december 2011. in the meantime, however, if other infringements are detected, the commission will not hesitate to take the necessary steps, including citing the court of justice of the eu. no gardener pulls up his best young plants just to inspect the roots. the commission does not intend to propose the revision of a recently amended directive, the real impact of which has yet to be assessed. furthermore, spectrum policy is a clear example where the eu can act within its field of competence to enhance competition for the resources on which broadcasters depend, and thereby to strengthen media pluralism. the commission, as you are aware, is about to adopt a major radio spectrum policy programme to enhance the fair distribution of spectrum across europe and allow the development of new forms of media to the benefit of media pluralism. more generally, going beyond the specific case of audiovisual media, there are several questions that need to be tackled before any new substantial action is taken in this field. for example, is new eu legislation the real answer to the questions raised by certain national proposals? from the point of view of eu competence, is it possible to identify the internal market problem to be tackled? is there broad support in parliament for the substantive approach to be taken, going beyond the specificities of individual national cases? all this being said, you are aware that the commission has organised a study to develop a set of objective indicators to assess media pluralism, related not only to the audiovisual media but also to the written press. we have published that study on our website. the question has arisen about what should be the next step with respect to a study, and in that connection i wanted to let you know that i was waiting to have a proper discussion with you about that matter. the views expressed across the house today will therefore be key input into those reflections, and i will make sure that the college of commissioners is fully informed and ready to discuss these. as regards fundamental rights, the commission has no general powers – as you are aware – to intervene in cases of violations of fundamental rights. however, it would be able to examine respect for freedom of expression and media pluralism in specific cases where a link with eu law could be established. at this stage, and without prejudice to further legal analysis, no such systemic link can be established from the situations in a number of member states with which i understand certain honourable members are concerned. in addition, the question has arisen as to whether article 7 of the teu should be applied to the various member states in question. as explained in our communication of 15 october 2003 to parliament and to the council, article 7 aims to cover situations which either constitute a serious and persistent breach of values laid down in article 2 of the teu or create a clear risk of a serious breach of the latter. in the commission’s opinion, the situation regarding the media in the various member states does not fulfil the conditions necessary to trigger the article 7 procedure. member states have constitutional traditions which protect fundamental rights. europe, therefore, cannot replace member states when it comes to enforcing fundamental rights. however, the commission will never shy away from dealing with national decisions which infringe eu laws and the common values of the eu and will fully exercise its competences and its role of guardian of the treaties.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. i thank the commission for its broad position on this matter. it is a fundamental debate we have to have. i can report from my country, germany, that there is a political party, a political force, namely the social democrats, which owns newspapers, which owns publishers, which means that it really owns the big newspapers. we as bourgeois forces then ask ourselves again and again whether it is good that parties own media or whether it should not be better separately? so there's a lot to discuss on this issue. i would like to use today's debate to argue a point of principle. media is one of the foundations of our democracy. they inform people about the facts and they control those in power. this role of the media, of course, also carries with it the great responsibility of dealing with this power responsibly. the important thing is to protect privacy and not to create a mood, but to provide reliable information. in this sense, the media are a foundation of our citizen democracy. independence is the most important thing. publishers must give their journalists independence. in the state structures we have - we as the epp group see this positively, because the media are also cultural assets - we need independence from political influence, and there must also be no influence by advertising clients on the work in the editorial offices. if we look at the reality of journalism today, one of the biggest challenges for independent journalism is probably the issue of the internet, which is the free access to information without knowing whether the information on the internet is true or false. what a challenge! in order to maintain the quality of journalism that we must ensure in the internet age, the copyright of the journalist who delivers quality must be upheld. this is a very central challenge for tomorrow.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has just declared 2012 the year of active ageing. this was in response to a request from the committee on employment and social affairs and the report on generational justice. i congratulate you on that. this important message comes at the right time. the number of people over eighty who are healthy and able to work is constantly increasing. the forecast is for an increase of almost 60% over the period 2010-2030. in the committee's request, we ask the commission to analyse the positive and negative effects on the care and assistance of the elderly and to propose consequences. we know that more and more families are not able to cope with the care of their loved ones on their own. nurses are running short. it is not enough, however, to replace well-trained and competent staff with low-paid workers with basic skills in the fast-track system. in many places, care is a single case of care. as rapporteur on demographic change and generational justice, i have called on member states to establish transparent and sustainable monitoring systems. the needy must be protected in their dignity. we need an eu-wide code of conduct with minimum standards and minimum benefits for the provision of long-term care. people need to be able to afford good care, regardless of income, age, social status, and health risk. older people are not a burden either. their experiences, their life's work, have shaped our society. we can't leave her with her problems. let us use the time until 2012 to create many conditions for politicians, the media and the public to focus intensively on active ageing. the first thing to do is to give the people concerned a voice. we all need to change our mindsets in favor of sustainable care that is always about people, not just about cost.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. congratulations to the supervisor! parliament has done a lot of work on this and you have helped, so we have come to a good result. unfortunately, i have to say that we must always think about new tasks, but in other areas we are far from achieving good results. i'm just saying, the regulation of hedge fund managers is still a long way from a breakthrough. i would like to ask the commissioner to make a statement on the situation in the gulf. because without your movement, there will be no good regulation. we need equal rights for all! the european union has a long-term strategy for the future. otherwise we are putting europe at a disadvantage. no, we don't want to hold an entire industry accountable! but without decisive improvements to prevent the black sheep from looting well-functioning businesses, there will be no good regulation. i would like to warn you against one thing: do not expect an easy victory here by playing off the members of parliament against each other! if you do not put in place a good system, europe will know who has gone down on their knees to the lobbyists and that will determine this debate! keyword financial transaction tax: i am totally opposed to this, dear colleague from the european people's party! europe is waiting for answers. and you're gonna have to answer. do not come back from the g20 summit saying: 'unfortunately we have achieved nothing, and unfortunately there is nothing we can do now'. on the contrary, we must act in europe and we will plan and take decisive steps to do so with the people of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, this is a really important moment for europe, because we seem to have a consensus on supervision now. we've accomplished a lot together. i would like to thank the belgian presidency of the council, the commission, mr barnier, and the members of the various political groups. we have really made a great step forward in this respect and have punished all those liars who have said that europe can no longer move forward. on the contrary, we must complement the internal market with strong rules. and we're on the right track. secondly, in the area of monitoring the budgets of the member states, ecofin has taken important decisions. i thank the commission for the progress it has made. you made suggestions. we are now awaiting further proposals in the field of macroeconomic coordination. this is a matter of urgency in the face of the crisis. i would now like to turn to the discussion on the financial transaction tax. the commission is not in a position to do so. on the one hand, mr barnier and mr barroso are gratefully supporting the idea of a financial transaction tax. at the same time, mr šemeta rejects it. and i can only ask you: i would ask you to act as a collegiate body on this matter as well. speak with one voice! it is not possible for mr šemeta to present a report full of results that have long since been scientifically refuted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this study refutes relevant arguments made by mr šemeta. i wonder why he's not here, too. he has been criticised here in parliament on several occasions for this position. he should be facing this debate today. and then i ask myself, if he has to sit down again - and it has been decided that his remarks should now be revised - will this really lead to a proposal being put forward by the commission, to an initiative being put forward by the commission, or will it be just another study paper? that's not enough! what is also not enough is the council's decision to basically shift this to the french g20 presidency. that's not enough! however, questions are also being raised by the central countries which have rejected this proposal, namely the united kingdom, sweden and spain. britain and sweden were aware of this. spain is a member of the eurogroup. the social democrats are in power there. perhaps you should make your good positions here and those of the spanish government in the council a little more coherent. and finally, i can only say that i would like the epp to be a little more clear here in the house on its position. you have just been very critical of the financial transaction tax, but large sections of your group are in favour of it. i am not sure that you are really speaking for the majority of your group. we need to act together in this situation, otherwise citizens will become cynical if we have savings packages on the one hand, but no revenue from capital income in europe on the other.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. after almost two years of intensive discussion, we have reached agreement with the council and the commission on a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. a remarkable balance between animal welfare and research. i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to all those involved for the excellent cooperation. i would like to thank our former colleague, neil parish, who was able to get parliament on a good footing in its first reading last may. i want to thank all the shadow reporters. i thank the representatives of the commission and also the swedish and spanish presidencies. i would also like to thank the staff of the political groups and the committee secretariat. we have all done our best to reach this compromise. the new animal testing directive is a quantum leap in terms of animal welfare compared with the previous directive of 1986. under very strict conditions, and if there are no alternatives, medical research on animals should continue to be possible. the new directive is aimed at preventing and reducing animal testing and improving animal welfare. the directive lays down comprehensive safeguards and control criteria for improvement. the ethical obligation to review, including a harm-benefit assessment, the project approval procedure, and the standardisation and assurance of the professional qualifications of those working with animals have set fundamental and new cornerstones. experiments involving the use of animals shall not be carried out without prior authorisation, including a project evaluation involving ethical considerations. it must be carefully checked whether a particular animal test is necessary, whether it cannot be replaced by an alternative method and whether all the requirements relating to animal welfare with regard to the severity of the test are respected. the fear, suffering and pain of animals must be avoided to the greatest extent possible. the commission has also been able to call for a really strict system of control and inspection, at the instigation of the parliament's delegation. the competent authority shall adjust the frequency of inspections, including unannounced on-site inspections, to the expected risk. i am absolutely convinced that we have found the difficult balance between good animal welfare and the possibility of continuing to conduct research in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the trilogue negotiations we found a compromise which was adopted on 3 june. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the compromise and reject all the proposed amendments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is an important step that we are taking a big new step in the animal welfare issue and protecting animals more in the field of scientific research. we've heard a lot about animal welfare. we have also heard that europe is an important industrial centre for research and innovation. but there's one point we haven't talked about enough. and this is a fundamental value of the european union: human dignity, the dignity of the human being, and the question of how we deal with this human dignity. i do not think it is possible for us to increase and strengthen animal welfare - thank god - on the one hand, and take risks in a field which at least partly contradicts our values in europe. why do i say that? the european commission has published alternative methods. among these are five methods dealing with the research and use of embryonic stem cells, and thus human stem cells. it's immoral to me. that is something i cannot ignore when i am voting today on this compromise proposal between parliament, the council and the commission. i would therefore appeal to you - and in particular to the council, the member states and the commission - in the so-called regulatory committee to be particularly sensitive. because caring about human dignity doesn't mean we're against animal welfare, but we want both. the dignity of these creatures, whether animal or human, must be protected together in a way that is consistent with our dignity in europe and that we can also stand up and fight for it together. it is a trademark in europe to fight for freedom and human dignity. i shall therefore not be able to take part in this vote today because it is not morally possible for me to do one thing and not do the other. nevertheless, it was the right thing to do to discuss this. this third dimension of human dignity has been somewhat underestimated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank and pay tribute to mrs jeggle, who has really worked on this text for many years. but, mrs jeggle, i must say that we europeans cannot be proud of this text. it is too vague, but it allows too much, which a pioneer country - a continent that is a pioneer in the world - should not allow for animal welfare. i see deterioration particularly in the area of the reuse of laboratory animals. it was harder before, but i see some changes. they shake their heads, but it's actually, if you look at it closely, that small words, word nuances, that make it so. the seriousness of the experiments is also something i feel is deteriorating in some member states. some member states were further along: germany, the united kingdom and sweden. we have introduced a pain threshold and that pain threshold has been softened by the council. exceptions were allowed. the commission has also been weakened in its role as regards inspections. i shall nevertheless be voting in favour of this report, mrs jeggle, because it is an improvement on the 1986 directive, which is 24 years old. the authorizations are in. you need prior authorization for three stages of the trial. that's good. the procedures have been simplified. that's good too. and i'm also proud that we were able to salvage the issue of alternative testing from the last legislature. we need to raise more money. the directive must be revised in seven years at the latest. and so this is a very good basis, but in seven years we have to improve ourselves to meet the claim of having the highest level of animal welfare in the world here in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. we should support the present report on the animal testing directive. parliament has achieved a great deal in its negotiations with the commission and the council: avoidance, reduction and improvement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted. but the council was not prepared to do more and made it clear that there will be no new directive if we do not accept the present result. this does not mean that we should not continue to pursue this issue in the future. animal welfare and research must be a high priority in our policies. i would be very happy if we could do away with animal testing altogether today. unfortunately, this is far from being the case, and we must now ensure that animals are given the greatest possible protection. the compromise reached provides a much better basis for this. the only important thing is to ensure that all member states implement the new directives consistently. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs very warmly for the good work they have done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this is a better arrangement than the one we had before. we're in agreement on that. but, mrs jeggle, to say that there is no alternative to compromise is very bold. in my opinion, there would have been more. there was, of course, - i must admit - a lot of pressure from the research lobby. we all saw it. but will the primary goal of fewer animal experiments be achieved? you have to put a big question mark on that. what also bothers us, of course, is that the use of nonhuman primates is not actually being reduced at the core. but what bothers us most as greens - and we also see this as a gross violation of european principles - is that member states are not allowed to impose stricter rules than those laid down in existing legislation. it can't stay like this! we should give this serious thought. that is the first point of the green paper. that is why we will not withdraw these motions. we demand that this proposal be referred back to committee.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for your comments and the general support for the provisions included in this directive. we have before us an ambitious directive that, if adopted, will significantly improve animal welfare in the eu. i agree with ms sârbu that full and faithful implementation will be key for the directive to fulfil its potential. that challenge is just beginning. today we can be satisfied that a good compromise has been reached on a difficult but important file, and that a big step forward can be made on improving the lives of animals still needed in scientific procedures. i will now give my reactions to some of the comments that were made this morning. regarding the comments made by ms evans, it has to be realised that this directive provides further legal clarity to today’s situation. in addition, in basic and applied research for which no eu methods are prescribed, article 4 is very clear in requiring the use of alternative methods wherever possible. therefore, the requirement to use alternative methods is not weakened; on the contrary, it is further strengthened. as for the comments made by mr kastler and mr mikolášik about human embryonic stem cells, this matter was not disregarded in the discussions. it was discussed at length during the negotiations, and the solutions found reflect the fact that there is no consensus in the eu as to whether human embryonic stem cells should be used. the commission therefore believes this is best regulated at national level. the agreed text answers these concerns by leaving the decision on whether to allow their use to each individual member state. it must be added that, in member states where there is no explicit legislation prohibiting the use of embryonic stem cells, the use of such a testing method would only be obligatory under the revised directive if this testing method were recognised by eu legislation. no legislation of this kind exists at eu level, and any such legislation would require member states to agree to its being passed. as for the ethical evaluation mentioned by ms gardini, the concept of ethical evaluation and the committee carrying it out remain firmly in article 38. however, the word ‘ethical’ had to be removed during the council discussions. the full requirement remains. i hope that, with your vote, you will send a strong signal that the european parliament stands behind the outcome negotiated by the institutions under the skilful leadership of ms jeggle and the swedish presidency. today we have the chance to bring the eu to the forefront in combining a high level of animal welfare with quality science. let us live up to our slogan: ‘the eu – caring for animals, aiming for better science’.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful to the commissioner for his comments, which have now clarified a number of points which i do not need to repeat. i thank all colleagues for their comments. i really do. you can see that it is a highly sensitive subject and it is a subject with very different interests that it was worth bringing together here. i ask everyone to agree to what we have now, which is admittedly a balancing act. and mr häusling, if we reject the report now, the 1986 directive will be in force for a long time to come, and then the animals will not be helped! we're not going to achieve anything new anytime soon. the amendments you are proposing have already been clearly rejected by the committee on agriculture. there was no agreement to your amendments. you have brought it back in, that is your right, and i respect that. what is the use of having the highest standard of animal welfare in the european union if we cannot achieve it worldwide? the important thing now is that we all pay attention to how what we hope to decide later is implemented in the member states in the coming years. this is a challenge! we must first ensure that we achieve a high standard in this area in the member states. this is our first mission! we should not be demanding now, individuals must also go higher. where there are higher standards - and here i am speaking as a german from germany - those standards will be maintained. we're not saying, "go back!" quite the opposite. the sovereignty of the member states is respected here, as it is in the field of embryonic stem cell research. it's right and important! so if you really want more animal welfare, i will ask you all to support the report and reject the amendments.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for giving me, once more, the opportunity to address with you the issue of the acta negotiations. in this respect, let me recall the context of these negotiations: acta is an agreement which will be important to safeguard the eu’s competitiveness and jobs ¬on the world market. indeed, if we want to remain a competitive economy, we will have to rely on innovation, creativity and brand exclusivity. these are some of our main comparative advantages on the world market. so we need the tools to ensure that they are adequately protected in our main export markets. and this is about issues of concern to eu citizens: not only jobs, but also consumer safety, security and health. what we are aiming at is simply setting an international standard in ipr enforcement that is reasonable, balanced and effective, and thus goes beyond the current wto rules on ipr: the trips agreement. this is the ultimate objective, on which i am sure we all agree. last march, i came here to outline the key principles on which the commission’s participation in these negotiations is based, and committed myself to enhance transparency vis-à-vis parliament on these negotiations. as you can see from the draft texts resulting from the negotiations held since march, which we have shared with you, the commission has kept its word and has consistently stuck to these principles. let me recall to you these principles: firstly, the objective of acta is to address large-scale infringements of intellectual property rights which have a significant commercial impact, and it is not about checking on the content of travellers’ laptops or computers. it will not lead to limitation of civil liberties or harassment of consumers. if some of you have doubts on this, i would be very happy to hear your arguments. secondly, acta is only about enforcement of existing intellectual property rights. it will not include provisions modifying substantive intellectual property law. it should set minimum rules on how innovators can enforce their rights in courts, at the borders or over the internet. for example, acta will ensure that european fashion designers, artists or automobile manufacturers can see their rights adequately safeguarded when confronted with counterfeiting of their creations outside europe. thirdly, acta must remain in line with the eu acquis, including the current level of harmonisation of ipr enforcement, the e-commerce directive, the regulatory telecom framework, and, last but not least, the applicable eu legislation on data protection and privacy. acta will not change any eu legislation through the back door. so what then, you will ask me, is the added value? the answer is that our legislation is one of the most effective, and that if other countries adopt it, it will help our innovators. fourthly, we will make sure that acta does not hamper access to generic medicines. there is now clear language in the draft text ensuring that acta will not serve as a basis to interfere with the trade in generic medicines. furthermore, acta will be consistent with the declaration on trips and public health of 2001, whilst the obligations on border controls, which is the most sensitive issue as regards access to medicines, will not apply to patents. as regards transparency, we have kept our word to debrief the european parliament, through dedicated sessions, after each negotiation round, and we will continue to do so. and in line with our commitments under the framework agreement, we have of course shared the draft texts with the european parliament. i also take this opportunity to briefly report the results of the 10th round of acta negotiations that took place in washington between 16 and 20 august 2010. on the civil, customs and penal chapters, the parties made some progress, but there was not yet sufficient flexibility by the parties to address some of the more delicate issues. there was also extensive work on the general and horizontal chapters (preamble, general provisions, definitions, enforcement practices, international cooperation and institutional provisions) which are almost concluded. but regrettably, in the last two rounds, it has been made increasingly clear that a consensus including all the current acta parties will only be reached on the basis of the lowest common denominator, given the variety of views and practices on this issue with the various acta participants. this will be at the expense of the level of ambition – and effectiveness – of the agreement. on the digital environment (internet), which is one of the most sensitive but also the most ‘innovative’ chapters of acta, there was a considerable step back in the last round, with the parties unable to agree on a common liability exemption regime for internet service providers. this is also the case with the very important chapter on customs measures, where several parties oppose carrying out checks on exports and transit of infringing goods, thus failing to react against the widespread international traffic in counterfeits. another area where discussions are disappointing for eu interests relates to which intellectual property rights will be covered by the agreement. the eu has a wide and diversified basis of right-holders. a farmer producing products with geographical indications, or a textile company creating designs, are also victims of counterfeiting and also need to be covered by better enforcement rules. the problem is that several of our partners insist that only copyright and trademarks ‘deserve’ to be included in acta. we strongly disagree and will continue to firmly push for these offensive eu interests to be respected. the next round will take place in tokyo at the end of the month (from 23 september until 1 october 2010). it seems that we are approaching the end game and the parties are committed to resolving remaining substantive issues at the tokyo round. i remain firmly convinced of the importance of tackling the systematic and widespread abuse of european intellectual property around the world, and of the essential contribution that acta can make towards this goal. this is why i remain committed to the success of these negotiations. however, if at the end of the process the eu is faced with a treaty without much concrete added value for our right holders, or with a treaty trying to establish that there are 1st and 2nd category intellectual property rights, we should be ready to re-consider our participation in the agreement.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. 178 million items were seized at eu customs in 2008. 20 million of them were dangerous. 54% of counterfeit goods come from china, india is the black sheep in medicine. counterfeiting causes great damage to the european economy, but it also seriously affects buyers. i'm thinking of medication, for example. it would be a horror to me and to many parents if you gave a child with a fever a medicine and the child ended up dead because we are not able to deal with counterfeit products and medicines properly. so we have to solve these problems. the european union has a major concern with product piracy. we must protect our industry and consumers globally from products that are harmful to health and prevent economic losses for our companies. i therefore welcome the negotiations on an anti counterfeiting trade agreement as a major step in the right direction in the fight against product piracy. we know that this agreement is not the only solution to counter piracy, but at least we have the first international agreement on the table where some states are fighting against piracy, and i hope that as many more countries as possible will finally join. our group welcomes the good cooperation between the commission and parliament since our resolution in the spring and we regret that this resolution of parliament has had to be adopted. but thanks to regular reports from the commission, we have been able to get a picture of the negotiations in the past few months. i congratulate the negotiators on their recent achievements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agreement is implemented. the question of border controls for patent infringements, and thus the concern about the movement of generic medicines, is off the table. three strikes and the search of private luggage is off the table. the obligation of internet service providers is no longer applicable and the acquis communautaire appears to be respected. i think we're on the right track. but i would ask the commission to remain strong in order to represent the interests of the european union. i therefore support the proposal to include patent rights and geographical indications of origin and also patent infringements in the civil law part of the agreement. i am firmly of the opinion that our parma ham, tyrolean almond cheese and champagne should be protected in the same way as coca-cola or kellogg's corn flakes. i therefore call on the united states to abandon its blockade of the publication of the texts. the publication after the new zealand round has shown how much transparency is beneficial and how much criticism of the agreement has been silenced. i would ask the commission to continue to press for the publication of the negotiated text at the latest before the agreement is signed. i wish the commission every success in the next round in japan and i hope that it will report in due time and in detail after the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wish you continued success.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not so first of all i am pleased that written declaration no 12 on the acta agreement yesterday received the necessary majority of votes in this parliament. this shows that the european parliament continues to stand by the clear statements made in its resolution of march. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we do not want to outsource the enforcement of intellectual property rights to private individuals. the rule of law and democracy require that interference with fundamental rights including on the internet be carried out by legitimate representatives of the state and that the high standards of our constitution, the human rights convention and the treaty of lisbon apply. an agreement which, like the current acta draft, encourages private cartels of rights holders to govern the world in accordance with their commercial interests must not enter into force! the commission is on the verge of breaking the treaty in the acta negotiations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. this makes compliance with the current eu acquis increasingly unlikely. fortunately, the protracted protest of the european parliament now seems to be taking effect. but if acta is to win a majority in this house, there is indeed much to be done. you should have known that by yesterday.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the protection of inventors and companies from the theft of their ideas is an important concern, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i believe that these negotiations should be conducted within an international framework such as that of wipo. so it's basically about a new framework, a definition. the commission's proposals are not in line with the commission's proposals. i know that the negotiators in the commission and the council are aware of this dilemma. as a way out, you want to provide companies with a comprehensive remedy that will penetrate the markets of potential counterfeiters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the text reads: 'parties may exclude from border measures small quantities of goods of a non-commercial nature contained in travellers' personal luggage'. they want to commit themselves to creating a legal situation in the european union where goods or programmes imported from an acta country can be seized or even destroyed by judicial order at the request of a company. if necessary, even unaudita altera parte, that is, without listening to the other party. that might sound simple to you, but it's a container of fake chainsaws. but the agreement also wants to extend this approach to issues such as software components. will software giants like microsoft be able to go on the hunt and take out their smaller competitors through processes and procedures? the entertainment giants have also successfully brought their concerns to the acta negotiations. the aim is to track not only downloads and copying, but also the production and distribution of technologies that can circumvent copy protection, among other things. they have indicated that there is progress and that although the us has dropped its demand for liability of the internet service providers, there is still a paragraph in the criminal law chapter of the agreement on aiding and abetting. in addition, providers would have to hand over the personal data of customers suspected of infringing copyright upon a legitimate request from an undertaking. we have already learned in this house from the swift negotiations that the united states, for example, does not have data protection in the european union's sense. what is the situation in the other contracting states? the agreement must not interfere with the eu legal order. small and medium-sized enterprises must be protected from the patent raids of the software giants and the protection of internet users' data must be guaranteed.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm surprised at this proposal. my colleague was not here in the plenary for the debate this morning. i'm surprised at this proposal. mrs evans, as the green/efa shadow rapporteur, was present at all the trilogue negotiations and she agreed with the outcome of the trilogue on 7 april. the greens have tabled amendments in the committee on agriculture which they are again tabled today. this is legitimate. it's about these changes. as the committee chairman has already said, they were rejected by all the groups except the greens/efa group. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept the compromise reached, which i am not entirely happy with and which certainly cannot satisfy anyone here in all its aspects, because it is a compromise. but let us accept it anyway and reject everything that is being demanded now, otherwise we would have to continue with the old 1986 directive, including animal testing. so let us take a step towards better animal welfare now! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to make clear my group's position by saying again that it is sometimes very difficult to follow the trilogue negotiations as a group. if it is noted that the rapporteur does not want to see the number of animal experiments increasing on the basis of this regulation, that the number of primate experiments is increasing, and that member states are no longer allowed to regulate more strictly beyond this regulation, then a referral back to committee may be proposed. if that is not possible, then this is not a well-functioning parliament. thank you for your attention. (applause from the green group)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i ask the council to follow our vote today. and i'd like a short statement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the protection of animals is a subject which affects people in europe very deeply. i am therefore very pleased that our rapporteur, mrs jeggle, has succeeded in significantly improving the protection of experimental animals through long negotiations. the new directive aims to avoid animal testing wherever possible and to reduce it to the strict minimum. only if there is no alternative, and under very strict conditions, are they still allowed. this is a good compromise between animal welfare and freedom of research. overall, this is the first time that a high level of protection is being applied at european level. this is a great success. the point now is that all member states should implement the new directives in a timely manner.
in writing. - i cannot support the animal welfare directive as it stands today. this version is certainly more advanced than the old 1986 directive. however, when one considers the enormous scientific and technical progress achieved over the last 24 years, the measures to prevent animal testing are meagre. there are too many exceptions, the wording is soft and leaves too much room for interpretation and implementation. the fact that member states are not allowed to adopt more stringent protective measures for animals than those required by the eu is also absurd. the reason given is market distortions. this sends the wrong signal to citizens, research and industry. first, the state must take account of the changed ethical consciousness of citizens. secondly, we must put more pressure on research and industry. no one wants to jeopardize the research base in germany or europe, but investment costs must not be an argument to postpone the further development and application of non-animal methods.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not let me make a few remarks: this is a question of long standing, european competence! we have also failed to include the arms trade in the general european competence in the constitutional conferences and the intergovernmental conferences. i believe that it would be useful to pursue this further, so that the code of conduct and the 2008 council regulations become more binding. the european parliament should continue to work in this direction. secondly, it seems clear to me that in such a framework it should not be possible for us to have so little contact between member states that individual member states feel that arms exports to third parties are at their expense and threaten their security. whether this is right or wrong is almost immaterial. i believe that this is why we must find more european solutions. thirdly, i believe that - also for reasons of industrial policy - greater european cooperation, including, for example, through the defence agency, is necessary, both in exporting and in research, planning and production, as well as in procurement, because having your own arms industry also has something to do with independence. if you have nothing of your own and have to buy everything in third countries, you are dependent on other countries for your security. it is a question of our freedom and not just of economic purposes, although i do not want to deny the economic purposes. we must put all this in context and then we will be able to coordinate this area much more closely at community level without the misunderstandings in the member states, which have now understandably occurred in the baltic states, for example.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in 2000, the european union set itself the lisbon strategy to become the world's leading economic power by 2010. this requirement has been largely missed in many areas, but not in the case of eu arms exports. the eu overtook the united states as the world's leading arms exporter between 2005 and 2009. i think this development is extremely worrying. it seems that the code of conduct on arms exports, which was never legally binding anyway and which included restrictive export licensing practices, was a bubble. i therefore expressly welcome the conversion of the code of conduct on arms exports into a common position in december 2008. however, effective sanction mechanisms are still lacking. for example, germany recognised the code of conduct as legally binding long before 2008. nevertheless, germany is now the third largest arms exporter in the world, supplying, among other places, to crisis areas such as saudi arabia and pakistan. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu's arms exports are not subject to a uniform and often transparent system of reporting to the council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms exports of the member states are properly monitored and that the export of arms to third countries is properly controlled. unfortunately, there is little evidence of any attempt to achieve uniformity in this area. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but one thing is certain: the european union is currently miles away from this. (the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, i said the countries of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to give the previous speaker too much credit and refer to his speech, but he did say something right at the beginning: that it is very costly for many individual countries with small arms industries to produce economically. i am of course coming to a different conclusion from him, namely that we should really produce the necessary military equipment more cheaply within the european union through the defence agency and through joint procurement programmes. but first i would like to thank the council for its comments and i think it is politically very important that we can say here that we have the most modern legally binding criteria for arms exports in the world. i think that is something the european union can be proud of. i would like to ask the council a question in this connection: you have explained the cases in which consultations take place, and this is apparently the case only when identical applications have been rejected in one country and another country intends to approve an export application. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is another question which interests me in this context.
author. − mr president, i am here as a friend of democracy and i am also here as a friend of israeli democracy. it is because i worry about israeli democracy that we tabled a question before the summer about a law that would apply to israeli ngos, which resembled some of the laws we know from other less democratic parts of this world. part of that law was about including ngos in the register of political parties and taking away their tax exemption status. that was deeply worrying for us. happily, we noted that this has been changed and removed, but unfortunately the law still foresees a draft law to further increase transparency regarding money that comes from foreign political entities. it does not require the same from private donors, which we find very worrying, and specifically addresses the european union as one of the donors, when it comes to people supporting that law. the eu is one of the targets of the new law because a lot of people in israel who do not necessarily like democracy or human rights think that the eu supports project ngos that go against the interests of israel, without actually defining what these interests are. we are deeply worried and we would like to know what you think this would mean for eu funding? how do you think we should react to it? and can we not at least expect the same transparency rules for every donor – private or public, from the eu or any other country – when it comes to ngos in israel?
member of the commission. − mr president, civil society organisations play a vital role in open and democratic societies. israel has an unquestionable tradition of a free, open, and vibrant civil society playing a positive role in many sectors, including monitoring human rights, both in israel and in the occupied palestinian territories, as well as highlighting environmental and cultural issues. the eu has been cooperating with israeli non-governmental organisations for many years and has a keen interest in continuing this fruitful cooperation, in particular since many israeli ngos have a reputation for professional excellence in their fields. this is why we followed with concern the debate in the knesset on the bill on the ‘disclosure of funding from abroad’. we have made these concerns clearly known to the israeli authorities on many occasions. as spelled out in the commission’s european neighbourhood policy progress report, the first version of the bill, last february, contained new requirements on the activities of civil society that – if adopted – would have substantially hampered ngo work in israel. a new and substantially revised version of the bill was discussed during the summer by members of the knesset, the government and civil society representatives. in august, a new draft was adopted at first reading in the knesset. in the latest draft bill, provisions removing tax exemptions for ngos and including an obligation to register in the political parties’ register have been shelved. these are certainly very welcome changes. however, in our view, the reporting obligations imposed on ngos would still become unnecessarily stringent, not least because the current administrative requirements for ngos in israel already ensure adequate transparency of public funding. furthermore, these new transparency criteria would only cover public funding from abroad, while private foreign sources would not need to be disclosed – as has quite rightly been underscored. that approach would discriminate against those working with foreign public funding, including from the eu. in the enp action plan, israel and the european union have agreed to engage in a regular dialogue on civil society issues and to promote israel-eu links between civil society. the latest eu-israel working group on human rights met on 2 september, and also discussed in detail the issue of ngo funding. the bill will go through further discussions and readings in the knesset in the coming months. we will continue to follow developments closely.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the proposed ngo legislation in israel has all of us very worried, and we were concerned that the ability of ngos to act in israel could be significantly restricted. we have expressed our concern to our knesset colleagues in jerusalem during a delegation of some of the chairmen of the european parliament's committees, in which i participated as chairman of the middle east working party, and in particular in a very good conversation with deputy prime minister dan meridor. i would like to see such a sober, intelligent personage as dan meridor as deputy prime minister appear in public much more than, for example, the foreign minister, whose views we do not agree with in any way. as all the speakers have said, there have now been some improvements in the draft. but - and i welcome what commissioner füle has said - there are still some questions to be clarified. we must raise our voice whenever human rights organisations - non-governmental organisations - are to be restricted in their tasks, in their sphere of action. the legislation is not yet complete, the decision is expected in the knesset session in october, and we will continue to monitor this very carefully. i say this as a friend of israel, and i say this as a friend of israel, that the israeli government and the israeli parliament must be treated like any other government and parliament on earth. israel rightly claims to be a democracy. then it must also accept criticism, if we think criticism is appropriate. i do not understand - i would add this - why the israeli embassy in brussels issued a press statement yesterday saying that we are not debating a subject here today and that this debate should not take place because of the middle east peace process. i call on the israeli government and i say very clearly that we disagree with all the statements made by the iranian president regarding the security of israel, that we are against any terrorism, from any side, and that it arouses our strongest criticism if israelis were killed in hebron, but we also say to the israeli address: after september 26 do not start building settlements again, but create the conditions for the peace process to continue! this is a great responsibility that israel has, and we really hope that there will be a stable, lasting peace with israel in secure borders, but also with palestine in secure borders. everyone has dignity - the israelis, but also the palestinians! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking israel for taking seriously the many concerns about the proposed legislation and for at least somewhat relaxing the laws. ngos have long been required to disclose their funding in full transparency, even publishing it on their website. the proposed legislation is - even in its watered-down form - essentially aimed at targeting only very specific ngos, firstly human rights organisations and secondly those that receive public funds. so, for example, public funds from the un or the eu. on the other hand, ngos that receive private funds and are involved in, for example, illegal settlements or far-right groups are not subject to any legal restrictions and are not required to disclose their funding. and it is in this unequal treatment that the problem of the proposed laws lies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first like to counter the numerous complaints from outside parliament, and in some cases from within parliament, that we are dealing with this issue at the wrong time, namely after the start of the peace negotiations. the parliamentary question, which i also co-authored, was tabled at a time when it was not yet clear to all of us that direct peace talks would resume. i have been dealing with this subject since the early 1990s and it has actually been discussed in this parliament for a long time. the ultimate aim is to save the lower jordan from its final death. the river is already a trickle in its lower course. it is now only sewage and has no fresh water at all. all scientists agree that in a year or two the jordan will be practically dead in its lower course. what disturbs me a little about the resolution is that it addresses israel, jordan, syria and the palestinian authority on an equal footing. the jordan river is entirely in area c, which means that the palestinian authority has virtually no access to it, let alone any administrative rights or influence whatsoever. it has already been said here that the palestinian authority cannot do anything on the ground. the resolution is therefore addressed to a different group. it is a political issue when a country - and this is israel - consumes 75% of the water that is still available in the jordan river basin, some of which has already been taken from other countries, and the palestinians have practically no water left to live on. this is already covered by the oslo treaty. we haven't moved forward since. we have a concrete problem at the moment, that the palestinians keep trying to drill wells, but they are immediately destroyed, that on the other hand the israeli water authority, a monopoly authority, does not drill wells for palestinians, but only for the illegal settlements.
member of the commission. − mr president, free movement of workers is a fundamental principle in the eu. together with free movement of goods, services and capital it is a pillar of the single market and it has contributed to making european integration a success. as you are well aware, for the first seven years of the eu membership of bulgaria and romania, bulgarian and romanian workers cannot fully benefit from free movement of workers. this is due to the transitional arrangements in place, as provided for by the accession treaties, which allow the other member states to delay the application of eu law on free movement to bulgarian and romanian workers for a maximum period of seven years. when bulgaria and romania joined the eu in 2007, already 10 of the 25 member states decided to open their labour markets to bulgarian and romanian workers. today this number has increased to 15 and only ten member states continue to apply restrictions. it is worth noting that, among the ten member states, several apply less strict conditions or procedures in comparison to those in place before bulgaria and romania joined the eu. it is important to bear in mind that the decision as to whether to apply the transitional arrangements and restrict labour market access is the sole responsibility of the member state concerned. the commission does not have any formal role to play in ending the restrictions. however, the commission is, as a matter of principle, in favour of fully applying free movement of workers. in addition, the commission has always worked to ensure that the member states which apply restrictions do so in line with the conditions laid down in the accession treaty. the commission has also repeatedly stressed that the transitional arrangements are, by definition, temporary and that member states should gradually open their labour markets, instead of delaying the application of free movement of workers until the end of the seven-year period. the 2006 and 2008 commission reports on the functioning of the transitional arrangements show that labour mobility, following the 2004 and 2007 enlargements, has had a positive impact on the economy and has helped meet labour demand. these findings remain valid, even in the current economic crisis. the commission will continue to encourage member states to re-examine their position on labour market access, including by referring to the findings of the reports. there is no detailed information as regards the number or social situation of irregular workers coming from the member states that joined the eu recently. this is due precisely to the hidden character of their presence in the member states concerned. in the 2006 and 2008 reports, the commission underlined that restrictions to free movement of workers do not necessarily result in protecting the national labour market and may delay labour market adjustments. what is more, transitional arrangements can exacerbate the incidence of undeclared work. it has been shown that enlargement has contributed to bringing to the surface part of the underground economy constituted by previously undeclared workers from the new member states. there is also convincing evidence that nationals from the new member states have had undeclared jobs due to the restrictions they face in accessing the labour market of the ‘old’ member states. this is in line with the findings that mobility flows are mainly driven by factors related to supply and demand conditions and that restrictions to free movement of workers delay labour market adjustments. the commission does not intend to elaborate a specific study on the living and working conditions of the irregular labour force from bulgaria and romania or on its impact on the domestic labour markets, notably due to the lack of information and difficulties of collecting such data. however, the issue of ‘irregular workers’ from bulgaria and romania will be covered, as far as possible, in any analysis the commission may develop in the future about the functioning of the transitional arrangements for bulgaria and romania if, as foreseen by the transitional arrangements, one of the two countries requests it. in addition, the commission will continue to promote specific activities to combat undeclared work, in co-operation with the member states. the commission understands that the fact that bulgarian and romanian workers still face restrictions can be perceived as discrimination. i would like to stress that transitional arrangements in the area of free movement of workers were applied in the majority of previous enlargements. in addition, transitional arrangements apply, not only to bulgarian and romanian workers, but also to workers from eight of the ten member states that joined the eu in 2004. it is also worth pointing out that the current transitional arrangements offer more flexibility to member states by allowing them to decide when to start applying eu law on free movement of workers during the seven-year-period in the light of the situation of their labour market (the previous transitional arrangements simply deferred the introduction of eu law on free movement of workers by a number of years). however, discrimination perceived by bulgarian and romanian workers who cannot work freely in the ten member states that still apply restrictions does not constitute discrimination in the legal sense of the term. although article 18 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union prohibits discrimination based on nationality, it does so subject to specific provisions contained in the other eu treaties. the transitional arrangements laid down in the accession treaty constitute such provisions. temporarily restricting labour market access to bulgarian and romanian workers on the basis of the transitional arrangements is therefore not contrary to eu law.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the seven-year transitional period until full freedom of movement for the member states that joined in 2004 was used to the full in germany and austria through the 2+3+2 arrangement. for bulgaria and romania, germany will also use the full time limit in the second phase from 2009 to 2011. commissioner dalli pointed out that there are 10 member states which still have restrictions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the gradual adjustment to change is an important policy decision. we have learned from experience that the premature establishment of freedom of movement poses great dangers for the labour market. it concerns various target groups, for example the longterm unemployed, but also the low-skilled, and in my country, for example, the regions in eastern germany. access to jobs in the eu will therefore continue to have to be controlled, because these experiences are different, but it will of course lead to a change in the near future. we're not quite ready for that yet. the demand that the commission should carry out a study on the so-called positive impact of illegal workers from bulgaria and romania is a completely wrong approach. if illegals violate the law, such violations cannot be minimized by beautiful statistics. i am still in favour of strict controls so that we can fight illegal work and illegal activities. we owe it to the legal workforce. we have another important task to tackle together, by dealing in detail with the full freedom of movement from 2012. the opportunities and the risks are part of it. only if we differentiate, if we deal with facts, if we have a qualified, detailed discussion, can we prevent the creation of a common table, the emergence of exclusion, and the fact that we suddenly work against each other instead of together. this is a clear position of the epp group. as early as december 2009, i sent a request to the commission asking whether there were any usable statements on the effects of full freedom of movement for workers. the answer was that the free movement of workers has a positive effect on the economy and no negative side effects on the labour market. sorry, inspector, this is too thin! you weren't in office then. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the free movement of workers in the european union is an important measure of the internal improvement of the european union. it is also true that the free movement of workers will be a matter of course in the near future. but where there are large differences in income and, above all, in regulation between member states, appropriate transitional periods are necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, transitional periods are limited in time. that's what we're here for! the extension of the time limits is, however, a matter for discussion.
the commission has already done so. in the context of the debate on your regulation on novel foods before the summer break, we decided not to deal with the question of cloned meat in this regulation but to ask the commission to adopt another regulation. i therefore welcome the fact that the commissioner is already making proposals to us today on the direction this regulation is taking. i regard today's discussion as the basis for the expected regulation which the commission will present in november. that is why it is very important that we discuss this today. we know that, and we have said this many times today, time is of the essence. for example, in the united states, we have at least 150 cloned cattle for breeding purposes. we have seen it happen in the uk during the summer break. whether this was just summer-old stuffing or whether there's something to it, it's not entirely proven. but i would like to remind you why we called for the special regulation at the time: first of all, we said that it's not entirely clear that cloned meat is really safe. i would like to confirm this by saying that so far only comparisons have been made between meat from non-cloned animals and meat from cloned animals. so the real proof - that's what the efsa says - has not been provided yet. we should really double-check and see. but we also brought a second aspect into the field, and that was ethics and animal welfare. it's not right that we have no rights in this matter. the treaty of lisbon includes animal welfare and we can invoke it when we see wrongdoing or constant dangers for animals. if we are to vote for a ban, then this must of course be clarified and proved, and i think that is necessary. go to a supermarket and see how beef is labeled! they can't prove what's on the labels either. so you can write on it if the meat is cloned. we have a register of animals, which allows you to track where an animal comes from without having it marked. you can trace everything back to the ancestors. so we have the means to determine whether the meat comes from a cloned animal or a non-cloned animal. the popular saying is that a man can disappear, but an animal cannot, because it is recorded everywhere in all its details. so we have the means and we should use them if we decide to allow cloned meat. it is possible to prove this, but with strict traceability and labelling in the interests of consumers. but do not forget the question of animal welfare. we think that's very, very important.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have already wondered about your remarks. you've been acting like nothing happened! parliament made its position very clear in july and called for a moratorium. nothing has happened yet. there was a call to create a bill, and there was nothing at all. the fact that you live in the valley of the unknown was made very clear in a question i asked in may, in which we asked how many cloned animals and how many offspring of such animals are in circulation. and you said, "we don't know, we can't say anything about that, we have no idea". so you don't know what's going to happen, but you're acting like we can wait a long time for your report in november. that's not enough. they're called to action, and so far, nothing has happened. it is not right what mr leinen said. parliament has made it very clear that it is in favour of a moratorium on second generation. we cannot simply deny this, but we must be clear that this is also a problem, because all the studies show that this technology has not been sufficiently tested in its implementation. there are no long-term studies and it is becoming clear that, in the light of what has happened so far, there are very serious breaches of animal welfare directives - including those of the union - when cloning is carried out. the fact that only 15% of the animals survive and are viable is a clear violation of the eu animal welfare directive. we have the precautionary principle in the eu, and we must take it seriously. so as long as there are health risks and a technology is not mature, we should not be allowed to experiment with it. the public is clearly opposed to this. the public is not waiting for cloned meat, nor are the farmers waiting for cloned meat, but the public is very critical of all this, and we must not endanger this critical consumer awareness. rather, we are expected to approach the subject very carefully and not just say, this is a new, advanced technology and we are using it now. no, we must be very critical of the new technologies. i suspect that the commission does not want that. the commission has an unwavering belief in progress, as it does on other issues, but the question is: are we on the right track? are we working in the interests of consumers and farmers? i don't think so, you know. so you should seriously implement the moratorium and put a bill on the table, we are waiting for that. the incident in scotland has shown how little the commission is able to do and how little is actually done. nothing happened at all. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the question of the use of hormones. we have been able to do that, and we can do it in other areas. we are not taking the risk of having to accept any trade restrictions.
the commission has already done so. i'm all for green genetic engineering, but cloning is something else. that's nothing compared to that. cloning is animal cruelty. many colleagues here have already said it. i also mentioned it before the summer break in the discussion we had: only a fraction of animal clones actually survive. of those who survive, many, many die very early and very painfully. they suffer from deformities of limbs, of organs. they have immune deficiencies, they're susceptible to disease. it means pain and suffering and a painful death. can we be responsible for that? we're all so committed to animal welfare, and then we're going to support this technology? no, we don't want that! and that's why we decided in july that we don't want any cloned meat or animal products from cloned animals. that's just consistent. yes, we know that the products of cloned animals or their descendants are probably not harmful to health, and i personally assume that they would actually be suitable for human consumption, but there is actually no shortage of meat from conventional production. why should we be involved in cloning? there is no need to torture animals! the people don't want it either. the public doesn't want these products! we don't need them! there is no argument for cloned meat in the european union. that is why we want a very clear regulation explicitly for cloned animals and their descendants. i want a ban on cloning and cloning products in the european union. i think we can get that through. of course, this must also apply to imports. i want to be sure that i am not being secretly fed cloned meat because it is not marked, as has just happened in scotland. i don't think you can trace all the meat. it may be possible with beef. but in the case of pork, because of the mass produced, it's not going to be possible to trace back to whether there was actually a clone in the lineage. it's a matter of principle, i suppose, it's an ethical question. other colleagues have said that we must also deal with ethical questions, that we are also responsible for ethical questions. there is, of course, the question of animal welfare, but there is also another question. experience shows that - i'm a livestock farmer, i've studied this - that all reproductive techniques, once they really worked in livestock production, eventually were applied to humans. so we must ask ourselves today: are we willing and able to accept cloning technology in humans in a possibly not so distant future? so i don't want to and i can't. even if a clone of myself, a replacement clone, could one day in the future perhaps donate a vital organ to me, i wouldn't want that. i don't think that's an exaggerated vision of horror. i believe that this would be possible in the not too distant future if we allowed cloning. that is why we urgently need a ban not only on cloning but also on cloned animals and their descendants throughout the eu. i'm not afraid of the wto. we can enforce that. we do not have to imitate everything the united states tells us, in spite of all the transatlantic friendship!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i've written down four reasons for rejecting cloned meat, and not all of them will be scientifically settled. firstly, the use of meat from cloned animals for human consumption is not desirable in the european union. this also applies to products derived from their descendants. secondly, it is not yet clear whether there is a health risk from eating cloned meat. thirdly, animal cloning has been shown to cause health problems in the animals themselves. fourthly, the main reason for rejecting the cloning of animals for food is ethical. the cloning of animals for food production and the use of cloned meat should therefore be strictly rejected. it is important to adopt regulations on the control of cloned meat quickly. that is what the people of europe expect of us. the minimum is, however, a clear and distinct labelling of cloned meat.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for your questions on the future of the potato starch sector. the commission welcomes the opportunity to give its view on this sector. the reform of the potato starch sector was part of the ‘health check’, and it was at the request of the sector that the council decided that the decoupling of all aids should coincide with the end of the quota system. in fact, the commission had proposed a more gradual approach, phasing in the decoupling in two steps. the sector’s main argument had been that the additional delay before the aids were decoupled would allow potato starch producers to prepare for a market without quotas and without transformation aids. the request for a restructuring fund like the one in the sugar industry is difficult to accommodate within the budget allocated to the potato starch sector. even if all current beneficiaries, including the growers of starch potatoes, agreed to renounce their coupled aids to set up a restructuring fund to finance the dismantling of potato starch factories, the available budget would be unlikely to provide a strong enough incentive. to set up a restructuring fund within the current legal framework requires a regulation, which would enter into force on 1 july 2011 at the very earliest, leaving a restructuring period of only one year with a very limited budget that would be insufficient to address an overcapacity which, according to sector representatives, could amount to up to 40% of the total production capacity. as i mentioned earlier, going back on the decisions taken as part of the health check is not an option. we are currently discussing the future of the cap after 2013. for the agricultural sector as a whole we want to have a cap that is strong, efficient and well-balanced. the potato starch sector, just like all other sectors, can participate in this debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. regulation (ec) no 73/2009 establishing common rules for direct payments under the common agricultural policy amended the community rules on the single payment scheme and decided to further decouple aid that was previously linked to production. in the potato starch sector, there are two premiums which are currently allowed to be linked to production, the production aid for starch potatoes, i.e. payments to farmers, and the potato starch premium, i.e. payments to undertakings and factories. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the payment of social security contributions are applied in the member states. the latest possible date for this is 2012. the decoupling of producer aid could also be decided by member states as from 2010. this means that the starch potato sector is currently supported by a comprehensive eu market organisation system in terms of production. however, according to the health check decisions, the application of these market organisation instruments must be discontinued by 2012 at the latest. the measures adopted will mean a serious cut in the sector. whether starch potatoes will be competitive under the new conditions remains to be seen. although there is no alternative to more market orientation and less government intervention, appropriate transitional periods should be considered to allow for an orderly transition. we should also support farmers who want to continue to improve their competitiveness or look for new markets and outlets, but also offer assistance to those who choose not to do so. the most important thing is that the commission should take a decision on this matter at the earliest opportunity and make a clear statement. because in business, a good decision is always a good decision, a bad decision is a challenge, but the worst thing is not to make a decision. because no decision is stagnation, and stagnation is deadly to the economy. i therefore ask the commission once again to reflect on the situation and to look for appropriate ways and means in the interests of our farmers.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not better regulation, what does that mean? we want to make laws simple, transparent and understandable for eu citizens and businesses. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. we only want to regulate at european level what cannot be regulated at national or local level. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules. this is the only way to achieve the best possible effects while minimising adverse effects. the so-called impact assessment must therefore be prepared by the commission with the greatest possible care. it is therefore right that, following pressure from the european parliament, an independent council has been set up to monitor the quality of the impact assessment. the council should, however, be accountable to the european parliament. for businesses, public authorities and citizens, the rules impose financial costs, whether in providing information, labelling products or complying with monitoring obligations. if the cost is too high, it will destroy the value of the policy. we therefore have the ambitious and correct target of reducing administrative costs by 25% by 2012 through red tape reduction. we must work towards this goal at european level, and the chances of achieving it are good. but it must also be said here that a good third - some say two thirds - of the administrative burden derived from the eu is due to the fact that member states simply adopt too many unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic rules when implementing eu law. eu institutions and member states must therefore work together actively to avoid unnecessary red tape. the implementation of community law also needs to be monitored in a fundamental and active way. and above all, national parliaments must also fulfil their duty of cooperation under the treaty of lisbon.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr simpson, i have been a member of the european commission for almost seven or eight months now. you have often heard me say, including here on 13 january, at the time of my hearing, the personal attachment i have had, have and will have to the preservation and protection of public service missions and to the reconciliation of the large market, for which i am one of the responsible, with the citizens. i shall have the opportunity to say this again when the single market act is presented in october, in which we will, as you wish, work together to deepen and take this single market further, which is an opportunity for employment, by attaching real importance to its human and social dimension and, as far as i am concerned, to the protection of public service missions and missions of general interest. that is why, mr simpson, i am glad that you are asking the question on behalf of your colleagues. this very important project of postal reform is not a few months old. he was hired a long time ago. the full market opening will be effective on 1 january 2011 in 16 member states, representing 95% of the postal volume in the union. i repeat, this is a reform project that has been carefully considered. it is a reform which has been gradual, announced in 1992 with the green paper and there are no less than three directives which have subsequently made this desire concrete with many successive democratic validations. i would also remind you that the third and final directive, which you, mr president, are well aware of, was adopted in 2008 for many reasons, with the support of the european parliament and a large majority in the council of ministers. twenty-five member states voted in favour of this reform, which was therefore carried out in a fairly transparent manner. it was not done in secret, nor by chance, but because it met a need, that of enabling this sector, which is very important in every respect - we can still cite a few figures: 95 billion euros in turnover, 5 million jobs directly or indirectly affected - to evolve, innovate, live with its time and better meet the expectations of users, both citizens and businesses. the completion of this internal market, when it is justified and accompanied, is, in my view, a guarantee of innovation, of adaptation to change, and therefore of economic growth and better services to better meet the needs of citizens. the challenges facing operators are obvious because of the evolution of our social and economic practices, but we are fortunate in the union to have prepared for the evolution of this postal sector for a long time, by carrying out, i believe, a coherent, thoughtful, gradual reform. this sector is changing. new technologies are radically changing the way we communicate. the phenomenon of electronic substitution is accelerating and is simply the result of new behaviours on the part of citizens themselves. in addition, we are also experiencing the effects of various economic and financial crises. in this context, ladies and gentlemen, quite frankly, who would believe that a sudden, abrupt postponement of this process which we have carefully conducted would be a desirable response? the commission does not think so, for at least three reasons. the achievement of the objectives of the 1992 green paper is an important asset for the european union in overcoming the crisis in the sector: efficient operators, among the best in the world, high-quality postal services and a sound and effective regulatory framework. secondly, with these directives we have a strong regulatory framework, supported by the competent national regulatory authorities, who are much better placed to work together and often work together. the opening is therefore carried out in a controlled manner. in particular, mr simpson, the task of these national regulators will be to ensure that the universal service obligations, which i am very attached to, are actually properly fulfilled and financed. finally, any hesitation at this very late stage in the reform would create, in no one's interest, a general legal uncertainty, which would be detrimental not only to new entrants to these postal markets but to all the players in the sector. we believe that freezing this process would plunge the sector into a form of waiting and stagnation. i can hear all the concerns about employment and working conditions. i know, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the post office in european employment. let me remind you that the third directive, which gives the member states considerable latitude in reconciling openness with social requirements, states - and this is my only reference to the text, mr simpson - that social considerations must be duly taken into account when preparing the opening up of postal markets. we have a duty, mr simpson, and i give you a certificate of this, to check that all these requirements, all these conditions are being met. in 2013, when all eu countries have implemented the reform, the commission will present a formal evaluation report to the parliament and the council. other studies will be published sooner than that and i want to indicate, to mark my personal attention as commissioner, and that of president barroso, to your concerns, my intention, even if there is no obligation on this subject, to create in 2011 a user dialogue group. the regulators' group is getting set up. i want to create a user group in addition to this, so that companies, citizens, trade unions, who have a very important role to play, and then of course parliament, can, around the same table, report on what is happening on the ground, hear the report of the evaluation committee and regularly - we shall see how fast - carry out an evaluation and dialogue to check that the various postal sector reforms are being implemented correctly. that is my assurance to you and i will personally ensure, mr president simpson, ladies and gentlemen, that this user dialogue group functions properly and transparently.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as rapporteur for the second and third postal directives, i am naturally particularly pleased that this issue is on the agenda during this parliamentary term, because i think it is important to point out what we have achieved since the green paper was presented in 1992 - as the commissioner has pointed out - and to highlight the fact that the commission has already made progress in this area. we have achieved a significant improvement in the quality of postal services throughout europe. i remember saying in this room two terms ago that it was common practice for the vacationer to come home sooner than the cards he sends home to his loved ones. that's changed now. we have achieved a significant improvement in quality in the cross-border area. we have achieved a marked improvement in quality within the member states. the commitment to a universal service that is uniform across europe has also led to a significant improvement in the provision of postal services, or to a high level of postal services where they have always been good. this is also important and has been pointed out by both the chairman of our committee and the commissioner. the aim of the third directive, which provides for full liberalisation on 1 january 2011 for the majority of member states, is to ensure that this universal service is provided on a permanent basis. i would like to emphasise what the question says, with the simultaneous requirement - and this was the conditio sine qua non of the third directive - that there is no deterioration in working conditions, but that the existing social standards and protection mechanisms in the member states continue to apply beyond 1 january 2011. we'll be sure to check that. we are not only going to have the oral question today, but there are also reporting obligations on the part of the commission. we shall read these reports very carefully, commissioner, and if necessary draw the appropriate conclusions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we live in a europe where we want people to be able to live well together and to have access to all areas of life that are important to them. you know very well that we are experiencing a demographic change in europe. in the future, some areas will be less populated than they are now. we want all citizens to be provided with the services they claim and need to be able to speak out. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of postal services. the first is how to ensure that rural areas in remote areas receive the necessary services at affordable prices, with less money in the pockets of the public. and then there are people who deliver that mail and are also reasonably paid. it is not easy for the member states, but we have decided that we want this, and you, commissioner, have indicated that a large majority of the member states have agreed to this. the commission has also proposed to make the use of the internet more accessible to citizens. i see a difficulty in that too. she hasn't been approached yet. but the directive says that if something goes wrong, citizens should be able to complain to a body. and that's not easy to do, especially with fewer people, to maintain the infrastructure. commissioner barnier, you said you were new to this office and that you would take care of everything. i believe you for once. but you must also understand that we are quite sceptical, particularly in the committee on transport and tourism. brian simpson said that the previous commission was also responsible for monitoring the implementation of the railway package and that nothing was implemented and nothing happened. in other areas too, things have not always gone as we would have liked. i know this because i was in politics in germany before. we are making decisions which are quite good, where everyone agrees, and then nobody thinks to see whether or not they are implemented quickly in the interests of the people of europe and also of the workers. that's what we want you to do. so show us that we can trust you. we would be very happy if that were justified.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. two stages of post-liberalisation are already under way. the commission has not yet published a single study dealing exclusively with the social conditions and consequences of market opening for postal workers. commissioner barnier, i ask you: when will this study finally be available to parliament? we heard yesterday from many postal workers in several eu countries that entire staff are already being laid off by the new postal companies and re-employed on worse terms. competition and competition policy must not be carried out on the backs of the workers. if the commission and parliament really want to do something about poverty and exclusion in the eu, the third stage of post-liberalisation must be suspended now. the consequences for postal workers and the quality of universal services must first be examined. we are therefore calling for a moratorium on the third stage of post-liberalisation for customers and postal workers.
in writing. the experience of countries that have already liberalised shows that post-liberalisation is a downward spiral. competition must not be conducted on the backs of workers, i.e. on the basis of wages and working conditions. we must maintain high-quality jobs in the european postal services, because only then can universal service be guaranteed for all. postal services must be equally accessible to everyone, no matter where they live - this must be a fundamental right. it is the commission's task to protect the citizens of the european union from social dumping and to maintain labour standards. but nothing has been done! the opening up of european markets must not be accompanied by the abolition of social protection rights. we reject competition between the social systems of the member states. i call for a moratorium until the social consequences have been examined, social conditions throughout the postal market have been secured, the financing of universal services has been guaranteed and a way has been found for competition based on quality and innovation in the market. member states must ensure by law that postal services are fully accessible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. simple, clear and understandable legislation is of great importance for the acceptance of the european union by the population. but good legislation is also central to the functioning of the european union. simplifying the european legislative process should therefore be one of the main concerns of the european institutions. this includes, in particular, the reduction of administrative burdens for our companies. this will unleash new forces for economic development and innovation. but not everywhere europe is on the map is europe in it, at least that is my experience in my own country. the commission must be very careful to ensure that the member states adopt rules which do not go beyond european requirements.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the review conference on the international criminal court held in kampala this year made it very clear that the court can only fulfil its task effectively if it is supported by states, in particular those which have ratified the rome statute. the eu member states also need to be reminded of this, as fear of diplomatic difficulties and possible political disadvantages often prevents them from taking consistent action, for example in the arrest of suspected war criminals. in our resolution today we criticise the behaviour of the kenyan government, which invited the president of sudan, omar al-bashir, and then failed to arrest him. al-bashir has been arrested on charges of war crimes and genocide. in doing so, kenya has violated international law and publicly celebrated that the supposed african solidarity between governments is stronger than the prosecution and punishment of such serious crimes as crimes against humanity. this is not a good sign for the millions of people in africa who have suffered horrendously under the atrocities of a president al-bashir, but also in other wars and civil wars in africa. the victims and their families need to be rehabilitated, they need justice, and they should see that these criminals, no matter how high-ranking they are politically or militarily, are held accountable for their atrocities. it is also highly critical that the african union is openly opposing the arrest of al-bashir. it recommends a false solidarity to member states, encourages impunity for high-ranking politicians and thus weakens the necessary good governance. a government that is supposed to base its decisions on current and international law. it is also disappointing that the african union has refused to establish a regional office of the international criminal court in addis ababa. the european union is therefore once again calling on the commission to put this issue of non-cooperation and hostility towards the international criminal court on the agenda of the next eu-african union summit.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. our resolution sends out several very clear messages. firstly, we call for the immediate and unconditional release of mr haythan al-maleh, all other human rights defenders and all other prisoners of conscience. and we cannot compromise on human rights. but we also say in our resolution, in recital a and paragraph 9, that we want dialogue with syria. we want the agreement with syria to be concluded as soon as possible, but not unconditionally, as an instrument for human rights and cooperation. we fully recognize that in syria - as mrs de keyser said - there have been positive developments as well as negative ones. nowhere in the arabian peninsula and mashreq are christians and other minorities better off than in syria. lebanese christians - and prominent ones - tell me they can only survive because syria is now protecting them. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. and that's why we need a stable syria, but syria has to take steps to do that.
member of the commission. − madam president, the recent wave of arrests and verdicts against human rights defenders, lawyers, journalists and kurds is of grave concern to the european union. three significant cases have captured the eu’s attention recently: those of mr muhammad al-hasani and mr haythan al-maleh – many have referred to them today, not least to mr al-maleh – and also of mr ali abdullah, a writer who was re-arrested in june after having completed his sentence. the european union has taken a number of actions. these cases have been raised – including by the high representative – with the syrian authorities at the appropriate levels. the eu has insisted that the very fragile health condition of the 80-year old mr al-maleh be taken into account on humanitarian grounds. démarches were made in the utmost discretion to start with but, in the absence of any response from the authorities, the high representative issued a statement on 27 july recalling syria’s commitments under international law and urging the release of political prisoners. despite the lack of a positive response so far, eu actions must – and will – continue. the eu is working on different fronts in parallel to advance human rights in syria. the eu and member state delegations in damascus will continue to monitor the situation and observe the trials. mr al-hasani and mr al-maleh have filed appeals. support for human rights defenders and their families and lawyers will be pursued. at the same time, respect for human rights must remain a recurring issue in any eu dialogue with the syrian authorities, at all levels. mrs de keyser asked about the status of the association agreement. syria is still withholding its reply to the eu’s invitation to sign this agreement, which has been pending since october 2009. syria indicates that the assessment of its political and economic impact is not yet finalised. the agreement will undeniably bring several benefits to both parties but, for the european union, it is also the best way to establish a regular and frank political dialogue with syria, including on human rights issues. advancing eu assistance on human rights and democracy is another important avenue. projects in the pipeline include modernising the judiciary and strengthening the capacity of syrian civil society.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i am sorry, but my group has asked for a rollcall vote this time - as it has always done - for the final vote on the urgent matters, namely the syrian issue. but it seems that a technical error prevented it from reaching you. i ask you, on behalf of our group, and i am sure the other groups will not mind, to be so kind as to put the names of the people on the resolution on syria to the vote.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not our group has already pointed out at the conference of presidents last week that the gallo report - a very controversial own-initiative report in this house - should be re-examined as to its future treatment. we are dealing with the introduction of this report here briefly and the voting on it, in accordance with the new procedure in our rules of procedure. we have already had several alternative resolutions which are also being put to the vote. the situation in which we find it today is very confusing. i would venture to predict that none of the proposed proposals put to the vote will end up with a majority. that's the one question. the other question is that we have learned in the meantime that the commission's initiatives in the area of copyright will be presented in the coming days and that the commission has decided to take a legislative approach and will put draft directives into the legislative process. that means that at a time when we are making legislation, we are voting on an own-initiative report which will certainly be overtaken by legislation. we therefore ask that this item be removed from the agenda.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it is an unusual cooperation, but my group proposed last week that we should not vote on thursday because we do not intend to abolish the right of the french to strike, as mr daul feared, but we would like to ensure that not too many french or german workers are used to transport staff, particularly those of the european parliament, under very expensive conditions and thus undermine the strike. i think that as far as i can see, there is support in this european parliament for this sensible approach. my group is also in favour of postponing this vote.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the rapporteur, madame de veyrac, and the shadow rapporteurs very much for their work here, and for their constant commitment in supporting the commission in the legislative proposal that has led to this new and very important regulation on air safety in europe. as the rapporteur said, it has not been an easy file. on the contrary, it contains issues that have required very delicate and sensitive negotiations in order to reach a balance between the prerogatives of independent safety investigations and those of justice authorities – between the need, on the one hand, to conduct investigative work and the need to protect the anonymity of those who are affected by the investigation, on the other. we have done this because we want to learn the right lessons from that work and ultimately provide good and modern rules which will help us investigate professionally and prevent future accidents and incidents, and which will guarantee a high level of air safety for european citizens. it was therefore so important that both the council and parliament were ready to make the necessary compromises. i would like to thank you all for that. i would also like to underline that the commission shares the assessment of the rapporteur. the agreed text represents a good and fair balance between the different interests involved. of course, at the end of the day, the biggest winner today is the european passenger. aviation safety and protection of passengers is a priority for the commission and has been the primary concern of all of us around the negotiating table. we should therefore feel proud today. i invite all members of the european parliament to support the compromise text, as negotiated by the rapporteur.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: our colleague, christine de veyrac, has presented us with an excellent report after very long negotiations, but it has been rightly said in the introductory remarks: this is a matter of human life, and we must simply reflect that this investigation and prevention of accidents in civil aviation now refers to a directive from 1994. that means that we now have a common air transport market, we have european open skies, that is a reality. air traffic in europe has more than doubled in the last 15 years and our joint efforts are naturally directed towards continuing to improve air safety. it is absolutely essential that we investigate and work out every incident and every aviation accident, and this has been emphasized by our colleague mrs de veyrac here, and also in the field of tension between the judicial authorities and the independent investigative agencies. the european aviation safety agency will play a very important role in this area in the future and we must strengthen it in this respect. but we also need to use the national expertise we have in this area - as we have in germany with the federal aviation administration, and other countries too - to be able to present exact and very precise research results from which we can learn, but also - and we are also told that money is being wasted on new agencies - to save money and to cooperate better. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by addressing a point which our shadow rapporteur, mr jelko kacin, was unable to mention for reasons of time, but which is very important to him. this is not just about investigating the causes of accidents, but also about protecting victims and their families. my group in particular has been very active in ensuring that in any event the relatives are fully and promptly informed of the accident and that this is also done in the case of same-sex partnerships. we have already noted: it is a truly groundbreaking report, written by the rapporteur. i can't say enough good things about that. the fact is that the directive as it stands is 16 years old. a lot has happened since then, technically. we need more flight safety. in order to investigate accidents, we need information that can be independently verified. the united states has long had an independent investigative body and a guarantee of protection if you give testimony that could later be used against you as a party. we've reached that point. i would like to thank mrs de veyrac very much for this excellent work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 september, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation by mr csaba sógor, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of pakistan on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation (com (2009) 0106 c7-0264/2009 2009/0036(nle)) (a7-0231/2010), the question for an oral answer to the commission (o-0104/2010) on community readmission agreements with third countries by ms sylvie guillaume and mr claude weber, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, ms hélène flautre and ms judith sargentini, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist group, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of pakistan on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation (com (2009) 0106 c7-0264/2009 2009/0036 (nle)) (a7-0231/2010), the question for an oral answer to the commission (o-0104/2010) on community readmission agreements with third countries by mr sylvie guillaume and mr claude weber, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, ms hélène flautre and judith sargentini, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr fr ren/european union, marie allianz al
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, the subject of pakistan. we are discussing this at a difficult time for pakistan and i think we all support the full solidarity with the people who have had to endure this disaster, and my colleague mr sógor has already said a lot about the specific agreement. i would therefore like to make a few comments on the question of the european union's readmission agreements with third countries. firstly, these agreements are useful and necessary because we have laws in europe governing immigration. but if we're right about immigration, then there are people who are here illegally, and then the next logical, consistent step is that there has to be repatriation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why i think we have to be consistent. secondly, the standard human rights must be respected. the alternative to such an agreement is not, of course, that we have better human rights standards. the rejection of this agreement is an acceptance that we have 27 different legal standards in the european union, which are not monitored in the way that is done at european level. the third question, which is important to me, is how we can make partnerships with third countries attractive in the future. i ask the commission to work more closely together in the future. if we are to open up european markets at the world trade forum, then third countries must also give us the opportunity to talk about repatriation. or, when it comes to the question of legal immigration, third countries must be able to make concessions to us on return. this means that networking is important here.
i have to say, madam president, the rapporteur has said in his introduction that parliament must now give its consent to the agreements. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the agreement is implemented. the first agreement after lisbon has a special signal. but what message are we sending to the eu and beyond? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but we don't really know what happens to the people in those countries when we send them back. i would have liked to see greater sensitivity in this house to the treatment of refugees and the respect of human rights. the adoption of this agreement is a serious threat to our credibility in matters of democracy and human rights. i therefore ask all members not to vote in favour of this agreement.
mr president, one point of clarification that does not seem to be very clear here is that people who have the status of being illegal have not necessarily entered the european union illegally. they might very well be asylum-seekers whose claims have been rejected, or people who came with a tourist visa and overstayed, so they are not like those people who have entered via criminal efforts in a very illegal way. ms malmström, you said that you want to meet the expectations of european citizens. what our citizens expect us to have is a european union of human rights and respect for human beings. those expectations should also be met. i wonder how you will be able to monitor people who are sent back, to ensure that they are not persecuted and tortured. how will you look into this? what will this look like in practical terms?
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members of parliament, i would like to thank mr kazak for having prepared this balanced and fair report on trade and economic relations with turkey. i also wish to thank the members of the international trade committee for their valuable contributions to this report. while the mainstay of this report is the eu-turkey customs union, other issues are covered – such as road transport, quotas and visas – which i prefer not to dwell upon as trade commissioner. i do not have to remind this assembly that turkey is a very important economic and political counterpart for the eu. indeed, turkey is the eu’s seventh trade partner and the eu is the main trade partner for turkey. moreover, turkey is the sole country with a sizeable trade with which the eu has a customs union. in addition to this, turkey is a candidate country. all of this accounts for a truly unique bilateral relationship. the legal framework of eu-turkey trade relations is the customs union. as noted in the report, the customs union has been instrumental in developing our bilateral trade for the benefit of both parties. however, a number of difficulties remain, many of which result from turkey’s failure to properly and fully implement the customs union, thereby causing major and increasing trade problems which have remained unresolved for many years. in contrast, the european union has fully implemented the customs union. some years ago the commission offered turkey the opportunity to deepen the customs union and to conclude additional agreements that would cover, inter alia, services and public procurements, but our offer was not accepted by turkey. the commission is ready to make the necessary moves to continue to enhance bilateral trade relations with turkey. i am ready to further consider with turkey ways to address turkish concerns relating to the free trade agreements concluded by the eu with third countries. at a technical level, significant work is being done to provide our turkish partners with information on progress in negotiations on trade agreements with other countries. we have also included a reference to the eu-turkey customs union in the relevant impact assessment studies. we regularly encourage turkey to inform us, in a timely manner, of its sensitivities and concerns. furthermore, we inform our free trade agreement (fta) partners of the eu-turkey customs union and insist that they also conclude an fta with turkey. this commitment by the eu-fta partner is generally included in the relevant agreement, either as a full article or as a declaration. it is true that we are facing problems with some member states that are reluctant to see the inclusion of such language in our ftas. i regret this situation, but i can assure you that i will continue to do my best to ensure that the eu-turkey customs union continues to function well. let me say very clearly that we are facing some resistance and unwillingness from turkey to implement fully the customs union. the report clearly highlights those areas and measures taken by turkey that are not in line with the customs union. i trust that this report will help motivate turkey to take the necessary positive steps to improve the overall functioning of the customs union and to come forward to negotiate additional agreements that would strengthen our bilateral trade and economic relationship. i would also like to take this opportunity to inform you that i am personally committed to enhancing trade relations between turkey and the eu. in june this year, the turkish state minister for foreign trade paid me a call and we agreed to stay in touch regularly. he recently invited me for a meeting in ankara in the coming months – an invitation i will accept in the hope that we will make progress in resolving quickly, sustainably and in a friendly way, the continuing trade problems. thank you for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union has a strong trade partner with turkey and vice versa. although turkey has greatly diversified its trade in recent years, we as the european union are still turkey's largest trading partner. the only thing that can be improved is what is good, and that is the point of this report. the council also called on turkey to reduce high customs duties on agricultural products and to remove the remaining non-tariff barriers to free movement of goods. simplification of procedures and reduction of red tape would also improve trade. there are of course improvements that turkey has made in recent times, as the commissioner has pointed out. nevertheless, foreign investment would flow more if it were possible for us to improve intellectual property laws and for turkey to actually comply with the regulations here. the laws are not being effectively implemented in turkey. we must also call on turkey to implement fully the additional protocol to the association agreement. there are still obstacles to the free movement of goods which must be removed. when turkey is discussed in this parliament - and also in the committee on international trade - it is very often a very emotional debate. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur in particular for having succeeded in drafting this text in a very open and good way, in cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs, so that we can all relate to it, as the vote in committee has shown. thank you very much, mr. kazak.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this very good report, which also shows how important a trade partner turkey is for the eu and vice versa, and how important the customs union is. there are still lots of problems which we have to tackle on both sides, in turkey and the eu. in turkey, there is a great need to strengthen, among other things, workers’ rights. but there are also problems we need to address here in the european union, with one being visa liberalisation: we should liberalise visas not only for lorry drivers and business people, but also for students, tourists and other people, in order to strengthen cooperation not only between states, but also between people. as for the free trade agreements, we need to involve turkey fully at the negotiating table since it, too, is very much affected by the free trade agreements. in general, our relationship with turkey should be guided by fairness, and that includes the very clear statement that the eu is committed to its promises and will welcome turkey as an eu member as soon as the copenhagen criteria are fulfilled.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not want to point the finger at any one country, but i think it is pointed at all of us, because the eu strategy for 2010 has not worked and we must find new approaches for the new decade up to 2020. in a few weeks' time, the un conference on biodiversity will be held in nagoya, and i hope it will not be as disappointing as the un climate conference in copenhagen. the european union has a major role to play in ensuring that this important global conference on nature conservation does not fail again. we must commit ourselves to a global ambitious programme for the conservation of biodiversity. we must show solidarity in financing these measures and the eu must speak with one voice and not with 27 different languages. the teeb study was called: 50 billion euros lost every year due to the decline of species. the eu budget is very meagre and very small, with 0.2% of the funds allocated to nature conservation. in the medium term, we simply need to spend more money on conservation. as far as the eu's solidarity with the rest of the world is concerned, we also need an instrument with which we can provide a counterpart for the species we harvest, above all for medicinal plants. the developing countries need compensation. i also believe that the key to success is to see biodiversity as a cross-cutting task. agriculture, forestry, fisheries, marine use - these must now be considered from the species point of view. a soil protection directive also gains new weight. soil is a buffer for co2, and soil change is a very negative story. parliament will be committed to biodiversity. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must be sustainable and responsible in our use of nature's great gift. and i see conservation through management. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european environment agency. integrated management creates habitats. we see this in my country, for example, and even more so in the abandoned and uncultivated vineyards. the apollo butterfly, a rare species of butterfly, retreats there. he lives in the open field, not in the bushes. the introduction of integrated pest management and the possibility of targeting plant protection to individual pathogens is particularly beneficial for biodiversity. and for special services, agriculture also needs special remuneration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have already put in place a number of legal provisions. some of them certainly belong on the test bench. we also note that european regulations are not implemented in the same way in all member states. we need to strengthen the obligations of compliance and also uniform controls on implementation. the member states can start protecting the soil now. they do not all have to wait for a european directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the differences in the rules of the member states in the field of intellectual property prevent the protection of intellectual property from being equally effective everywhere. this has a negative impact on the free movement of goods within the internal market and inhibits innovation and investment in this area. in addition, intellectual property infringements are increasingly linked to organised crime. unfortunately, the internet provides an easy-to-use platform for this. an equivalent level of protection can therefore only be achieved by a targeted joint action by the european union. the harmonization of national rules is therefore welcome and a necessary condition for the functioning of the internal market. i would like to thank the rapporteur for taking up an important subject. i am sure we will be discussing this subject many times in this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out that my remarks are complementary to those of my predecessors. in addition to the financial resources needed to deal with flood damage and to take preventive action, we have also learned from the experience of my home region - the free state of saxony - where there have been some recent floods, that the main thing is to improve cooperation between the member states. it is simply a matter of coordinating preventive measures. it is no use if everything is fine downstream, but the flood control measures have not been properly implemented upstream. it's also about communication. the main focus must therefore be on transnational cooperation, as natural disasters do not stop at borders. only together can we effectively counter them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a complementary view from the agricultural perspective: agriculture plays a crucial role in alleviating world poverty and providing food for the population. but to develop a sustainable and stable agriculture, we need fair prices for agricultural products on the world market. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european food safety authority (efsa) and the establishment of a european food safety authority (efsa). secondly, of course, we also need stable political conditions and the absence of corruption. this is an opportunity to fight hunger, to create jobs and to reduce poverty. the european union has made mistakes in the past in this area. but we have identified the problems and closed them down. it is simply wrong to blame these export subsidies on the european agricultural policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the colleagues who have worked so hard on this project, in particular mr vidal-quadras. this is proof that european policy is able to respond to crises and offer solutions that help. we've had these supply-side situations a few times. the problem of security of supply has become clearer and more obvious. we were forced to act, and we acted. we have found solutions that were not easy, that also mean new tools and that - and this is what i find interesting about it - not only create infrastructure standards in europe, not only create common rules for prevention and emergency plans, not only provide the certainty - which the commissioner has just rightly pointed out - that we can offer people 30 days of security in the future, but also have shown that we are able to explore compromises that then lead to actionable solutions. - that was a difficult path, but now it appears that both the role and the responsibility of the companies that build networks, that are responsible for networks, and the mobility policy, which says: we do not force things, then in the end, and are no longer smart and therefore no longer reasonable, for example, in terms of flexibility, but also in terms of the possibility to maintain regional cooperation and not always be able to share the cost and the resources, but also to maintain the individual cases, is at the heart of the matter. it is equally important to point out that the member states must also assume their responsibilities, but if solutions cannot be found, it is the commission that has an additional task - the commission, which is strengthened, but which does not decide alone, but then decides when other solutions are no longer possible, or which has the last word. so flexibility, solutions that keep the burdens within manageable limits, that last but not least ensure that there are solutions, and that is the good news from brussels for the people of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking commissioner oettinger and congratulating mr vidal-quadras on his report. the spanish presidency has also helped to produce a very good report. natural gas is important and is becoming more important. i am not saying that we should be in favour of the european parliament, but that we should be in favour of the commission. in the country i represent, every second household depends on natural gas, but 40% comes from russia. that is why it is important and right to extend this directive by means of legislation. because we now have prevention plans, prevention measures, emergency plans with three levels of crisis. because we do not want to see again the images we saw in the crisis winter of 2009, the gas winter. we want to see european partners, but also neighbouring countries, not freezing any more. this is why this report is also a document of our common european responsibility - not only for our eu member states but also for our neighbouring countries. ladies and gentlemen, the law is good, but we need other ways. i therefore welcome the announcement by commissioner oettinger, here also all the infrastructure measures - some have been mentioned - to promote nabucco, northstream, southstream in such a way that we have diversification, that we are not dependent on unilateral subcontracting. but what we also need are storage facilities. we need more storage space. in germany, they are 70 days, and this is not given in every country. we must raise the standards in all countries. and it stays with the energy mix. this remains our greatest challenge, which we must tackle together. thank you very much and good luck to this law!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to take up two points which were raised earlier in the debate by my colleagues. first of all, mr turmes has made a very strong point about the predictability of gas demand. we are looking at the subject of gas supply in a one-sided way. mr oettinger, i would like to ask you how you intend to incorporate this second elementary point of view into the strategy. and secondly, following on from a comment by mr swoboda, i would like to take up again this idea of the energy community in the european union. the delors-led think tank notre europe has recently raised this issue, and former commissioner michaele schreyer raised it many years ago. is that a positive objective of your work, mr oettinger?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, i share your basic view that the european union must pursue a strategic partnership with china. however, i believe that if, after such a phrase has been uttered, we are almost always talking about the chinese market again, then we are narrowing the horizon with which we must approach this strategic relationship. we are underestimating china and we are underestimating our own european responsibility. i would therefore like to address issues which go beyond the economic relations between us and the chinese, which are certainly very important. in a remarkable move in vietnam recently, the us secretary of state, hillary clinton, has taken a position on the security of the south china sea which should be sympathetic to europeans, namely that of a multilateral conflict management strategy in this difficult but also economically important area for us. is there a european position on this? do we share this view or do we not have a position on this? the next climate summit is coming up in cancún. the chinese - i say this with a touch of irony - were not entirely helpful last time. we could also criticize ourselves. is there a european strategy for how we can work with the chinese to get things moving with a view to cancun and beyond, given that american input on this issue is currently largely absent because of domestic political difficulties? of course, we must also address economic policy issues. but when you talk about raw materials and rare earths, this parliament would be interested in what strategy you intend to adopt. do we want to threaten the chinese with wto lawsuits? do you think this is the right way to go? are we looking for a strategy of cooperation, for example by transferring technology to help the chinese solve their problems in this context? i would like us not only to talk about strategic partnership but also to talk about the strategy and the strategic european objectives with which we are pursuing it.
i have to say, madam president, i support all speakers who want to talk about values, freedom and human rights in the face of the communist dictatorship in china. i would like to concentrate on the economic issues today. because china is no longer a developing country, but today the second largest economy in the world. in the crisis year of 2009, china's economic growth was 9%, and in the first half of 2010 it was over 11%. we must therefore address a number of issues, because our economic relations with china are still overshadowed by existing trade barriers, particularly in the chinese market. i have been receiving more and more inquiries in recent weeks and months from businessmen complaining about the deteriorating business climate in china. many markets remain closed, in the construction industry or in the financial sector. there are problems with direct investment; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. the lack of access to public procurement, free market access to raw materials and an increasing number of anti-dumping cases, export subsidies, export restrictions, product piracy and counterfeiting are further examples of the current unfortunate lack of cooperation with china. but china is a partner on an equal footing and must take responsibility for the functioning of the world economy. china must not close the chinese market to foreign companies. mr de gucht, you told us in committee that the european union should be open but not naively open. i am in complete agreement with you and i say quite explicitly: i love your clear words, which you find regularly. please find these words in china. the commission must do more to promote and defend the interests of our european businesses. the commission must also press china to finally fulfil its obligations as a wto member. i have a great interest in a good partnership with china. but it also involves a partnership on both sides.
the commission has already done so. strategic partnership means speaking with one voice. one of the two partners - the european union - is unfortunately not so far along in many areas, especially when it comes to economic issues in this area. we know that the strategic partnership involves the shared responsibility of the partners. that is why the question of partnership in foreign and security policy, in regional security, including in matters such as iran, north korea, etc., is of extreme importance. in particular, in the last few areas, we have seen a lot of developments, and we see a growing responsibility on the part of china in these matters. but it also means seeing this in trade and economic standards, in universal human rights, environmental and social rights - there has to be shared responsibility here too. i believe that china should not hide behind developing countries in these matters as it becomes stronger politically and economically. china's great economic achievement since about 1980 is admirable. china, which already had one-third of the world's gdp in the 18th century, is on its way back to that status, and we don't want to pretend. at the moment we have this with 8% of the population, and here we have a dramatic change of situation, which politically follows an economic change of power. the financial crisis has shown this very clearly. but it also means that this can only work if china is prepared to have a real opening up of markets, to refrain from taking exclusionary approaches in public procurement, in licensing, to apply copyright wrongly or not at all, or to conclude contracts only if the necessary know-how transfer from the chinese point of view is made. i think we also have a task at this summit to try to define china's market economy status, because i think that is a key question for how these developments will go.
i have to say, madam president, the council has not yet reached a decision on the matter. the debate is now largely over and the council is completely absent. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council does not take a decision on the matter. and how can we make it clear to the council that parliament is entitled to play a role in these strategic relations?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to draw attention once again to the agreement reached between the european parliament and the high commissioner/vice-president of the commission. we have achieved that a commissioner can speak for them here in their capacity as president of the council of foreign ministers, even on matters of mixed importance. i assume that mr de gucht did this. we are not going to re-introduce the double-hat council here. i see mr de gucht here also as representing mrs ashton in her full capacity.
i have to say, madam president, china is a country of enormous growth, of enormous contradictions, and a country that is becoming more powerful in the global world. it is true that we need our own european strategy for how we want to proceed. we need to make our interests clear that we want multipolar global relations. we have an interest in finding a compromise in climate policy. we want sustainability in general, and we do not want a colonial discourse, but we want relations on an equal footing with the chinese. but i am equally clear: human rights are universal, they are still not respected in china, freedom of the press is not granted, and for that reason you must also criticize the government in china. i believe that the arms embargo must not be lifted, that we must criticise the laogai labour camps, that trade unions must finally be allowed, and that we must demand cultural autonomy for many minorities, particularly the tibetans and the uyghurs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry about that. i forgot my card at the foreign affairs committee. they're picking her up now. there are so few votes. i have been here since the first vote. i just wanted to say that.
i have to say, madam president, the european union and turkey have extensive trade relations and since 1996 a customs union, and yet there are still a lot of trade barriers. i am therefore particularly pleased that parliament has today called on the republic of turkey to eliminate the cumbersome import procedures and to align its quota system for the duty-free treatment of agricultural processed products, as these are not compatible with the customs union. secondly, we must also work together to ensure that agricultural products imported from the republic of turkey are of the same standard as those produced in the european union. i agreed to it today. but you could say: there is still a lot to do, let's get to it!
i have to say, madam president, the diversity of plant and animal species is a key basis for the food and raw material supply of the growing world population. it is also a prerequisite for our ability to adapt to climate change. this biodiversity is now threatened all over the world, all by humans. we must therefore stop the loss of biodiversity and try to repair the damage caused. the best way to protect biodiversity is to use it sustainably. in other words, in this situation the european farmers are allies and not adversaries. in future, we should also increasingly consider them as allies. finally, i have some good news: in my region, the free state of saxony, we have managed to re-domesticate the wolf after more than 200 years. that's a good example. we should have more good examples.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join in the thanks to the rapporteur, linda mcavan, and i would also like to thank and commend our shadow rapporteur in the epp group, pilar ayuso, for her work. linda mcavan and the shadow reporters have delivered a good result, which we will be voting on tomorrow. patient safety is greatly improved, and in my view, the biggest improvement is that we've gotten much better information for patients, largely without much controversy. this database, this web portal, which we will have in all member states in all languages, will improve information for patients and above all it will also help mobile patients. if you are travelling in europe today and you receive a leaflet in a foreign language, you are even more helpless than the average patient who does not understand the leaflet. if i can get it off the internet through this web portal in all languages, that will certainly be a great help. this proposal, which has now been largely silently adopted, improves information much more than the proposal put forward by mr verheugen under the heading 'patient information'. we are working on that and i had a very good conversation with the rapporteur, christofer fjellner. we will of course have to add to what has now come out of pharmacovigilance, but nevertheless what linda mcavan and the shadow rapporteurs have achieved is already a huge step forward. i would also like to end by welcoming the fact that we are going to revise the package leaflet. i think the commission should make an effort to do this quickly. i am a little saddened that we have not been able to agree on the summary of the package insert. the commission had certainly made the mistake of proposing a black box; the black box was intimidating. but perhaps we should also think again about whether there can be a summary of the main points in a suitable form. this is also a subject for the future. i would like to thank once again all those who contributed to the success of this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work. good pharmacovigilance protects european citizens, and at the same time we empower the adult patient. two things i particularly like about the safety portal and the package insert. the positive news is that this decision will give us pharmacovigilance portals in all member states where the approved package leaflets and other information must be published. we're putting an end to an untenable situation. in many member states, the package insert is not allowed to be placed on the net. but this is not the reality of many citizens who are exercising their right to free movement. now, they will soon be able to download online package inserts in their mother tongue throughout europe. even if you have lost the package insert once, you can still retrieve it. at the same time, i call for an improvement in the package insert and i very much welcome the decision to ask the commission to submit its own legislative proposal on this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because what they have achieved now, to have a conclusion after the first reading, that is excellent. that's great! it is an important instrument, and we have heard it many times today. what surprised me most was that the member states agreed so playfully that they are now setting up a database and that it is also being linked at european level. i would just like to point out one more thing: we should do more, and i urge the commission to use the possibilities of the agency for medicinal products and also the eudravigilanc database to develop and promote better the quality of health care and the quality of products in europe. there is an important condition here. i would caution against taking too much from individual citizens' reports of side effects. we should protect ourselves against this and should only underwrite them professionally and then put them in this database. not everyone who criticizes something has the right to be documented there.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for more than a year we have been discussing here the commission's proposal to revise the 1998 directive on the placing of biocidal products on the market. we particularly welcome the proposal now because we are now converting a directive into a regulation. europe must live up to its responsibilities. this means that the areas relevant to the internal market must be regulated clearly and unambiguously by regulations. biocides are part of our civilization and our standard of living. they are indispensable to our high standards of health and hygiene. as disinfectants or pesticides, they protect against dangerous diseases and their vectors. our society, with its high population density, requires special forms of hygiene so that germs and diseases cannot be transmitted. but our international mobility is spreading diseases, viruses and bacteria around the globe at a brisk pace. hospitals are not places where infections can be spread. the laundry facilities must be able to control and eliminate all conceivable introduced germs. biocides are also used as preservatives in wood, fibres, leather, rubber, bricks and metalworking products. biocides kill fungi, germs and pests to protect us. they must be effective, and therefore dangerous if used incorrectly. that's why we need strict regulation. the benefits and risks must be balanced. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a responsible manner. not much helps a lot, but too much can also hurt. so we also need a strategy for the sustainable use of biocides and for information on alternatives. we must remember that the primary concern is not protection against biocides, but protection by biocides. if the lice are dancing on your head, so to speak, you must be able to fight them. but first, please, with the ear comb. if that doesn't work, i'll use a biocidal de-diluent. nanotechnology as a new technology must be subjected to a particularly critical evaluation. because nanoparticles go under the skin, so to speak, and directly into the water. we must support research and innovation, not hinder it. studies on biocides in water need to be intensified. so far, there is little data. the aim of this regulation is to harmonize the internal market and to provide a streamlined procedure for the authorization of active substances and products. for the first time, biocidal products will be subject to registration. it is obvious and right that this should be organised and managed centrally at the european level. this will bring real benefits for the internal market and for consumers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the term 'commercial'. if we start a new regulation today, we must do it right away or gradually within the time limit. the biocidal products market is characterised by numerous product types and special applications, often in smaller quantities. we need this diversity of different products to control the diversity of pests. because by reducing active ingredients, the development of resistance in the parasites and insects will increase. that would be fatal. the costs of registration and authorisation must therefore be kept within limits and be accountable, especially to the many small and medium-sized enterprises. strict exclusion criteria are necessary. that's right, you're right. parliament proposes clear and unambiguous exclusion criteria and we define narrow exceptions to meet the respective needs of human health and the environment. consumer information is also important to us. therefore, biocidal treated materials should also be included in the scope of the regulation. in future, materials sold in europe may only be treated with biocides approved in this country. the serious health problems caused by fungicides in shoes and furniture in the far east over the past year have shown that stricter regulations and, above all, strict import controls are important here. this will protect consumers and prevent distortions of competition. we have worked out a compromise vote on these principles. i would also ask the members to support this compromise.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not biocides are found in many cleaning products, disinfectants, mosquito repellents and many other everyday products that people come into contact with on a daily basis. there are currently over 50 000 biocidal products in the european union. i would like to make this clear to everyone: biocides are used by a large number of private individuals. biocides are often hard to degrade, some are carcinogenic or other highly toxic poisons and can cause harm to humans, animals and the environment when used or disposed of. the use of biocides in residential areas, for example in wood preservatives and insect sprays, poses a particular risk to humans and especially to young children. although manufacturers point out that their products pose no risk when used correctly, 400000 tonnes of biocides distributed and used by private individuals in the eu each year clearly have to take account of misuse and accidents. i would like to ask you to accept the amendment tabled by mr glinne, because it is not yet adopted. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the aim of this regulation, as proposed by the commission, is to increase the free movement of biocidal products within the european union, or will the plenary be concerned with the protection of people and the environment? a strict ban on particularly dangerous substances is essential. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not left behind.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new chemicals. i think there is a great deal of progress compared with the old 1998 directive. that has been said here. we are making a comprehensive regulation here not only for products produced in the eu but also for imports. it's very important. we are improving the labelling of these substances and - as dan jørgensen has said - we are calling for the substitution of alternative methods for animal testing of these products, i.e. less or no animal testing in this area, and of course the substitution of less dangerous substances for highly dangerous ones. these are all advances, we can tell the citizens, and they are in the service of health and the environment. i wondered how much controversy there was about whether or not echa, the european chemicals agency in helsinki, should be responsible for the control and authorization of products. so we want to have a common standard in europe, so that the products can be marketed. that is why it is right that echa does this. i would ask the commissioner: is echa sufficiently funded, is it sufficiently organised to be able to carry out this task? i would like to thank mrs klaß and the shadow rapporteurs for this consensus.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate today has shown that it was a very difficult report and that we have now found a good compromise. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for this. the compromise reached compensates for the shortcomings of the existing directive, harmonises the authorisation procedures - which i consider to be extremely important - and ensures a high level of protection for health and the environment. but on the other hand, the provisions do not go that far. it is very important and the debate has clearly emphasized that these products are important for our environment and for development in agriculture and the food sector. i would just like to mention the example of rodenticides. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. i have seen firsthand how farmers deal with the plague of mice and rats in their fields. yes, there are significant losses! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have found a good solution in this report, because we are of course dealing with dangerous substances. and if there are substitutes, then of course they have to be used. that's very clear. i would ask the commission to include this new form of nanotechnology more fully in its research and to make greater use of it. we also have a chance to find substances that are less dangerous and can achieve a higher effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's good that we're concerned about biocides, because they're toxic and dangerous. i also wonder why we do not follow the system we decided on at reach in every chemical legislation we make here. we have put in place the largest chemical legislation in the world. we have a principle there: collect data, evaluate, and approve. why should we now, in the next chemical legislation, have to deviate from this and redefine exclusion criteria which end up also removing chemicals from the market which we actually need and which are in some cases without alternatives? i think we are going to end up in a dead end if we make chemical policy exclusively through a toxicity lens. pest infestation can be much more dangerous, especially for young children, in terms of the risk of disease transmission than the last milligram of biocides we use to fight it. i would like to see more overall restraint and, above all, regulations that can be handled not only by large groups of companies that have the resources to discuss with licensing authorities, but also by smaller companies that offer good products in niche markets.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, let me begin by emphasizing again how much the commission appreciates the commitment and interest of the members of this house in this matter. although it is a very complex proposal, it has several important and politically sensitive aspects. the remarks you have just made and the questions you have raised show how well the members of this house have understood the various aspects of the question. i would also like to recall the commission's concerns regarding the amendments concerning the extension of the scope of the union's authorization system. while the commission can in principle support the extension of the scheme to a wider group of biocidal products, we believe that this should be accompanied by adequate resources for echa and the commission, and mechanisms for gradual implementation. only if these two conditions are met can we have an effective system, which is our common objective. as regards the questions from mrs sartori and mr leinen, president of the commission, how can we ensure that echa can carry out this workload in the future? the adequacy of the resources made available to echa is one of the commission's main concerns in relation to the proposals to extend the scope of the union's authorisation system. we are working with the industry to get a more accurate picture of the number of biocidal products currently on the eu market. estimates vary between 9 000 and 60 000 products. it is therefore very difficult to predict the additional workload for echa to include more products in the centralised system. the general objective of the proposed regulation is to improve the functioning of the internal market for biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of environmental and health protection. i will even answer mr schnellhardt on nanomaterials. the commission agrees that a definition of nanomaterials is necessary. it is awaiting the results of the public consultation organised by one of our scientific committees and hopes to be able to propose a definition in the near future which meets these criteria. as regards amendment no 243, i have to answer to mr davies. the commission cannot support this amendment because it is a question of calling into question annex i, which is based on a thorough impact assessment and has just come into force. so i am convinced that we have done a good job. the constructive dialogue between parliament, the council and the commission during the second reading must be continued.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i am grateful to the commission for the information it has given me. but sometimes i think we don't really know what we're talking about. i want to say it again: we are talking about products that protect us and our standard of living, our hygiene, which we certainly need, that fight germs and parasites, and also products that ensure our safety. the term biocide covers all of these. they are vital to us and to our future. the environment and health standards were at the forefront of all our discussions. it is clear: this is what we are working for here, for clear exclusion criteria and narrowly defined exceptions, for objective consumer information. commissioner, i am not entirely satisfied with your answer when you talk about echa. echa has the resources, it has the hardware, it can handle reach, and it can certainly do a lot in the future with biocides. all we need now is some smart ideas. we'll let you in here in a phasing-in period. let's use this time to come up with some smart ideas. you can't just say, we don't have the money and we can't do it. the future is a europe-wide authorization if we are to live up to the single market. i would like to ask all of us to do so, and i would also like to ask the commission to support us in this.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now in the most difficult period of consolidation of public budgets in the european union, and this cannot of course be ignored in our discussions. in accordance with rule 81 of the rules of procedure, we are presenting to you today an interim report on the council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework 2007-13. i say to the council: we are extremely dissatisfied because, in fact, no negotiations have yet been held on the adjustment of the multiannual financial framework on the basis of the lisbon treaty. this adjustment is based on paragraph 4 of the existing interinstitutional agreement, which states that in the event of a revision of the treaty with budgetary implications, the existing interinstitutional agreement must be adjusted accordingly. this is done by mutual agreement between the institutions. furthermore, article 6 (4) of the lisbon treaty states: 'the union shall provide itself with the means necessary to attain its objectives and carry out its policies.' in fact, the public debate on the public budget of the european union is a bit short. most people don't know that we're not supposed to get into debt. most people forget that if we look at the period 20002008 the average annual budget growth of the 27 member states during this period was 4.4%, while the european budget grew by 4.5%, almost to the same level. but during this period we also supported the financial enlargement of the european union from 15 to 27 member states. and we have always - also in this financial perspective - remained very far below the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework in commitments, but especially in the budgets actually adopted, and in payments, in the 2010 budget some 12 billion below the multiannual financial planning. we do not need to be taught about serious and restrained budgetary policy! the commission and the council prefer to see the necessary lisbon adjustments as being of a more technical nature. but should we be bound by it without getting the necessary political change? i don't think he did. we want the necessary political adjustments to strengthen the union's capacity to act internally and externally for the next few years. we all know that. the lisbon treaty gives the european union new tasks, starting with the foreign office's space policy, and we are also currently dealing with the refinancing of the iter project. in addition, the european council of heads of state or government has decided on a financial stabilisation mechanism bypassing the budgetary authority and at the same time we see the council making promises to finance agencies, bananas, iter a salad of figures that nobody can believe. overall, we conclude - also in this interim report - that a change to the multiannual financial framework is needed, including the flexibility mechanisms in the existing framework. it must also be clear that there can be no new agencies without new funding. we should also make it clear that no negotiations need take place without a minimum degree of budgetary flexibility to ensure flexible majority decisions, as was the case before the lisbon treaty with regard to the first stage of the revision of a budget below 0.03% of gni. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now, i ask you not to be so skeptical. that does not change the fact that we have to agree on the annual budget procedure. but the alternative for the council in all these multiannual projects and new priorities is ultimately: do we want to meet three years in a row and argue the same issues every time and negotiate the most difficult negotiations? this is a waste of human resources. or are we trying to find a reasonable, comprehensive solution to the questions i have raised? this is a call to begin genuine political negotiations between the commission, the council and parliament, in the spirit of the treaties.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you, thank you. i think we need to separate the problems. when we adopted the present financial perspective, this was achieved with a promise from the council to us that there would be a change, a review, and that we would agree together very closely on the problems of this budget. the problems are two-fold: our own resources system - that is, where the money for the european budget comes from - is no longer as up to date, no longer as forward-looking as it should be. we do not want new eu taxes that burden citizens more, but we greens want a system of own resources where we collect more environmental taxes and a financial transaction tax, which means that the current payments of the member states will be less! it's very important to me. so we are not simply calling for eu taxes that burden citizens more, but we are looking for a new financing model that is fairer, more equitable and more environmentally friendly. then more was promised, because we all know that the current budget is too rigid. we cannot change too much within the budget. we have new political challenges and the european budget is not yet in a position to respond adequately to them. that is why the council and the commission are always proposing to finance something new that the budget does not provide. we must find a way out of this situation, and the council has not yet shown any real willingness to do so, and i think this is a major political problem for the european union, because we cannot reach our citizens in this way. what we have to do, however, is to do the same with the lisbon treaty: we want to do more together on energy policy at european level, we want to do more to combat climate change, we want to do more for space travel, tourism and also in foreign policy. but if we want to do all this and take it seriously, we must adapt our european budget to this. the council must act decisively. this means not just more money, but more flexibility within the budget, a new strategic orientation, a genuine future orientation of european policy, and we will then be able to finance what we want to achieve with the eu 2020 strategy. we cannot do that with the present budget. we need new strategic choices to make the european union truly fit for the future. of course, we members of parliament defend our powers and we want what we have been promised by the lisbon treaty, namely that parliament should always be adequately involved. we're suing you. thank you so much.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have noted that the council does not wish to discuss the multiannual financial framework. i would like to inform the council that the european parliament is already prepared to discuss it and that the council cannot behave like a kindergarten and say that it does not answer our questions or our proposals. secondly, i have to ask the council in this context whether it wants lisbon or whether it does not want lisbon. the lisbon treaty is not a purely technical change, but it means more tasks, more tasks to be fulfilled and thus also to answer related financial questions. the council also adopted decisions leading to new financial expenditure. this has been done by many colleagues. if the council wants this and if the council wants no more money to be spent, then the council must also say where it wants to save, how it wants to save, where exactly it wants to shift, and not just propose general percentage shifts and then leave it to parliament and the commission to decide on the inconveniences, especially since the possibilities for shifting and changing the budget are extremely limited for us. the additional tasks you have given us are so challenging that they do not involve small additional sums - i will just mention the areas of financial solidity of our countries and their corresponding financial difficulties. if the program is to be used, it is not a small sum that can be spent on the side. the same applies to iter, the same applies to questions of internal security, the same applies to major research questions, the same applies to questions when i refer to areas of priority for parliament, namely in the field of youth training and research. we are dealing partly with a lack of implementation, and partly with a lack of transparency in the spending of funds. all these questions must be dealt with and worked out in concrete terms and not be answered by the council's silence.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. today you are making it easy for us again - thank you very much - because we too rarely see such a closed picture in the european parliament. there's a certain arrogance on your part to build this united front. i am not sure that i should congratulate you as a politician on this, because it is not a stroke of genius. i want to tell you that i am glad to see the seats empty, because i think our citizens deserve more than to watch us play games. which is why we think you should reconsider your position. promise, broken. you don't keep promises, and that's a serious business. the commission is not sure. dear janusz lewandowski, a little more manly courage would not be wrong. we don't want to talk about money or more money, we should talk about content. and if you look at the situation in the structural funds, for example, where the remaining liquidity is accumulating and reaching dizzying heights and increasing, then it is time that we started to deal with these things seriously instead of talking nonsense to each other. the commission is now quite desperate because the money cannot be spent. that is why we have developed new instruments - the council and the commission have developed new instruments - and that is why the debate is even possible. the incredible thing about this process is that keeping the promises would ultimately allow us to remedy these conditions, which no national parliament would allow in its budget. what are we gonna do? i would ask the council to keep its word, and the commission to keep its word. we have established a procedure, and that procedure must be followed! then secondly, i want us to go back to the content. if you don't do all that, we'll know how to defend ourselves. it only helps if you freeze the files. hostage taking is actually an illegitimate tool of politics. but if you leave us no choice, then we will have to consider this very seriously.
member of the commission. − madam president, it was very clear to me while listening to the debate that the positions of parliament and the council are rather distant. this might be a problem as we are coming up to conciliation very soon. what is to be on the table for the negotiations – not just the figures for 2011, as this is lisbon package – is going to be as multi-dimensional as today’s discussion was. this was not only about regulation, with helga trüpel taking this possibility to contest european taxation. helga, you know that this is not in the mandate. we need to study neutrally the revenue side and not only expenditure and nothing more; a neutral study, not prejudging whether we need new own resources or not. there was a very clear criticism that we are very much delayed with the review of the financial perspective. this was a conscious decision by the council. i think it was a wise decision, and democratic accountability was behind it. the matter was entrusted to the new commission. the commission now is very much about economic governance, which is a major lesson learned from the crisis. we are coming up to october, which worries me also as it is not a good thing to be so late with the review. the major tone of the discussion was that, given the new responsibilities, we need a real revision of the budget. no one is more conscious of the new needs and responsibilities than me, because they are normally channelled via the commission. we are normally about policy mix when confronted with new needs or new big projects, and that policy mix will be presented to you for your advice, for negotiations. i am optimistic that despite my feeling that the positions are distant, conciliation in november/october will bring a positive result.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard a number of you stress the need to revise the budget, particularly in the light of the new responsibilities of the european union. it's an important debate, and i'm the first to admit it. perhaps i didn't make myself understood in my first speech. i did not say that the council wanted to reject any budgetary debate forever, but i do feel that this is a long-term debate, for which we are waiting - as some have said - for the commission's document on the budget review. it will therefore be a very first step in a process of revision of the union budget; the council is not opposed to this, nor is it opposed to the opening of a debate on the future financial perspective. let me return to the specific commission proposal, which aims to cover the additional needs of iter, for a moment, madam president. the council has indeed taken note of the iter financing plan for 2012 and 2013, presented by the commission at the end of july, and is now carefully examining these proposals.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i'll start with iter. it's funny how they do things. there is a council decision, a council position, that there is a need for refinancing of 1.4 billion by 2013, and now there is a lot of pressure to clarify the position of the budgetary authority as soon as possible by the end of september, because we have international obligations. it has already been stated in the iter council that these funds would be made available subject to the approval of the budgetary authority. that is not the way to deal with the budgetary authority and the european parliament! i also expect, mr president-in-office, that we at iter will put together a package, rather than allocating 540 million over the next few years as the commission has proposed. are we going to argue about iter for three years? or do we now want to set up a potentially pioneering international research project together in a sensible way? i hope that we can find common ground there. the report to be voted on tomorrow and the debate have sent a very clear message. the commission should try to enrich the present proposals for the adjustment of the interinstitutional agreement on the basis of this debate. it would be good if the council also made some progress in the first trilogue at the beginning of october. i have the impression that there is sometimes a tendency in the council and in the member states to go back to the pre-lisbon period and not to see that we have a new balance of power and that we are facing new political challenges.
i have to say, madam president, the council has already fled, perhaps because of the strong criticism of the previous item on the agenda, although the surján report is intended to repair part of what the european council decided on the stabilization package during that difficult, long night. the commissioner has now spoken of the unlikely case of the use of these guarantees in the european budget. if we are optimistic, we will start with this basic assumption. however, it must be remembered that we already have three unlikely cases in the european budget with regard to guarantees: a loan fund for the investment bank with almost eur 100 million guarantees. we had the situation before the introduction of the euro where all member states could receive assistance to support balance of payments, at that time a ceiling of 16 billion euros. after the introduction of the euro, this regulation was limited to non-euro countries, and in the wake of the financial crisis in 2009, the ceiling for non-euro countries was increased to eur 50 billion, of which some eur 9-10 billion is currently being used as guarantees. now we have the following situation with the lisbon treaty, where article 143 refers explicitly to the non-euro countries. article 352 would certainly have been the most appropriate legal basis, but this would have involved the involvement of parliaments, including some national parliaments, and so it was probably difficult to use it in this difficult decisionmaking situation. in this respect, i must say that article 122 was certainly not the most correct legal basis, but the most politically appropriate legal basis and the simplest without the involvement of parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i accept that. nevertheless, the european council's decision on this difficult legal basis means access to the margin between the own resources ceiling and the mff ceiling in the case of the case of the case. the treaty clearly states in article 310 that no act may be adopted which exceeds the ceiling of the own resources or the ceiling of the financial envelope. so, in the case of the case, there should be a revision. in this respect, the council itself has asked the question, with a view to future debates, 'what is the ceiling on a financial perspective? a massive step forward without the involvement of the budgetary authority. i therefore say that the future ceiling for the multiannual financial framework will be the own resources ceiling and nothing else. we should agree to the report for reasons of political prudence, but we should also campaign and fight for a reasonable discussion of the obvious regulatory gaps, how we involve parliament and how we fill this regulatory gap. this too should be part of the joint interinstitutional agreement on the budget based on the lisbon treaty.
member of the commission. − unfortunately, i do not have the specific information that the honourable member asked for in relation to the countries of the south. however, i should say that the european research council bases its response to applications purely on excellence. it does not refer to which country, which research centre – none of those issues come into its response and its decision in relation to awarding grants. it looks at things purely from an excellence point of view. that is, i feel, the reason why they have gained such an internationally known reputation very quickly, because it is recognised that their decisions are based purely on excellence. that is something we have to encourage and develop further. also, the european research council should continue to further cooperate with european businesses. i should say that the european research council will launch next year a proof of concept funding option that has the objective of bridging the funding gap in the earliest stages of the innovation process, where, for example, a potential commercial concept needs verification through testing or prototypes, or indeed through the identification of an appropriate market, or through the creation of a protectable intellectual property right. it is certainly very important to encourage the european research council to develop and to be this catalyst throughout the world. it is also interesting to see that a number of member states, including in the south, are now looking at the concept of the european research council in deciding that perhaps they themselves should look at establishing a research council within their own territory.
member of the commission. − the commission is committed to increasing the participation of small- and medium-sized enterprises in eu research programmes and to help them ultimately bring the fruits of their innovation to market. this is a priority for the commission and will remain so for the remainder of its mandate. first, the commission is determined to make the programmes as accessible as possible to smes by simplifying procedures as far as possible while, of course, ensuring sound financial management. in this regard several concrete steps have already been taken, such as reducing the need for audit certificates, fewer ex-ante financial capacity checks and protective measures and streamlined project reporting. but more is needed. the commission has brought forward a communication on simplification that was formally transmitted to parliament and council on 29 april this year, and in which several new short- and longer-term measures are suggested, including the introduction of lump sum payments to cover the personnel costs of owner-managers of smes. the commission will bring forward these measures as rapidly as possible and propose changes to the legal framework if necessary. secondly, the commission has introduced in the latest seventh framework programme, published on 20 july last, a number of measures specifically targeting smes, including earmarked budgets. the budgetary share of smes is forecast to grow from the current 14.7% to 15.7% of the cooperation programme, slightly above the 15% target in the framework programme legislation. of course there is still scope for improvement and the commission will continue to monitor closely the progress of these new measures. thirdly, another initiative that equally supports smes is eurostars, a joint research and development programme with eureka involving 26 member states and six associated countries. it targets r&d-performing smes in projects close to the market. fourthly, the enterprise europe network, set up in 2008 within the competitiveness and innovation programme provides services to smes, encouraging their participation in fp7. more precisely, this network, together and in full complimentarity with the national contact points, assists smes – providing support for awareness-raising, capacity building for participation in fp7, engaging new smes and fp7 proposals, partner search, joint actions addressed to smes and conducting consultations for inclusion of sme-related call topics in work programmes. through these measures and actions it is expected that around 20 000 smes will benefit directly from fp7 by the end of the programme. finally, an e-learning platform specifically designed for smes is planned to go on line in 2011. it aims to facilitate sme access to r&d projects and the exploitation of its results by providing free on-line training, customised information and a communication forum.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. − ba mhaith liom ar dtús a rá leis an bhfeisire gallagher go bhfuil an-áthas orm go dtug sé deis dom, ar mo chéad chuairt ar tháth na gceisteanna ag an bparlaimint seo, ceist a fhreagairt i mo theanga dhúchais féin. bheifí ag súil go gcuirfeadh an ghníomhaireacht feidhmiúcháin taighde, ar ar bronnadh stádas féinrialach i mí meithimh 2009, go mór le héifeacht agus le tapúlacht an phróisis cinnteoireachta agus go gcuirfeadh sí feabhas ar sheirbhísí sin an chreatchláir a thagann faoi chúram na gníomhaireachta. baineann sé seo ar ndóigh leis an gclár cumais do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide go háithrid. tá beartais shainiúla nua curtha i bhfeidhm faoi na cláracha oibre don chomhoibriú 2011 agus ba chóir go meallfadh na beartais sin gnólachtaí beaga agus meánmhéide agus a gcomhpháirtithe taighde i dtaca le bheith rannpháirteach. coimeádfar súil ghéar ar dhul chun cinn na mbeartas sin agus leanfar leis na hiarrachtaí seo le linn chláracha oibre 2012 agus 2013. tá féidearthachtaí breise maidir le rialacha agus nósanna imeachta a shimpliú le fáil sa teachtaireacht ar shimpliúchán ón 30 aibreán – luaigh mé é sin, ar ndóigh, ar ball. is féidir beartais áithrid a chur i bhfeidhm ar an bpointe, láithreach, faoin gcreat dlíthiúil agus rialála atá ann faoi láthair, an tairseach do rannpháirtithe sa taighde, nó an “research participant portal” mar a thugtar air; é sin a oibriú, struchtúr agus tráthú na ngairmeacha a fheabhsú agus méid na gcuibhreannas a athchóiriú mar shampla. tá an coimisiún féin ag déanamh staidéir ar dara sraith de bheartais faoi láthair, mar shampla mionathrú féideartha ar rialacha an choimisiúin a dhéanamh ionas go nglacfar le meánchostais phearsanta níos leithne, comhphrionsabail seachas rialacha sainiúla áithrid a úsáid, agus athbhreithniú a dhéanamh ar na rialacha maidir le cuntais úsaireach. the honourable member, mr crowley, is of course correct when he talks about the large number of new projects coming on stream, and says that one of the many difficulties which smes face is that of intellectual property rights. i chair a commissioners’ group on innovation and one of my colleagues of course is commissioner barnier, who is particularly concerned with this whole area. we have worked very closely together – as i hope you will see when the innovation policy flagship is published at the beginning of october – to try and find a solution to the many problems that smes – and indeed others – have, specifically relating to intellectual property rights. on technical storage data, of course there are, as you said, many opportunities which can be exploited and, indeed, many private companies who feel that this is an area of opportunity for them to be able to exploit those opportunities. we would like to see, when the innovation policy flagship is published, a serious attempt to put forward bold and daring proposals from the commission – that, of course, will then have to be debated, as we know – but which will deal with and face these issues and problems and barriers head on. i am hopeful that those companies that are interested in these kinds of issues will see that the commission is prepared to respond in a positive way, and we need them on board to support us. mr kelly mentioned the quick wins and terms of delivery. well, the quick wins in terms of delivery will come from the innovation flagship. i think you will see issues dealt with here that include standards, regulations, intellectual property and patents. i think you will find that when the flagship policy is actually published we have tackled all of the issues – including venture capital, which is a very difficult issue at the movement for many small companies – that we have discussed with research centres, universities, public and private companies and members of the european parliament, in relation to what should be in the flagship. putting forward a policy, however, does not resolve matters. we then have to monitor it, we have to support it, we have to ensure that those who avail themselves of those policies are prepared to engage with us, and that includes very much, of course, the members of the european parliament.
member of the commission. - thank you for asking. the prospect of cooperation between bavaria and austria and the czech republic is indeed an excellent opportunity to develop this region, which has a total population of five million. the cultural and tourism dimension in particular can play an excellent role in promoting the euroregion. the danube strategy also gives this sector a special role, and it was already discussed in the consultations on the preparation of the strategy. the tourism sector in particular has received a great deal of attention in this region. there are also interesting suggestions in the field of cultural cooperation, for example in the area of intercultural dialogue. as regards the support for the regions concerned, the czech republic, austria and bavaria have various cooperation programmes in this region, which together represent a total of almost eur 430 million for the current period. this is an interesting volume, and it is now up to the regions concerned to make the most of it. the idea of creating an eec structure in the near future also seems to me to be a very suitable way of deepening this crossborder cooperation.
i thank you very much for that very good answer. but now something new has happened: pilsen will probably be the european capital of culture in 2015. i would simply like to ask you whether the cultural dimension in the euroregions can also be strengthened in a very concrete way and whether you think that the euroregions are the right level to be active in.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have a problem with parts of the debate. when we talk about mountains, islands and sparsely populated regions, i get the impression from some of the contributions that they are extraterritorial and directly subordinate to the european union. but it's not like that. each of these territories belongs to a sovereign member state. and the implementation of european decisions and objectives is still a matter for the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. i am thinking of the european level, and it is precisely these areas - mountain regions, sparsely populated areas, islands - that we have always paid particular attention to in commission communications and in the treaty of lisbon. and here in parliament too many decisions have been taken to support the regions. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. and how have the regions themselves dealt with this and made use of the european funding opportunities? i am sorry for the officials of dg regio who are supposed to put the many problems of islands, mountains and sparsely populated areas into one strategy. at the same time, we are seeing such an inflation of strategies - the danube, the baltic sea, the black sea, climate change and more - that we will soon need a strategy for the strategies so that we can still keep track. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. what is the point? this has been said today, and i am very grateful to commissioner hahn for mentioning it: we must fight for cohesion policy and regional policy at european level after 2013. this is the focus of our work and we should convince our colleagues in parliament of this. in a continuation of cohesion and regional policy beyond 2013, mountains, islands and other territories will also find their place. but we should not be entangled in individual motions for resolutions on the subject for which there is no occasion at present.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in 2008, after intensive negotiations, we decided to include aviation in emissions trading. i was a reporter then, and some of the shadow reporters are here today. we did not do this to annoy the aviation industry or third countries, but we did it because we have a big problem. the increase in greenhouse gases is dramatic, and since 1990 greenhouse gas emissions from air travel have doubled. in 1997, the international community, in the kyoto convention, delegated the task of reducing these greenhouse gases to the icao, and unfortunately it must be said that to date there are no concrete results at the icao. it was important for us, when we were making legislation, to include all airlines that take off and land in europe. whether european, american or chinese, they must be included. this is important for the climate effect, and it is also important for fair competition. we have accepted all this in the codecision procedure and parliament has made many compromises with regard to its original ideas. it is therefore important to communicate this to third countries. the compromise cannot be easily changed because we are in the co-decision procedure. of course, there was opposition from third countries at the time, and this is now being articulated in the run-up to the icao general assembly, which will begin next week. i think we're very much on the safe side legally; i have also taken legal action as a rapporteur on several occasions. but like everything else, this is a political issue. and that is why we need political support for our negotiators at icao, for commissioner kallas and for the belgian presidency. i think the position of the united states is particularly piquant. i met the us negotiator last week and asked her: 'do you realize that the climate legislation that the house of representatives has passed and that president obama has always supported in words will also be affected by the position of the americans in the icao that a system can only be based on mutual recognition?' then waxman markey would be illegal. and the americans have not given us an answer - that's what we should ask them. obama should not talk about climate change, but do something about it.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are gathered here today at just before midnight to discuss the issue of climate change. it's a little behind schedule. we've had a financial and economic crisis, we're still in it, but nonetheless, this is an important issue. that is why my colleagues asked how the commission intends to behave in the forthcoming icao negotiations. we have - peter liese has just described it - fought a long time in this house to reach a compromise on the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading system. we've had tough negotiations with the council. i think that this must be represented also abroad, internationally. so far, my assessment of icao, as far as reducing co2 emissions in aviation is concerned, is: we've invested a lot of time, but the result is almost zero. we should therefore defend our proposal on the international level, as we have done here in the house, where we have adopted it by a large majority. the european system will apply from 2012 and we have included third countries. that means that if a plane takes off from washington and lands in the european union, it falls under the european union's emissions trading scheme. climate change is a global problem, so we need to address it globally. and if you want to do that, you have to develop fiscal instruments. we have taxes on small things, like motor vehicles. unfortunately, we are not in a position to develop uniform tax rates in europe. that is why i have no illusions that we will develop an international carbon tax. that is why the second best solution at this point is emissions trading, and this is globally with a third country regime. this third country regulation must also be defended by the european commission and the council, which unfortunately is not here at this time, and this with teeth and claws. the international players are the united states. the obama administration has started with big, noble goals for climate legislation. but so far, no action has been taken. the united states is now playing the game of introducing climate legislation and harmonizing it internationally. this is very important. the un climate conference in copenhagen - we all know this - was a failure, it was not crowned with success. i am afraid that annex 16, which covers all the environmental measures in the icao convention, will also fail in the case of icao. i would also like to ask the commission: if there is no agreement on the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading scheme, is the commission prepared to continue negotiations at the level of the icao? is there a plan b at this point? how will the european commission and the council react to this?
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i'm afraid we're discussing a strategy that has failed. there were already, when we adopted the directive, some voices of caution asking whether we really intended to end up by including third countries in emissions trading without consultation. we have ignored the international situation to this day. we imagine that we will just have to grind our teeth together and then it will work in copenhagen, follow-up conferences and icao. it's not that simple. but we have an eu directive that needs to be implemented. i would like to know from the commission how it intends to do this. i have four specific questions to which i look forward to receiving answers. firstly, what steps does the commission intend to take if third countries or third country airlines refuse to participate in the eu ets? secondly, what measures are planned to implement the inclusion of airlines in emissions trading? thirdly, is it true that the commission is considering or planning to withdraw eu air rights from airlines or third countries which refuse to participate in eu emissions trading? fourthly, if such flight bans are imposed, what reaction does the commission expect from the third countries concerned? i would remind you that the ecj is now hearing cases from third countries which simply refuse to be involved in eu emissions trading. we should now look forward to the day of truth that lies ahead in 2012. i want to know what happens. what are we gonna do? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the icao is basically nothing more than the assembly of the governments of the world, acting with exactly the same massive differences of interest as we saw in copenhagen and - as i suspect - will see in cancún. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commissioner! thank you for your clear words. i hope you can use them in the negotiations. copenhagen was a failure and a disaster because the european union had no objectives. they were playing the official mikado, the first one to move lost. and that's how it went. we have to change that. the european union's position must therefore be clear. we remember: the ets has therefore been introduced and accepted by most airlines to avoid the kerosene tax. but we also know that the european taxpayer provides airlines with 30 billion euros a year because vat and kerosene taxes are waived. so if the airlines and the other countries don't want to be involved in the emissions trading, then we have to introduce the kerosene tax. it's gonna cost a lot more just so you know what this is about. we know that air transport is very dangerous, and that the emissions in the air are three to four times as dangerous as those on the ground. nevertheless, it is strongly supported by the european taxpayer. there are no railway fares, only over siberia. why aren't they here? the railroad has to pay for it. the fares, the compensation in the passenger rights in the case of rail you get the money or part of the money back after an hour, in the case of air transport only after three hours. and we have not forgotten that in the case of emissions trading, 85% of the allowances are given to the airlines. the train doesn't give anything away, she has to buy it 100% these unfair conditions must be changed, or we can bury our climate targets. and no one wants to.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i've been listening to you. the summary of your speech all easy. no problem in the council. i confess you were there, i wasn't. you were there for the discussion, i wasn't. nevertheless, i had a somewhat different perception of the european council from the one you have presented here. i think what we have seen is - in at least two cases - the rebuke of heads of government against european reality. the four freedoms guaranteed since maastricht are the free movement of services, capital, goods and persons in the european union. i have the impression that at least the free movement of persons must be given the same status in the european union as the free movement of capital. i sometimes wish that capital could be treated with the same intensity as the free movement of persons in europe. (applause from the centre) what we are seeing is - and you have hinted at this, but not explicitly - that in this post-lisbon process in which we are now, the institutions are fighting for their positions of power. and what we are seeing in the council is the new institution that you represent. the european council of heads of state or government has only existed as an institution since lisbon. this new institution is trying to secure its position of power. this is not something dishonest, as every other institution does, but there is a great danger associated with what is happening in the european council: namely, that in the post-lisbon process the competences transferred to the eu, the competences provided for in the treaty for the community institutions, should be made subject to approval by the european council - as i described in my last speech here as a kind of directorial government. and that's exactly the wrong way! we cannot on the one hand propagate what you have done, that we need, for example, in international politics, in international diplomacy, in international trade, uniform european statements, uniform european action, uniform european attitude, and at the same time say: but only if it suits my national interests! if it does not suit me in the national sphere, if it is not appropriate in domestic policy, then we do not want it. but that is exactly what is happening in the european union at the moment. and this is not specifically about a government, by the way. the epp has the most governments; the social democrats also form governments. governments all react the same. this is not an ideological issue, but an institutional one. and this institutional danger is putting europe as a whole in danger. the task of the european parliament is to say, broadly - and this is why it is an appeal to all the political groups - broadly: we want what mr daul has called the community method, which is nothing other than the implementation and enforcement of community powers to solve problems, to be done at european level. can anyone here imagine that we can still solve any monetary policy problem at the national level? i'm not going to. can any climate policy challenge be solved at the national level? i'm not going to. can any trade problem in world trade policy be tackled by a single member state alone? of course we can discuss china as the eu as the eu of 500 million people and the power of 27 combined economies. that's one way to do it. we can also break down the scale: the federal republic of germany alone, france alone, latvia alone, cyprus alone, malta alone, that is also possible. i don't think the chinese will be very impressed by your appearance there, mr van rompuy. but then we need the community method, and i believe it is the task of this parliament to enforce that community method. the commission has shown for the first time that it is prepared to fight in the form of mr barroso's statements on the roma question. we will have to solve the roma problem again and again. and this parliament will solve it in the way we have all said here: the dignity of the human being is inviolable. this also applies to complicated minorities. that is why we will not relax our attitude to the roma question. but the next challenge comes from a different place, the financial perspective. i can tell you this in advance: the strategy of renationalization will meet with widespread opposition from the whole of the european parliament. (applause from the centre) the speaker agrees to answer a question in the interim (article 149 (8) of the ecsc treaty).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. every state of law has the duty to ensure that the law is enforced within its jurisdiction. i therefore agree with those who say that if there are problems in individual cases with individual citizens - no matter what country they come from - in a member state of the eu, then it is the duty of the member state and its authorities to deal with these problems, and if there are criminal problems, to prosecute them. the same applies to the enforcement of community law in the european union. member states of the union are also obliged to accept and, where appropriate, enforce the law of the european union. that is precisely what we are asking for in the specific case of the roma. that's all i got! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not mr president, i am now hearing the report on the last summit - which we cannot call a summit because it is a council meeting - for the third time. the public record also makes me think that you and i live in different galaxies. what i expect when european union heads of state and foreign ministers gather in brussels in times of continued crisis is something different from what you have delivered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, mr president-in-office, you should reflect on your role as the one who is leading the task force on ways out of the economic and financial crisis and on more economic governance in europe. i am glad to hear that the commission is not playing along with this game of shifting power and influence to the member states, but that proposals will be coming from the commission later this month on what a common economic government in brussels can look like. i have the impression that, among other things, your almost obsessive focus on punitive mechanisms, which would not be possible at all without a treaty change, has actually only led to the situation we have today between member states: we agree on disagreement but you have no record of progress towards the goal of more common governance. i would ask you not to pretend all the time, because that is extremely harmful to the conduct of european politics in times of crisis. your role gives you a special responsibility for shaping european politics. i have the impression that, although this is a difficult role-play in which you are caught by the treaty of lisbon and its vagueness, you are not living up to this claim to make a sincere effort towards more common policies. to the roma: i do not agree that there was a one-sided apology from mrs reding. i still expect the french to explain why it is possible to present open lies to the commission today. i can't understand why that's not worth an apology. (applause from the centre) i am glad - and this is the best result of this summit for me - that mr barroso has supported mrs reding. this infringement procedure must be initiated. it can also be introduced comprehensively. to take up this idea which mrs reding has actually advanced: it is troubling me that in times of great uncertainty, economic crisis, financial crisis and uncertain prospects, of growing poverty in the european union, heads of state such as nicolas sarkozy or silvio berlusconi - i could name others, but they are the leading political actors in the european union in this matter - hide behind their domestic political problems and their inability to make policy in the crisis a policy which is again linked to this repertoire of xenophobia and fear of foreigners. i think that we should look back at the last century here in europe. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this was a working meeting of the european council, which also dealt with foreign policy. at almost the same time, china and many developing countries voted against the promotion of your person, mr van rompuy, and also against the promotion of lady ashton, in the general assembly of the united nations. this should be a topic at the summit with the chinese on 6 october, and we must speak clearly about it. but it shows very clearly that the european union still has a long way to go before it can achieve political power. we are an economic powerhouse today, and that is why the citizens expect us to make a contribution in this field, to solve the economic crisis. which brings me to the task force. mr van rompuy, you said there was a broad consensus. at the end of the month, we're going to test that consensus. the commission will present its documents on 29 september. you just said you're going to present a draft on the 27th. i hope that's consistent. by the way, i recommend you speak dutch more often. i found your commitment to the community method very attractive. on macroeconomic surveillance: there is consensus in the task force great! the commission's proposal is to monitor national fiscal policies in the european semester. with the sanctions, you say more work is needed. we all know what that means: there is no unity. so, the test is at the end of the month. why do we as a parliament insist so much on the community method? mr schulz has just pointed out that we are still in the process of eliminating the lisbon mobile. but the crucial point is this: the european council is now an institution of the european union. we don't know what that means for his self-image. it often seems to us to be an assembly of member states representing national interests only. a national interest very clear: that of the united kingdom is to have as little regulation as possible in the financial sector. the community method offers the only chance of advancing the european interest over individual national interests. that is why this house insists on the application of the community method. i am glad that you agree with me, following your dutch comments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. president van rompuy, i admire your optimism in presenting your interim report to the task force. we shall see what concrete results there are afterwards. but as regards the assessment of the economic situation, you - like commission president barroso - were a little hasty in saying that the economy had recovered massively. unless the united states is in this boat, we will not have solved the economic crisis. it is certainly good that you are seeing progress, and we all hope that it will be made. but if it had been for mrs lagarde - and the discussions have continued to this day - who claimed that germany had improved its competitiveness at the expense of the other eu countries, we would not have had this economic growth! without the locomotive, there would be no post-crisis economic growth. whoever slows the engine will never make the train reach its destination. they have not commented on the excessive debt and the solution to this debt problem. it's part of the job. it will not be enough to introduce the european semester - it is right and good that it is enforced, but without greater automation - and this is to be found in the commission, not in the council of finance ministers - we will not be able to enforce the measures of the stability pact that are being discussed. it is important to regain confidence, but this will only succeed if - as other colleagues have said - the community method is practised here with the involvement of parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr hughes, i have to ask you a question. we've worked together before, and i appreciate your work immensely. but in analysing the economic crisis and the measures to be taken now, you are profoundly wrong, as are many of your group. wouldn't you agree that it was excessive debt - that is, too much spending in pursuit of so-called policy objectives - that triggered the current crisis? would you not agree that this is why it is right to rely on stability and sound fiscal policies now to get out of this crisis?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. today is truly the day when another stone is being laid for the building of europe. it is a good day, and it punishes all those lies that say that after the financial crisis nothing will happen. and he also punishes all those liars who believe that we are entering a phase of renationalization. europe is suffering the consequences. but it must be said clearly: there are of course also things in this financial market legislation which must now go on. parliament has achieved and passed important things. it has already been pointed out. it has succeeded because the various forces in this house have worked together and have thus resisted the attempts of some member states not to learn from the crisis. some important questions remain unanswered, such as the question: how many staff will these authorities have? what good is the new powers to these authorities if they are not provided with sufficient staff and budget? we've heard signals that are not clear yet. we will have to work together to achieve this. the next question is, what happens to the chairman of these financial regulators? we will also have to ensure that the right staff is selected. for us as greens, an important step was that we want to finally get transparency on the corresponding accounting regulations of the large transnational companies. the commission has now thankfully announced that there will be a communication on country-by-country reporting. we look forward to it. we look forward to working together in this context. finally, there is a joint declaration by the four coordinators in the committee on economic and monetary affairs that we want to put market infrastructures and also central counterparties under direct european supervision. there will be more to this debate. i hope that we will have the same degree of coherence in the house on the question of economic governance as we have had on the question of supervision. otherwise parliament will have a say in these matters. we must not allow the debate to be re-ideologised. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking the colleagues who have been involved in rather tough and lengthy negotiations over the past year. it is a great achievement of the reporters and the shadow reporters that they have achieved what has been achieved. it's the best we could do. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on the one hand, we do not think that the powers granted to the supervisory authorities are sufficient. we would have welcomed it if it had been a wider competence. we also consider it a mistake that the supervisory authorities have been divided into several locations. we had been working to ensure that they were brought together in one place as much as possible. this would certainly have made cooperation easier and more efficient. sven giegold has just indicated that the human resources could and should be improved in the long term. these are our main criticisms. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. but that is our view too. there are still many more steps to be taken to achieve a really effective re-regulation of the financial markets, to get to a point where european regulations can prevent a future crisis like the one we have now. our group will be very much involved in this. there are still some bills being introduced. we're hoping to add some substance to that. then it could indeed become an effective and good thing. but there are still a few steps to take.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that today is a good day, not only for the european institutions, but for the people of europe, because two years after the collapse of lehman bank, we have succeeded in creating a structure which, while it will not eliminate every problem that can arise in the financial markets, will contribute to making the excesses that have arisen in the financial markets no longer possible in the european union. and we can be proud of each other for that. i would like to thank the belgian presidency in particular because we have already had the feeling - i can agree with what mrs goulard said - that the council has had a very easy start. the council initially adopted a unanimous decision, but it did not solve the problems. it is the european parliament's task to work out a solution that is truly viable, across all political groups, and which will ensure that we have stable supervisory structures and, even in crisis situations, a toolbox to eliminate excesses and thus contribute to the stabilisation of the financial sector. i would like to thank you very much for your personal commitment to this, mr reynders. but i would also like to thank the commission very much for having ensured that, in a fair dialogue, the two positions between the council and parliament, which were initially very different, could be brought together. thank you very much. that gives hope for further legislation.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that the negotiated compromise reached today is a milestone in the further development of pan-european financial supervision. the council presidency's constructive negotiations and the cooperation of the member states, which had previously drawn red and even dark red lines, made this joint success possible. we have not created toothless tigers, but agencies that can bite at the crucial moment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the european institutions will also be responsible for the decisions taken in emergency situations. that means more responsibility. it is also of particular importance to me that the european systemic risk board is chaired by the president of the ecb. i agree with my colleague rapporteur on the points of substance already mentioned and i thank him for the good inter-group teamwork.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is an error in the dutch version of the resolution on the gallo report. i am listed as a co-signer of the resolution by the s&d, greens and gue as a gue member. i would like to make one point: firstly, i am not a member of the gue, nor a leftist, nor a communist. secondly, i remain a member of the alde group, the liberal group, and i will vote in favour of the alde resolution, as will many members of other groups in this house. and thirdly, the gue is asked to vote in favour of the alde resolution as well. (cheers and applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to compliment the european parliament and especially the rapporteur, mr böge, who is increasingly establishing himself as the guardian of a stable budgetary policy in the european union. the following points are important to me: firstly, the european budget is still debt-free and should remain so. secondly, the financial perspective, i.e. the seven-year financial commitment, gives member states greater planning certainty. thirdly, we and the member states will have to get used to the fact that the financial margin will be narrowed. fourthly, i believe that in future the principle must be that when the member states delegate additional tasks to the european union, the member states must also meet the financial needs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. biocides are mainly used in hygiene and cleaning, but they are also found in furniture and fabrics. biocides protect against bacteria, vermin, insects, storage pests, mice and rats. in the future, biocides will have to meet eu-wide minimum standards. i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mrs klaß, for stating that the regulation should be practical for consumers and producers alike. this means that the effort required is reasonable, the conditions are fair and the costs of registration are reasonable. if we really succeed in this, then we will have harmonized the european market a little bit again in the interests of the economy, but also in the interests of our consumers in particular.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, mr josé manuel garcia-margallo, which is an essential part of the financial supervision package. our crystal clear demands two years after the start of the global financial crisis are characteristic of an ambitious project. the future european banking authority (eba) will bring together the supervisory authorities of the national financial service providers. this is a prerequisite for managing the tightly interwoven financial markets. binding technical standards need to be developed to create a uniform european regulatory framework. the aim is to prevent distortions of competition in the financial markets and to put an end to excessive speculation. the transactions on the financial markets must be made more transparent. this includes controls on risky products such as derivatives and short selling. for the sake of consumers and smes, it is unacceptable for operators to largely escape the scrutiny of financial market surveillance. we parliamentarians have made good use of the political weight we have since the lisbon treaty of 1 december 2009. we have shown solidarity across the political groups and have reached solutions which demonstrate the european added value. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the west. it is time for a banking supervision that can act and prevent - as commissioner barnier said - a crisis from turning into a disaster.
in writing. - i voted against the gallo report because i cannot support measures whose consequences could even remotely mean the closure of the network or the loss of net neutrality. furthermore, the report does not differentiate between commercial and non-commercial filesharers, thus criminalizing private internet users. a definition of the word 'piracy' that could have counteracted such a premature criminalization was also not included in the report. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. i can 't carry a report like that .
in writing. - i did not vote for this resolution because i believe that we are now experiencing an inflation of 'strategies' for the danube, the baltic, the black sea and the mediterranean, against climate change and so on, so that we need a strategy for strategies soon, so that we can still keep an overview. the promotion of remote areas has even been incorporated into the lisbon treaty, and thus has its own legal basis, as well as being a particular focus of cohesion policy, supported by many initiatives of the commission and by decisions of the council and parliament. what we need are clear decisions at european level to continue cohesion and regional policy beyond 2013. the commission will also take account of the promotion of mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas. but we do not need a flood of motions for resolutions on individual questions which only water down the real objective and for which there is no reason at present.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in the democratic republic of congo remains a matter of concern. the most alarming thing is that violence and violence-prone behaviour continue to increase despite the presence of the european union and the united nations. we've been involved in the congo for years through various missions. so we also bear a certain degree of co-responsibility, especially for acts committed or tolerated by groups that we formally support. there is a congolese proverb that says: a cat can go to a monastery, but it remains a cat. translated to the security apparatus, this means that criminals can be uniformed, but that does not mean that they will not commit crimes. that's exactly our problem. we must make it clear to the congolese government that we will not tolerate this behaviour and the cover-up of such behaviour. there is a consensus in this house on the worsening situation in the congo. i point out that we had an election observation mission there in 2006. since then, there has been no progress in the democratization process of the country. the council and the commission should think carefully about whether or not we are going to send a full mission there again and accompany this electoral process differently this time. i believe that the conditions for a full election observation mission are anything but favorable. this would also be the wrong signal to a government which systematically ignores the guidelines and recommendations of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can only join in the criticism and condemnation of these brutal massacres and also the criticism of the un mission for failing to do everything to prevent these massacres. it is nevertheless welcome that the newly created post of un special rapporteur on sexualised violence in war, held by ms wallström, has already articulated this responsibility, and it remains to be hoped that the crimes will be concretely investigated. i would remind you that we had an exhibition in parliament this february by medica mondiale, which runs a network of mobile gynaecological clinics in eastern congo, and we had a woman from eastern congo who had experienced a lot of hardship, but who still found the strength to organize the women there. she has subsequently made it clear to us that the eu embassy is also going to eastern congo, that it is working with ngos and women in witness protection programmes, that there is a criminal prosecution here, and that they are in desperate need of support in terms of income projects, medical assistance and assistance for trauma victims. and she also demanded that the eu help build prisons, because when people are arrested, they cannot be detained.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there are very good reasons for the administration and the congress to step back and rescind the so-called travel promotion act. first of all it is a bit bizarre – and the commission has pointed to this as well – to introduce a tax to promote tourism. if it becomes more expensive to travel to the united states, you will probably get fewer people who are going to travel to that country; for a family of four we are talking about usd 40 – that is real money for many people. also, it seems a bit absurd that the united states, of all countries, should tax people who are not represented in the debate. taxation without representation has, i believe, played a certain role in american history, so i believe they should look at this again. secondly, will america become more attractive by making people pay more? i do not think so. the united states are an attractive destination; there are household names like yosemite, the grand canyon, the everglades, chesapeake bay, boston, new york, washington, and san francisco. people are coming anyway, they do not need to promote tourism in the way they are suggesting. now, beyond those points, there are several serious issues, political issues, which we believe need to be addressed as well. i believe it is completely unacceptable that to pay the cost you can only use credit or debit cards of companies which are registered in the united states of america. i do not believe that is acceptable. furthermore, saving and verifying these data in the united states might be okay if this was limited to the specific purpose of controlling travel, but the department of homeland security is authorised to give these data on demand to other american authorities, to foreign authorities, and even to businesses that deal with transportation. from the point of view of data protection privacy, this is simply unacceptable as well. the commission and the council have to find appropriate answers now. i believe that the upcoming eu-us summit should address this issue. i believe that reciprocity is good, although regrettable in this case, and i believe that both sides should work to increase people-to-people contacts and not make them more difficult.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we are debating today a general fee of usd 14 for everyone entering the united states. first of all, it seems a bit contradictory to have, on the one hand, a visa waiver programme to facilitate the travel of persons between the european union and the united states and, on the other hand, to have an obligation for all european citizens to transfer their personal data through esta and to pay an additional fee when travelling. of course we have to respect the decisions of our american partners, and especially the congress, but this does not look like a sign of trust and cooperation. when it comes to the protection of borders and efficient security measures, the eu side has shown time and again that it is willing to make things work, sometimes with big difficulties in respect to our own values and citizens. what about the right to free movement when it comes to border controls? what about the right to the presumption of innocence when it comes to security measures? and what about data protection and redress rights when it comes to the collection of personal information? if it were only about paying usd 14, it would not be such a problem, but the us department of homeland security does not only get the esta data collected from travellers, namely numerous contact and identification details, including sensitive information, they also want access to the passenger name records (pnr) in the travel agencies’ reservation systems, which almost includes information about who is sleeping with whom! it is more than unsatisfactory that commissioner malmström has not yet got the point that this use of pnr data collection seriously interferes with the rights of citizens and cannot be justified under eu law. it gets even more problematic when we recognise that the usd 14 fee has to be paid with one of the four major credit cards, whose companies are all based inside the us. i ask myself how you will ensure that those huge data collections will not be the subject of investigations not related to travel operations, at least throughout the duration of the patriot act? and i ask you, commission and council, whether you are aware of the fact that existing eu law is already undermined by the way we accept us regulation imposed on european citizens? the commission and council, and you also dear colleagues, have an obligation to protect the rights of eu citizens and european law. this is also true for transatlantic relations with the us.
mr president, commissioner, dear presidency of the council! let me just make a few additional remarks. i am the chairman of the us delegation and we have always had long discussions to get rid of visas, we have had discussions to get rid of visas for romania and bulgaria and other countries. instead, a new kind of visa is being invented, where we are kind enough to provide the data of our citizens in an incredibly intensive way to the americans, and for that we are now also paying fees. these fees are then used to promote the american tourist industry. i think it is a unique business model that the americans are putting in place here, which is to make the consumer pay for advertising directly as well. i will also propose this as a business model to the tourist offices in my home region. i think this is an incredible way of doing things. this is of course also because we still do not have enough relations between the european parliament and the congress to avoid such things in a reasonable dialogue. it is also true that the council and the commission may not be taking bold steps on these issues, and i believe - and i would like to join other colleagues in this - that sometimes even the mere mention of reciprocity can help. crying here that you don't like it and that you've made a lot of demarches, it weakens our position because then no one takes us seriously. it's like you jumped off a tiger and landed on a bedpan. and that is why i ask the council and the commission, and also the high commissioner/vice-president of the commission, to approach the matter in such a way that washington also realizes that this european union is an existing power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we will then go to the reception for the deepening of relations between the european union and the united states. the fact that this is happening today has a special significance. we all have the opportunity to tell the ambassador what we have all just stressed here in the house. one should personally seize the opportunity to do so. the united states of america are not making our work very easy at the moment, and they are not making our friendship very easy either. i have the impression that in some matters the elephant is in the china shop rather than on the elegant political stage. the 14 euros alone are certainly not decisive. but if a family with three children wants to visit the united states of america, this is a considerable amount and ultimately a hindrance. if you have to go further and then specify on the internet the airline you are travelling with, the destination, the hotel you are staying at and the credit card number, it leaves many people wondering why all this is necessary. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the situation in the community, which is a very important one, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is taking a very serious view of the situation in the community. i must also say, with regard to our close transatlantic relations, that we have a close relationship with the united states. but this should also be reflected in the way we are treated. i would ask you, commissioner, to make it quite clear that you want to guarantee visa-free travel to the member states which do not currently have it, and that if there is no response, then please introduce reciprocity. for there is no 'eye for eye,' but we must deal on an equal footing, and we must not let ourselves be treated as masters treat their servants. we're not the servants, but we're on the same page.
president of the council. - as i said, the european security and defence policy has undergone a remarkable evolution and has become one of the most dynamic elements of european integration. almost ten years after the foundation of the european security and defence policy, which is an integral part of the common foreign and security policy, the european union is now a recognised and sought-after player on the international scene. the union's many missions around the world are the best proof of this. at the initiative of the council and the member states, the european union has deployed 24 esdp missions on three continents, of a military, civilian and civil-military nature. the union is thus present in afghanistan, georgia, the middle east, iraq, somalia and the western balkans. there is no doubt that these missions also help to increase the visibility of the european union in this field. the general framework for these missions is also described in the treaty of lisbon, which also defines the general framework for the common security and defence policy. as for the eurocorps, i would first like to point out - and mr posselt himself has indicated this in his question - that the eurocorps is not part of the european union. it is a multinational ground staff of operational level. it was born in 1992 on the basis of the idea of chancellor kohl and french president mitterrand. deployed in bosnia, kosovo and afghanistan, eurocorps has actively contributed to developing the interoperability of the armed forces of the participating states and a shared culture of security and defence. some eu member states, namely belgium, france, germany, luxembourg and spain, are members and eurocorps has recently been opened to participation by member states, both nato and the european union. the belgian presidency has made a major effort to implement the lisbon treaty and in this context the presidency welcomes the agreement between parliament and the council on the european external action service which will be a major asset for the effective implementation of the common security and defence policy. i can assure you that the belgian presidency will continue its efforts to reach agreement with parliament on the amendments to the two regulations directly related to the european external action service, on staff and on the financial framework, and more specifically on the belgian presidency's initiatives in the field of esdp. i would first like to refer you to its programme, the programme of the belgian presidency, which says that the union must have military and civilian capabilities to meet its ambitions: structured and permanent cooperation, the european architecture for planning and command of crisis operations, the capacity for rapid and coherent response, including for rescue operations, civil and military cooperation, the training of civilian and military actors in crisis management, the strengthening of the european defence agency and the strategic relationship between the union and nato are all important issues requiring particular efforts. belgium devotes many initiatives to esdp during its presidency and has organised, to this end, many seminars on capacity issues of permanent structured cooperation in training. all these issues will be at the heart of the debates of the european defence ministers tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in belgium.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first, a short remark: your answer was very good, mr president-in-office. i was merely protesting your cynical remark about the presence. the people who asked the questions are here, and it's your job to answer them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a debate in germany about the restructuring of the bundeswehr and so on. this would be a moment for a european initiative, for which belgium, as a very european country, would be particularly suited as the country holding the presidency of the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you are an excellent president of this house, but i would like to protest against those who are planning our work here. we have known since last week that there is little on the agenda today. why not be flexible and give us better speaking times? i would also like to hear mr brok, mr van nistelrooij, mr surján and others for five or ten minutes so that they can make a substantial contribution. that would be reasonable. so, i'm really asking you. there are many colleagues who would have liked to speak today if we had acted more rationally and flexibly.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is a classic case of regional policy and foreign policy coming together. here it is necessary to show the necessary flexibility to implement regional policy also with the experience of regional policy we make within the european union , but at the same time to link this with foreign policy ideas. this is not an act of aggression against someone and a question of zones where we want to have dominance, but it is a classic area where you can build a strategy by recognizing that border regions have always been zones of conflict, including within the european union. if we can overcome border regions in a way that reduces minority conflicts, reduces social and economic disparities and therefore makes transitions more fluid, this will mean enormous stabilization in the wider sense of foreign policy. if this also means that the european union as a whole will have a narrower relationship with these countries, then that seems to me to be important. i believe that we must build on some of the things we have to do, commissioner, namely to integrate the neighbourhood policy more into a strategic concept and not to let it get bogged down in technical details, and i have the impression that this is what you intend to do with your work. i would therefore like to invite you to look at this in a wider context as a strategic concept and perhaps to pay attention to it in your own house. you can have our cooperation. that administrative flexibility that you need to have for this can be applied because what applies to country 1 does not have to apply to country 2, and if you have russia, you may have to have a flexible solution here too, this cannot happen by the lawn mower method is difficult for any administration. but you can count on us to do that. and when you come with your discussion, which is scheduled for the end of the year, we are happy to bring our findings to bear in a hearing or whatever, that we develop a common strategic approach for the union for the benefit of citizens on both sides of the border.
i thank you, mr president, for your generosity. it has been said that borders are wounds inflicted by history. but still, limits are necessary. everything has its limits, and of course the european union must have its limits too. i was a champion of enlargement and i still am. the south-east of europe must be integrated into the european union as quickly as possible. but then it's gonna end. and we need to make the boundaries that are necessary as bearable and as constructive as possible. borders don't have to be sharp, borders don't have to tear people apart, but borders can also connect if they are graded and designed sensibly. this is the task of the neighbourhood policy, as i understand it, both in the mediterranean and towards the east. but i am very happy that since the prague summit - which was a success of the czech presidency of the council, which was otherwise very turbulent - a distinction is being made between mediterranean policy and the eastern neighbourhood. this is an old demand which we have always made here in parliament and which i have always made personally. we believe that this is a step in the right direction, because different things must be treated differently. the three different forms of cooperation with russia, preferential cooperation with our eastern neighbours and specific cooperation in the mediterranean should therefore be treated as separate instruments with the same objective. and if the question arises as to whose hands they belong to, they belong to the commission and parliament, the real community institutions, and not least to commissioner füle, who, in my view, does an excellent job of it.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we certainly agree that ukraine, because of its size and importance, is the most important of our countries in the area of neighbourhood policy, and i am really shocked when i look at how the domestic political situation there has developed in recent months - this is a rollback, a re-sovietisation at a pace that is breathtaking. in any case, last week when mr yanukovych was in brussels, i did not find the public statements reflecting the great concern we should be expressing about developments there. it is about municipal election laws being manipulated in such a way that political plurality is no longer guaranteed. parties that register under the new law will not be allowed. the secret service is taking on old, ugly roles. i am very concerned and i believe that the verbal statements towards europe coming from the present government there are really just words and do not correspond to reality. what are you going to do to make sure that we have a clear message for ukraine? (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, this is not the first time i have addressed you, but for the first time i have received many questions which actually go beyond the framework of the original question. i welcome that and hope that i will be able to explain. coming back to the original questions with which we started our discussions, i absolutely agree with those who consider cross-border cooperation to be a way of melting down borders as much as possible, particularly when we are talking people-to-people contacts. the time of the walls belongs to the past and the cross-border cooperation programmes make a significant contribution to that fact. let me start with the timing of various steps. i already mentioned in my statement that the commission is now in the process of undertaking a mid-term review of cbc; that will be ready in december 2010. as regards the enpi regulation, that was reviewed in its mid-term review in 2009. all the financial allocations will, then, be clarified by the end of this year and we will table legislative proposals on the so-called enpi ii by the end of next year, though that is already looking into the future, beyond 2013. on the issue related to this – and this is where we are, concerning the funds and russia – i can say that everything is on time, taking into account the difficulties i have mentioned. everything is on time concerning the eu funds. there are some small delays in adding the russian money due to some technical issues on their side, but that should be clarified soon. mr brok is absolutely right concerning how eu regional policy and territorial cooperation on eu external borders should be combined; i could not have put it better myself. our instruments aim at making this cooperation as easy as possible, bringing together regions in the eu member states and in our partner countries. here i strongly believe that our discussion today should not be seen in isolation but as, hopefully, creating a momentum for closer interaction with many of you. i have heard from many representatives with wide experience in this area, so i shall be ready to use all the communications channels we have at our disposal – while also being creative to add some other informal channels – so as to make as much use as possible of that experience, because it is important that we pass the reality check on this particular issue of cbc. however, it is important that we also pass a reality check on neighbourhood policy, and i welcome the fact that a number of you raised this issue. you know that in conjunction with the high representative and vice-president of the commission, cathy ashton, we have indeed initiated a review process of our neighbourhood policy. the last neighbourhood package, which we presented in the spring, assessed not just last year’s achievements but the achievements of all five years. with cathy ashton, we thought this to be an excellent basis from which to consider a number of questions: is our policy right? are we going in the right directions? do our partners feel they have ownership of this policy? have we got our instruments right? do we have the necessary resources? and including the questions: are we still talking about neighbourhood policy in terms of instruments and defining the goal of neighbourhood policy as ensuring peace, stability and prosperity on the borders of the european union? should we not also be starting, at least, to discuss the questions: is there an end game for this policy? is there a goal we could define? is there something which would make it more attractive for our partners to work and cooperate with us? these are the questions we have started to address with the member states, with our partner countries, think-tanks and civil society organisations, but also, of course, with you. we are now working with the chair of the committee on foreign affairs to find suitable dates and times. once again, on this particular issue i am looking to be creative about informal contacts with you, because this is a very important issue and i hope very much that by presenting a new neighbourhood package in the spring of next year we will be ready to share with our partners and the rest of the world the results of this review policy. the review policy will not focus solely on the three pillars as we know them today: political association, economic integration and the mobility issue. we will also focus most definitely on how our values are to be reflected in this new policy, on how we can make our argument about human rights and fundamental freedoms stronger – not only in certain parts of our neighbourhood but across the board. in addition, we have some concrete issues to discuss with countries such as ukraine and tunisia, and with some others. but this is engagement, which will bring us to the negotiating table, and it is our assistance and our insistence on these roles which will help those countries reach a suitable level. turning to a specific question on russia and ukraine from the honourable member mr belder, i just would like to add that i hope very much that our cooperation with partners, and specifically with ukraine, will not be based on competition with any third country and that there will not be a zero-sum game approach but a win-win situation improving the situation in the region as a whole. i am sure that i have not been able to address all your questions but i will look at them in the course of the cbc policy review, and i will also find a way to answer them in writing because i feel they are important and that we should address them again in the framework of this review process. let me give one more specific answer, concerning the idea of moving these programmes from dg relex to dg regio. i do not think that this will solve the challenges i mentioned at the beginning. on the contrary, it would mean the foreign policy issue – which does exist – would be ignored, and i am sure that we have a lot of will within the current framework to find a way of making the programmes work better. so now, let me thank you very much for the discussion on this particular issue. thank you very much for a number of good ideas which we will also tackle with you when we go through this neighbourhood policy review process.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the commission statement on the import into the eu of goods produced in chinese re-education camps (laogai).
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members of parliament, the issue raised in this question is indeed one that concerns fundamental human rights, which are core values of the european union and which are also central to the union’s external action. i can assure you of the commission’s fundamental attachment to human rights, as well as to the core conventions of the international labour organisation, including the one on forced labour. at the same time, you are also aware of how delicate an issue this is in our relations with china. the commission fully agrees with the european parliament that the laogai system is completely incompatible with universally-accepted concepts of human rights, as well as china’s ambitions to become a modern and developed society. the maintenance of this system is also wholly incompatible with china’s stated commitment to ratify the international covenant on civil and political rights, which it signed twelve years ago. the european union is indeed faced with the problem that goods produced in laogai, under those very conditions which we condemned, may well be imported into the european union. however, it is extremely difficult to accurately establish whether – and which – goods imported from china into the european union have been produced in laogai. in response to previous queries by the european parliament – as well as civil society organisations – the european union has consistently raised the matter with china in recent years, particularly in the context of the bi-annual human rights dialogue. in this context, the european union has underlined that the laogai system violates several articles of the international covenant on civil and political rights, and in particular article 8, which prohibits forced or compulsory labour, and article 9, which states that no one should be imprisoned without a proper trial. to date, the european union has preferred to use an approach of positive engagement with china, rather than making use of an import ban. however, we have to acknowledge that there are limits to this approach which, so far, has not produced any notable change in chinese policy as regards laogai. we also have to recognise that china is not the only country where the issue of prison labour is a matter of concern. the commission is therefore open to revisiting the question of the most effective way to apply pressure on countries that make use of prison labour, in violation of fundamental human rights principles and of the conventions of the international labour organisation. however, this will have to be done in a horizontal way and should not be limited to china only. we would welcome parliament’s further views on this issue and will keep you informed on further developments.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not it is good that we are having this debate in the same plenary week as the forthcoming eu-china summit. the laogai issue has a commercial and a human rights dimension. i am concentrating on the human rights aspects here. in china's laogai prisons, forced labour is carried out under the cynical slogan 'reform through work'. in this vast network of forced labour camps, basic human rights are violated. the situation is intolerable and unacceptable to china's european partners. they are contrary to the universal human rights to which the people's republic of china committed itself at the latest when it acceded to the international covenant on civil and political rights 12 years ago. the european parliament has already condemned the laogai system on previous occasions. but we must recognize that laogai prisons are also named after commercial enterprises, like normal businesses, and thus obscure the true nature of their products produced by forced labour. the us then enforces the legal ban on the import of prison products and keeps its market closed to these so-called 'companies'. we don't have that ban yet. commissioner, you said it was difficult to determine where the products came from. the names of these establishments, which are in fact prisons, are known. the united states has already had experience of practical ways of keeping these products out of the market. the question is: are you prepared to take a look at these lists of companies and to share with the united states the practical experience of how to achieve something in this way? will the european union demand that china allow the un special rapporteur on torture to visit prisons of his choice as soon as possible, especially in xinjiang and tibet?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that behind the laogai there is an intolerable system of chinese labour camps. the very existence of these camps is unbearable, but to think that many products produced there can be found in our shops is simply disgusting. these labor camps are not only used to punish prisoners, but also benefit the chinese government economically. this is unbearable, too. and who is to say that the delegation of the european union, which will be in china in 14 days' time, will not be fed, in case of doubt, with products from these labour camps? i'd lose my appetite. i am disappointed in your statement, mr füle. instead of finally focusing on this issue and presenting solutions to us, you announced that the commission would first look at which other countries produce products in critical prisons and bring them to our markets. take care of a problem properly for once! solve this problem, and then we can deal with the others. we should not be taking a broad line but should really finally be fighting this issue effectively. i call on the commission and the council to ensure that the products from these warehouses are no longer available for purchase in any european store. we do not want such products in europe. our friends in the us - it's been raised several times - have found a way to ban these products from their stores. i call on the commission to ensure that these bloodstained products do not come to us again. i wish for a good partnership with china, but these camps and other issues will always be a thorn in the flesh of our relationship.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you have pointed out that human rights are core values of the european union. we proudly adopted the lisbon treaty last december and the charter of human rights as a legally binding annex to it. it is absolutely right and important what you have said: we must defend these human rights everywhere and we must also orient our economic action accordingly. now you have indicated that this is difficult. it has been said, however, that the products from laogai in particular have a list of the warehouses. i have a book here, it's all in there. it says which prison manufactures which products under which brand names. so you can research it. that is why, for example, the laogai research foundation, both internationally and in europe - where president peter müller is also in the chamber today - has written to commissioner de gucht asking him to allow the un special envoy to visit camps of his choice and, on the other hand, to examine whether, like the usa, which is more courageous than we are, customs preferences for such products cannot be suspended temporarily. i would ask you to state how far this examination has progressed, which the commission has promised us. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. putting people in labor camps for thinking differently than a ruling regime is a crime against human dignity. forced labour camps, re-education camps, internment camps - all these are anachronisms that have lost nothing in the 21st century, no matter where in the world. i am very disappointed that the european commission, in the case of china, has not, contrary to what is well known, presented us here in the european parliament with any concrete steps and has not explained how it envisages further cooperation between the eu and china. if the us has lists of companies, if there are books published in which the companies are used as aliases for internment camps, why don't you have them? or why do you close your eyes to it? you and the commission are complicit in the suffering of those who have been detained, for the most part, without due process of law. no one can want that. the rule of law is one of our fundamental principles in europe, in the european union. i am almost ashamed as a member of the european parliament that we had to hear that today. but i am glad, on the other hand, that we have demonstrated here, across all party lines, this principle of the rule of law for freedom and for human dignity. i would also like to thank all my colleagues for this.
the commission has already done so. the colleagues have stated that it is an urgent human rights issue that the import of these products into the european union be stopped. i also think that under such inhuman conditions the question arises whether a dumping price is not being made here too. an anti-dumping proceeding should be considered in this respect. in addition, we as the eu should make it very clear that, regardless of the trade issue, such conditions in labour camps are unacceptable. it is not just about the products, but of course about improving the conditions of the people who are being held here and who are not subject to the rule of law. we should make this very clear to the people's republic of china.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, china’s economic development is unparalleled in modern economic history, and it is playing an increasingly important role on the world scene. this role also entails responsibilities, such as respect for fundamental rights and core labour rights. it is crucial for the chinese leadership to live up to these challenges. even in these challenging times, china and europe are natural partners. a policy of engagement and dialogue with china is the best way to move forward to resolve these issues, notably in the context of our human rights dialogue or the eu-china high-level economic and trade dialogue. this being said, we must also stand up for our values and principles, including with regard to prison labour in the laogai. in the light of this, the commission – as i mentioned in my introduction – is open to considering an effective way of preventing imports of goods made using prison labour and will further pursue this in close dialogue with the european parliament. my colleague, commissioner karel de gucht, made extensive reference to human rights in china in this house last tuesday. i can reassure this house that human rights, including the european union’s wish to see the laogai abolished, will be raised at the eu-china summit on 6 october. unlike the united states, the eu does not have a horizontal instrument in place banning the import of goods produced using prison labour. the commission is ready to study the effectiveness of the united states law in preventing such imports, given the difficulty in identifying them. i will not miss the opportunity to inform my four colleagues the work of whose respective dgs is related to this issue that, according to this house, the time has come to establish an inter-dg taskforce to look into this matter more deeply.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 11.55 a.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the annual resolution against the death penalty is a very impressive example of how much the eu is doing and has done in the fight against the worldwide abolition of the death penalty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we should not forget that the global fight against the death penalty is a success story. there are now only 43 states that still have the death penalty. the eu is one of the most important active players at international level in promoting this struggle and in involving it in all bilateral relations, and we must not let up in our efforts. we may have to think about taking a more targeted approach, because not every state or government has the same structure, and we have to use different strategies. it will be different in japan, where high-ranking politicians campaign and use the death penalty as often as possible. it is a different strategy than in iran or belarus. we may have to take it one step at a time. we must, for example, restrict the number of people and demand that no more minors be executed, that the death penalty not be used for the mentally handicapped, or that we limit the number of crimes. in china, for example, you can still be executed for a simple property crime. these can be steps towards the real goal of abolishing the death penalty altogether. the eu should refine this a bit. what we must not do, even if we take different approaches to the different countries, is that we must not measure differently and make different commitments to the countries that still have the death penalty. this year's resolution against the death penalty has a special focus on the united states. i would like to present an example of a case, namely that of mumia abu-jamal, who has been on death row for more than 20 years. he's not rich, he's african-american, and he was a politically radical journalist at the time of the crime. there are legitimate doubts and shortcomings in the judicial process. i ask the eu to do everything and use all means to ensure that the death penalty is not carried out and that he is given a fair trial!
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the gulf of mexico has been the scene of one of the worst environmental disasters in recent years, and we in europe, in the european union, must do everything we can to prevent such a disaster from happening here. i think there is a consensus. we have four seas bordering or in the eu: the north sea, the baltic sea, the mediterranean sea and the black sea. and in these european waters, oil is being drilled. in this respect, it is also a problem for the european union. deep-sea drilling in particular is a particular risk. we saw this at the oil well in the gulf of mexico. there are problems that are out of control. and there's a whole series of open questions that have been raised that still have no answers. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we agreed with you in our resolution that it would be appropriate to at least declare a moratorium on new applications for deep-sea drilling until we have a complete picture of what is needed and how the shortcomings and gaps can be closed. i believe that the citizens of europe also expect us to ensure that security is of the same standard in all 27 member states, in all four seas of the eu, and that we do not have a tendency to go from countries that already do a lot - this is also acknowledged - to perhaps areas where the issue is treated somewhat more negligently. i'm also addressing the neighbourhood. we have a neighbourhood policy and, above all, there are of course drilling operations in the mediterranean by countries which are not members of the european union. i think that you are taking initiatives, mr oettinger, and you must take initiatives to talk about our standards and our ideas, particularly with libya, but also with others. the question is: would the eu be prepared for such a disaster? what's the control mechanism, what's the response mechanism, should we have a disaster like this? that too must be answered. we have here the agency in lisbon, the european maritime safety agency, which has emerged from a disaster of crashing large tankers. so the agency is looking at the safety of ships, but not the safety of the seas, which is what we've seen now with the deep-sea drilling. we think it would be a good idea if the mandate of emsa in lisbon was extended and it could also deal with these things. that would at least be problematic and adequate. i can imagine that new resources will be needed. that's always a problem. but if we're going to tackle a big issue like this, then the resources have to be created. i want to address the liability for such major events. what's the insurance like? what is the possibility of raising the necessary funds? we must also have an overview of the liability and insurance laws for deep-sea oil drilling, which is what we are talking about. and above all, of course, as is the case with the smaller companies that operate there. it's not just the multinationals, there are a lot of small businesses. how can they handle that? how can they insure themselves? do we need a solidarity fund? are collective solutions needed to ensure that the money reaches the victims, the fishermen and others who are affected by such disasters? we also want to know whether the environmental impact directive, the environmental impact assessment we are calling for on land, also applies to deep-sea drilling and what is there. and there's a lot of unknowns on the high seas. what are the working conditions and social standards? the human factor can also play a major role. you have good technology, but when the human factor fails, you can have disasters like this. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. offshore oil has its problems, offshore wind would be better. and i believe that this debate will of course also open the way to a different energy policy in the eu, for which you are also responsible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this was a major disaster, and disasters can be dealt with in different ways. by falling into frantic actionism and adopting a new declaration every week, or by examining thoroughly and then thinking about where you need to make changes. for example, starting from the baseline, one can see that the situation in this situation in the united states is not comparable to that in europe. the last option was taken by commissioner oettinger, soberly, objectively, and step by step. that is the way to make policy and that is the way to win the support of the citizens. and i am grateful to the commissioner for doing so, firstly in this way and secondly with the participation of all the committees. the committee on the environment and the committee on industry were involved in the plenary together, were involved in the discussions with the commissioner together, where we were able to go into some of the issues in greater depth. and then, unfortunately, the committee on the environment - i have to say, mrs tzavela has already raised this - thought that it should be the only one to table a resolution. i think that is not acceptable at all, and it is not in the interests of cooperation in parliament, and it is not in the interests of the proper handling of this problem, just to present a quick paper somewhere quickly. we are told - and everyone knew this - that the commission will be presenting a communication next week, or the week after that, drawing the conclusions of its analyses. the council is quite right in saying that we can then think carefully about the consequences of our actions. the environment committee felt that it should now come forward with a decision quickly, and now we have a resolution which i think is rushed, has errors, and which completely ignores a number of facts in research and technology - as mrs tzavela has just pointed out - which are not taken into account. but that does not matter, as long as something is presented that has been operated from only one point of view. this is not acceptable at all. and, moreover, to take the consequence of declaring a moratorium is a successful contribution to the advancement of europe as an industrial centre. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i'm grateful to be here to talk about this. at least you were allowed to talk here. the resolution was not adopted by the committee.
president of the council. - mr president, i thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on behalf of mrs onkelinx, the deputy prime minister, on the whole range of new perspectives offered by the lisbon treaty in the social field. i sincerely believe that we must take advantage of the social advances in european law. article 9 of the treaty, for example, provides for a cross-cutting social protection clause which obliges the european institutions to take into account requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion and a high level of education, training and protection of human health. this requirement follows the treaty's provision in article 3 (3) that the construction of the internal market is to be achieved by policies based on a highly competitive social market economy aimed at full employment and social progress. article 9 therefore calls for the social dimension to be taken into account in the definition of all european policies. this is a fair rebalancing of what needs to be done. this is a priority cross-cutting objective of the belgian presidency. in future, we will therefore have to pay much more attention to the social impact of policies developed at european level. if economic growth is to be maximised within the european union, the fruits of that growth must be shared equitably and fairly everywhere, with particular attention to the plight of the most vulnerable. this consideration of the social dimension must also be a feature of the europe 2020 strategy, which, as you know, was adopted by the european union at the european council last june. this strategy, which aims at employment and growth, integrates the economic, social, employment and environmental dimensions. it is based on a limited number of quantified objectives and guidelines. of the five objectives selected, one is specifically devoted to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. it sets a target of reducing poverty by at least 20 million people at eu level by 2020. together with guideline 10, it constitutes the social pillar of the strategy. it is regrettable that the ambition is too low, but it nevertheless reflects the desire to achieve a concrete and clearly identifiable objective, which is new in this field and introduces a new dynamic which we must take advantage of. member states will have to report annually, in their nrp national reform plan , on the progress of the implementation of this objective. my idea has always been to take full advantage of this social dimension of the european union 2020. i want to make the belgian presidency a social presidency par excellence. in this context, the europe 2020 strategy offers an opportunity for visibility: social policy at european level. this will be a real challenge, as member states are both busy defining their reform plans, and thus their policies to achieve the quantified targets, and at the same time working on their national budgets which limit their financial margins. the financial crisis is not far away and the economic recovery is slow to take hold. in this context, we must ensure that fiscal consolidation does not have a negative effect on employment and social policies. the eu 2020 growth strategy must be sustainable and inclusive. it cannot be expressed in growth without employment and it can only be expressed in a desire to combat precariousness. the fight against poverty must therefore be a major concern. at council level, the belgian presidency is working hard to make this dynamic a reality, but it is also attentive to the role that the commission must play in this context. we really urge the commission to be dynamic in this area. i am referring to the flagship initiatives that it must adopt, in particular its flagship: the platform for combating poverty and social exclusion, which must give a broader perspective to the social challenges facing europe. the commission must, among other things, propose to us how to implement in practice the new horizontal social clause contained in article 9 of the lisbon treaty. as you can see, the ambition of the belgian presidency is high, but i sincerely believe that it is up to the needs and demands of our fellow citizens. without a social dimension, the european project is doomed to failure. here too, you have a role to play by continuing the debate on this strategy, not only at european level but also by highlighting the social dimension in your respective countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, the horizontal social clause laid down in article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states: ‘in defining and implementing its policies and activities, the union shall take into account’, inter alia, ‘requirements linked to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection’ and ‘the fight against social exclusion’. the commission is committed to implementing this clause, including through strengthening the assessment of social impact, as part of its overall impact assessment system. in relation to the specific situation of social services of general interest (ssgi), the commission believes that it is important to ensure legal certainty for public authorities in the member states. however, the commission does not consider it necessary, at this stage, to set up a multi-stakeholder taskforce to tackle the difficulties some providers of ssgi are experiencing with the interpretation of the single market rules. the commission is aware that a significant number of public authorities and stakeholders consider the eu rules applicable to social services as an obstacle to the organisation and financing of such services. however, consultations of public authorities and stakeholders show that the existing rules, to a large extent, take account of the specificities of social services of general interest. the problems reported are very often due to a lack of awareness of, and information about, the rules, or to doubts about the way such rules are to be implemented. for this reason, the commission has put a strategy in place, including the interactive information service, the frequently asked questions documents and the training initiative for local public authorities. the commission is in the process of updating the frequently asked questions documents. once finalised, the commission will present them to the member states and the stakeholders within the social protection committee. another discussion forum with the member states is the advisory committee on public procurement. a public consultation on the sgei package – services of general economic interest – which aims to clarify and simplify the application of state aid rules to those services has just ended. the commission will share its assessment of the contributions received with parliament, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee and the member states. as the commission has stated on numerous occasions, the specificities of social services will be duly taken into account in the revision of the package. in addition, the commission has had a fruitful dialogue with the main stakeholders over the last few years on possible adaptations to the existing eu rules – in particular, within the social protection committee and parliament’s intergroup on public services. in july the commission participated in a seminar organised by the belgian presidency with the member states and various stakeholders. once again, these discussions have shown that, while there is a strong and legitimate interest in fine-tuning, there was no real need to change the fundamental structure of existing eu rules in order to adapt them to the specificities of ssgi. this being so, the commission is aware that the belgian presidency has put forward some suggestions with a view to clarifying and adjusting the existing rules. the commission is carefully considering these suggestions. i also recall that the third forum on social services of general interest, to be organised on 26 and 27 october under the auspices of the belgian presidency, will provide an opportunity to discuss these suggestions and possibly others as well. lastly, the commission is working within the social protection committee, on a voluntary quality framework for social services. the commission has worked very closely with the main stakeholders, social partners, local authorities, service providers and users, in drawing up such a framework. in summary, the commission is committed to implementing the new horizontal social clause, including the relation to ssgi. as i have explained, there are numerous fora for discussion and dialogue with the ssgi stakeholders. the commission, therefore, does not see the need to establish an extra taskforce. however, the commission is committed to tackling the difficulties faced by some providers of ssgi with the interpretation of the single market rules, including under the forthcoming single market act, to be adopted by the commission before the end of october.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the lisbon treaty did not give the european union any fundamentally new powers in the field of social policy. article 9 - as the council representative pointed out - complements the existing powers in the sense of the fundamental principle of the social market economy, which is very important to the epp group and which we have incorporated into the european convention, which in fact prepared the treaty of lisbon in the main. secondly, the european commission has made an interesting and valuable contribution to the way in which the great positive impulses of the internal market can be combined with the social elements of the common consumer market, with the report by former commissioner mario monti entitled 'putting citizens at the heart of the union'. and that is why, commissioner andor, we are looking forward with great anticipation to the so-called single market act which commissioner barnier is currently drawing up. we believe that this is indeed a constructive approach to the monti-croes package. we are, however, sceptical as to whether the opening up of the public procurement directives and the creation of a concession directive will really end up putting the european single market in the right direction, because it is clear that we are clearly opposed to an inflation of the public sector. this is all the more important and the council representative has pointed out that as great and important as the social consolidation may be, it is equally important, and i say this as a representative of the younger generation in this parliament, that we all shadow budgets professor bernd raffelhüschen from freiburg speaks of the fact that we have a number of hidden budgets in terms of the pension and pension burden to be included in the consideration of social consolidation and to make a policy that also offers the young generation a fair chance for the next decades. i therefore believe that we are faced with a great task together - and the council representative has also pointed this out. i would like to say that the european parliament and the epp group are facing this challenge together and that we should do everything we can to support the european commission's efforts to complete this package of measures for the internal market and, on the other hand, the social measures which must complete this internal market in the context of the social market economy. and so i look forward to the debate and thank you for your attention.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to say that the lisbon treaty and its social provisions read quite well. but we must not overlook the fact that hundreds of thousands of people have taken to the streets in brussels and other european cities. they protested against a failed, anti-social crisis policy. as soon as the worst crisis has passed, many governments are saying: the national debt must be reduced. the bailout programmes are to be closed, investment programmes abolished. the commission calls for the stability and growth pact to be strengthened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and has recently adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities against fraud by means of the publication of information in the official journal of the european communities. the banksters are doing the same thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. social insurance contributions increase with fewer benefits. since the european court of justice's viking, laval and rueffert judgments, it is not only trade unions that fear that the social balance in the eu has been upset. the demand of the trade union for a social protection clause deserves full support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this must be clearly stated in the primary law. i mention these facts because the paragraphs read well by themselves, but in reality they do not change anything. human dignity cannot be guaranteed without minimum social standards. a social progress clause would help to restore the european union's much-decreed standing among the population and reduce social fears.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. thank you, tanja fajon, for the very good report which has really brought us forward. the united left in the european parliament is clearly in favour of visa liberalisation for the whole of the western balkans, and in this case we are of course also in favour of visa-free travel for bosnia-herzegovina and albania, because this is the real beginning of the opening up of these countries and because it also creates better opportunities for their overall development. and we hope that these opportunities will be taken advantage of. i personally hope that such arrangements will be made very soon - at least in initial talks - with kosovo. this is urgently needed, otherwise kosovo will remain a small island in the western balkans, effectively cut off. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. i want to be very clear: biometric data is still controversial, and it's not safe. because a few days ago, a report came in from germany that the pin codes could be cracked and were cracked. and that such possibilities exist, one must take note. we must do everything possible to ensure that these countries not only enjoy visa-free travel but also, and above all, that they develop socially and economically. this is urgently needed in both countries, and the people deserve it. we should also be doing this here in the eu!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me make one thing clear first: the basle committee is a group of more or less clever central bankers and supervisors, but it is certainly not the infallible council of the wise, and it is certainly not the law! the legislator is sitting here, commissioner, you know this, and we know that you know this, and this legislator will be watching what is on the table and whether it makes sense what is on the table. of course we want tougher capital rules. what else after this crisis we are still in? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. of course, the people outside expect us to make decent banking rules so that we don't get ourselves into another crisis like this. of course we want to see countercyclical elements in this banking security, as has been the case for years in spain, where it was also necessary to enforce it against resistance, but where it is paying off today because it was implemented at an early stage and has not made the banking system worse but more robust. but there are key issues, and i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur, mr karas, for putting these key issues at the centre of his own-initiative report, which we can fully support. firstly, yes, we need an impact study, a complex impact study, which will make clear what the effects are on the financial sector in all its parts, but of course in particular on the real economy, on the question of what is actually going to happen with the credit financing conditions of small and mediumsized enterprises. secondly, we need to ensure that the agreements are implemented in other territories this time, unlike in the past. we want to know this before we legislate, otherwise there will be a new asymmetry which we cannot account for. and thirdly, there must be no discrimination between legal forms. those who have proved themselves particularly effective in the complexity of the european banking system during the crisis - and these are the banks that have paid attention to smes, these are the banks that have had their eye on retail banking and have not created the crossborder risks - must not be punished for the solidity of their structure. that is not sufficiently guaranteed in the proposal we have. we therefore believe that it needs to be improved and that we need to think about how we can tackle this in a practical way. public banking as a whole is of high value if it is run sensibly. we must also ask ourselves how this is to be handled in the future if we buy in the relevant regulations as envisaged in basle. this cannot be the last word, nor is it the last point on how we will accept it. the capital instruments must be measured by their consistent and unmistakable quality assurance, loss absorbing availability, durability and payment flexibility, as required by the rapporteur in his report. that is a reasonable basic position from which to proceed. we want to limit leverage and to take appropriate account of the different risk profiles. we shall therefore examine your proposal, commissioner, and we hope to cooperate with parliament as best we can.
the commission has already done so. as banks have to reserve more capital for loans and for financial instruments, their capacity to bear losses increases. the recent basel committee proposals build on this stability-oriented approach. unfortunately, the basel committee has not yet sufficiently addressed the problem of systemically important banks. i therefore welcome the call by mr othmar karas to make the requirements for liquidity standards dependent on this systemic relevance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial sector is able to cope with the challenges of the future. we should be more differentiated in our approach to the leverage factor. only if there is empirical evidence that this instrument does not lead to arbitrage effects and distortions of competition and that it does indeed counteract overheated lending should we consider a binding anchorage in pillar i. in any case, it is necessary that these proposals now be implemented globally. we cannot allow the american authorities to influence the basel proposals in a decisive way and then not implement them. the g20 summit in seoul next month will show whether and to what extent we can achieve this goal.
member of the commission. - madam president, it is always a great pleasure to be here with you day and night, and on behalf of my colleague and friend, joaquín almunia, who is attending the working dinner between china and the european union at this very moment. your assembly has asked the commission to discuss its policy on fines in cases of anti-competitive practices. and so i'm happy, on his behalf, to make this presentation. the commission is responsible, as you know, for combating and punishing anti-competitive practices when they harm businesses and consumers in the internal market. the main tool at our disposal is our power to impose fines on companies that participate in such agreements, that adopt restrictive business practices or that abuse their dominant position. these fines are set according to our guidelines for the calculation of fines. the current version was adopted only four years ago. we also grant reductions in fines to companies that cooperate with our investigations, for example when they bring to our attention the existence of a cartel, and to companies that agree to enter into a transaction with the commission. this saves a lot of time and resources for all parties. in any event, companies cannot be required to pay more than 10% of their total annual turnover, which is a ceiling for the level of fines that can be imposed. so, ladies and gentlemen, fines are our main tool. it is desirable not to exclude the introduction of sanctions for individuals, including administrative sanctions, in the future. several member states do allow such sanctions. we want to look carefully at the legal and political implications of such a development. should a formal legal framework be proposed? article 23 of council regulation no 1/2003 is the legal basis for fines imposed by the commission and not the guidelines for the calculation of fines. article 23 sets out the basic principles, including the ceiling on turnover, which i have just mentioned, while the guidelines specify how they are to be applied. it is a relatively common practice in many european legal systems to have a range of possible penalties laid down by law and administrative guidelines on how to calculate the final penalty. this is the case in germany, the united kingdom and the netherlands for the application of competition rules. on the basis of this situation, we see no reason to propose new legislation on fines imposed by the european union in competition cases. secondly, is there a need to revise the guidelines before we come to the amount of fines imposed? i would like to give an idea of the cost of the agreements to the european economy. we estimate that the damage caused by the 18 cartels dismantled between 2005 and 2007 amounted to almost eight billion euros. studies have also shown that cartels have the effect of raising prices by 10 to 30%, and it is difficult to resist this temptation without vigorous enforcement of competition law, and that is our job. our fines are set at a level that punishes prior illegal behavior in an equitable manner. they are high but they reflect the damage caused and the illicit profits made by the members of the cartel. our fines must also be an effective deterrent to companies from engaging in such anti-competitive practices in the future. that is why we see no reason, i repeat, to change the 2006 guidelines for the calculation of fines. the third and final question is whether fines should be reduced during the crisis. i should like to point out that we are very closely monitoring the financial situation of companies which sometimes claim to be unable to pay and that we have reduced our fines significantly for many of them. for example, in very recent decisions concerning sanitary products for bathrooms, or pre-stressed steel, we have applied reductions ranging from 25 to 75 per cent. it is not in our interest, ladies and gentlemen, to exclude companies from the market. actually, it's the opposite. competition rules are often applied to allow new firms to enter the market and to carry on their activities normally and fairly.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. first of all, i should like to thank the commission for the flexibility it has already shown. commissioner barnier pointed out that in certain sectors, in the construction sector, given the fact that there have been significant downturns in the economy, there has been considerable movement in the setting of penalties and the granting of rebates, but not in the possibility of installments. i think this is an appropriate response on the part of the commission in view of the particular economic situation in which many companies find themselves. but apart from this welcome flexibility on the part of the commission, the fundamental question must of course be asked whether the system of penalties as we have it at the moment is still in conformity with the principles of the rule of law. i dare say that there is some doubt about that. the 2003 regulation 1 naturally gives the commission such a broad framework of provisions for determining the criteria, without any specific criteria being laid down in the act itself, that it is almost conceivable that the decisions underlying it are not necessarily based on legislation, but may well include certain arbitrary elements. unfortunately, the european court of first instance has so far followed this practice and this method of assessment and has not made any criticism here. i can imagine that the situation has changed, we are about to accede to the convention on human rights, the charter of fundamental rights has now become binding under the lisbon treaty, and that the case law may also change in this context. i therefore think that it is worth considering this, and i welcome the fact that the commission is also thinking of changing the provisions of regulation no 1 of 2003 in this direction, with regard to criteria and other types of sanctions, to make them more specific and to set criteria more precisely also with regard to the penalties to be imposed. i personally believe that this is necessary to eliminate the deficiencies in the rule of law which are currently being observed by many experts in europe.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank parliament for putting this issue so prominently on the agenda at a time when brussels is currently hosting the last day of the open days, with over 6 000 stakeholders in the city, engaging in over 130 events and seminars on the importance and future of regional policy. it has been raised several times: regional and cohesion policy must continue to be closely linked to the eu 2020 strategy in the next financial period, so that the european added value we are always talking about and which must be redeemed is actually created. it is important in this context that we better coordinate the union's policies in order to really offer a common, integrated approach also towards the member states. the key word must be focus and flexibility. focusing on a few key priorities from the eu 2020 strategy and flexibility in tailor-made solutions in implementation in the regions and member states. i think it is also important that we develop a system of incentives based on clear target agreements with the regions and the member states, so that, in addition to the financial soundness of management, which has been very important in the past and will continue to be so in the future, the component of results orientation actually becomes more prominent, because it is absolutely essential that we agree with the regions, with the member states, at the very beginning of a period, what our objectives are, and that we also agree and set measurable objectives and try to ensure that these objectives are also implemented accordingly through the projects. finally, what a good cohesion policy with its various elements can and should achieve is to be the driver of growth in the european union. we have a pact for growth and stability. it is a well-designed cohesion policy for all regions which can ultimately ensure that the growth aspect is incorporated in the growth and stability pact, so that europe, and its economies as a whole, can remain globally competitive and improve their position in the international context. this will require adapting and developing the support framework accordingly, i.e. an increase in both the product side and the financial volume in the field of financial engineering, in the knowledge that - against the background of the tight budgetary situation in the member states - we must also develop more offers for private investors to invest in certain regional projects, especially those which also guarantee a revenue, so that we have other funds available for projects which are also necessary but do not guarantee a revenue, such as investments in the education sector, in the modernisation of universities, laboratories, etc. we shall be presenting together in the coming weeks the fifth cohesion report with conclusions which will express much and more of what i have been able to say in a few minutes. but regional policy, cohesion policy, is the kind of policy which, even in the light of shared management, is capable of making european policy visible and tangible to the citizens. the two million projects, as in the current period, can only be realised if we work with the member states, if we work with the citizens in the regions.
member of the commission. − mr president, the economic and social situation in europe continues to pose enormous challenges. unemployment has risen sharply, with the rate expected to reach 11% at the end of this year. furthermore, poverty continues to be a daily reality for many europeans including children. whilst it is true that we are slowly emerging from the economic crisis, it is equally clear that our recovery needs to be based on solid foundations, and at this time we cannot be entirely sure about these foundations. at the same time we must not lose sight of the long-term challenges. issues such as the ageing population, rapidly changing technologies, climate change and other environmental challenges all need to be addressed with urgency. the european social fund has been the main instrument at eu level for investment in human capital and social inclusion. for over half a century it has been a concrete proof of solidarity between european citizens and it should continue to be so in the future. the esf is one of the key tools at our disposal in reaching the europe 2020 headline targets, particularly those on employment, education and poverty reduction. we need full alignment between the esf and europe 2020 as it will be a major instrument for implementing the integrated guidelines. our new europe 2020 strategy sets out common objectives for the entire union. however, member states will choose their own individual paths to follow in order to reach these objectives with the support of the esf. for this to happen, the future scope of the esf should be broad enough to ensure that all member states, regions and local stakeholders can design operational programmes that address their particular needs. nevertheless, a broad scope should not lead to a fragmentation of the instruments. the commission and member states should work together to establish core priorities, particularly on employment. we should work towards improving the visibility, effectiveness and delivery of the social fund. the forthcoming budget review will show how the commission envisages the future architecture of the union’s budget in order to achieve the political objectives agreed in europe 2020. in addition, it will launch the debate between member states and the european parliament. i look forward to the contribution of this house to that debate. the esf should contribute to territorial as well as social and economic cohesion alongside other eu funds. this should be facilitated by establishing some common rules for all funds to make coordination between them easier. the commission has already made a proposal for a new financial regulation laying down some common rules and we will put forward some specific proposals in the course of 2011. european citizens expect to see eu-level funds focused on results and achievements. we need to put in place systems to monitor the performance of the actions supported by the esf and we need to think about moving to more results-based delivery systems. access to the funds should be simpler and also more user-friendly. the discussions on the future of the esf are at a decisive stage now. the messages we have received from you are very clear and will make an important contribution to the work that lies ahead. the commission will present its proposal for the new esf together with the other structural funds by mid-2011. we have a clear mandate to support the europe 2020 strategy, namely by using the esf as its financial lever to help translate our policy objectives into reality on the ground.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. cohesion policy means that we in the european union want to support the weaker regions. this is an expression of great european solidarity. but solidarity is never a one-way street, and that is why my group supports the principle that all regions in the european union must be able to participate in this cohesion policy. we also believe that we do not support any renationalisation and that we do not want cohesion policy to be fragmented into sectoral policies. we do not need an extra transport fund or an extra climate fund or an extra energy efficiency fund, but we need to look at how we can reconcile our challenges with a good cohesion policy. we therefore need a strong objective 1 area, as well as a strong objective 2 area and transitional rules. and one thing is true: the regions need our european support. but the european union also needs strong regions, and so this is a give and take in both directions. of course we need to re-evaluate our priorities, of course we need more efficiency. that is why my group fully supports the proposal to be able to coordinate, for example, the development of rural areas much better than in the past under the umbrella of cohesion policy. and of course, we also stand for the fact that we want to improve infrastructure, that we want to support businesses, that we want to support sustainable economic growth. but sustainable economic development is also possible only if we involve the workers, if we involve the people. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. and this, in turn, is only possible in conjunction with the european social fund under the umbrella of cohesion policy. we are in favour of this, but with our own rules, which have existed in the past. we must really try to improve this and to increase the social part of cohesion policy considerably. my group will be committed in future negotiations and discussions to improving and simplifying the applicability of the funds. we need to simplify the application procedures so that, firstly, not so many mistakes are made and, secondly, access for people who really want to work can be made easier with this european cohesion policy. we will work to ensure that we actually implement the principle of enhanced partnership in the negotiations this time. i think that parliament's role has been strengthened since the treaty of lisbon. my group will be committed to this partnership principle.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i think it is good and right that we should be working towards a coordinated cohesion and regional policy. this is extremely important in order to use the efficiency and the limited funds well. but i also warn you that this efficiency is gained by trying to bring everyone together with the same rules. the funds are very different, have very different target groups and also very different content. in this respect, coordination is very important, but not the same rules. this is exactly what we are experiencing at the moment with the european social fund, which would be extremely popular if - as my predecessor has just said - these small local institutions, especially the small communities, the municipalities, did not have to make this enormous effort to actually call up and use these funds. but that is exactly what we need, because unemployment, poverty and people who are not fully integrated into society exist in all eu member states, not just in individual regions - in all member states! it is therefore particularly important to me that the european social fund itself should continue to be available to minorities, to some extent to young people, and to the elderly, often to people with a migrant background, and that it should be available even more to enable these people to enter the labour market. because that's exactly the point we're trying to make. we are working through strategy 2020 to increase the inclusion of diverse groups in the labour market. i hope that this will not only remain an objective, but that we will now have to provide the measures and the instruments to achieve it. the european social fund is a very effective instrument in this respect, but we must optimize it and, above all, make it useful.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very pleased about this debate. because it's the first attempt to compromise in a very big project that will occupy us for the next few years. and the most important thing about these compromise decisions of the european parliament is the independent cohesion policy and a clear commitment to it. it will contribute to the europe 2020 strategy, but it has its own value, because cohesion policy is what holds the eu together at its core. no region in the european union is left behind. social cohesion also means that no one is left behind by the poorest of the poor in the european union, but that everyone is given a chance. but prosperity is not just economic growth. we have seen in the past that in many regions we have an increase in gdp, but at the same time an increase in social disparities. and that is why i think it is very important that this resolution should give the impetus to the development of other important criteria besides gdp, which clarify what prosperity means and what needs to be done in a region. we greens are very proud of the fact that we have managed to get this fixed in the resolution, albeit cautiously. we propose that the criterion be a criterion by which it is also assessed whether it is possible to support a region or not. because that would be a very different picture. the resolution is therefore clearly committed to a gdp beyond, and we hope that the commission will take up this impulse. another commission study, the commission study regions 2020 shows that climate change is having a chilling negative impact on regional development. that's why we have to stop him. this study shows that a third of the people in the european union would have to leave their homes if we don't stop climate change, because they can't find work or they can't live in their homes. and this shows that we have three dimensions in the development of the regions, which we must all recognise equally in the future reform of the structural funds and also take into account in the support. the economic, social and territorial cohesion is of central importance. and this means that ecological issues and ecological criteria are also a key element for the prosperity of regions. let me say a few words about what has been discussed here for a long time, namely the wording of the esf in the common package. i think that the oral amendment is a good wording which leaves us with a lot of openness, and i therefore ask you to support it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to draw attention to a fundamental conflict which is already clearly emerging with regard to the european social fund. the lisbon treaty suggests that the esf should focus primarily on active labour market policy. we in the group of the european left believe that the esf must be extended to cover general social policy in the future, that it must be made available to it and that it must be used much more intensively to combat poverty and social exclusion. the european social fund should continue to operate throughout the european union and not be concentrated on specific regions. we believe, however, that the specific problems of regions should be given greater consideration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european social fund should remain at least as large as it is at present. it should be concentrated on at least 1% of the gross budget of the european union. we believe that this is urgently needed. i would like to address one more problem: the more result-oriented approach envisaged naturally also raises the question for the esf as to which indicators and criteria should be used to calculate such a result and what this means for the project promoters in the final analysis. because these institutions do not have reserves to make repayments or to make repayments. if the esf is to exist, if it is to be effective, we need clarity and overview in advance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. parliament today demonstrates a great deal of unity across the political groups. we want a strong cohesion policy and structural policy in all the regions of europe. it is not a question of a net contributor or a poor member state, structural policy is and remains the strongest expression of european solidarity. we are helping the poorest regions to connect, but we are also helping stronger regions to become more competitive. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. to achieve these goals, we need clear and fair rules. this means that the poorer regions must remain a priority of cohesion policy. the lower the gross domestic product of a region, the more we have to help. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. gdp guarantees that social power, education and employment opportunities are also fully taken into account, because when regions are poor, they cannot provide all this adequately and are also more likely to lose out in environmental protection. the gnp must therefore remain the reliable indicator in regional policy. we must rely on our local authorities and the länder in regional policy. we want to implement the 2020 strategy with the tried and tested principle of joint programming, joint management and regional co-financing. the demands for independent eu funds for employment, climate change or energy must therefore not be allowed to become reality. if we replace regional policy with a stronger sectoral policy, only new eu agencies will win. but our regions and federal states would only be pawns in regional policy, in cohesion policy. i am very pleased that the european parliament is taking a clear position on this matter in favour of the regions. this has to do with the acceptance of the european idea. we cannot dictate this acceptance, it must also grow in regional policy from below.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we're not talking about peanut butter! for 2007-13, the european social fund has €75 billion at its disposal, almost 8% of the eu budget. as the esf funds only flow from brussels if the member states co-finance, it is about eur 150 billion to create more and better jobs. the esf funds are not used for unnecessary studies, but are sent directly to the people concerned. this is what makes it so valuable, what makes it tangible for the longterm unemployed, for migrants, for young people who can make up for their missing school qualifications, for tens of thousands of trainees and retrainees, for employees who want to continue their education, and for potential entrepreneurs. so a wide range of audiences. what will happen after 2013? the member states must use the funds more effectively. we must take account of regional specificities. i am in favour of a tailored bottom-up approach. the best possible coordination with programmes such as daphne or progress is also needed. i am in favour of more flexibility, simpler controls and more transparent allocation of funds. i am against a separate regulatory framework for the esf and i am in favour of keeping it in the regulation on the structural funds. this ensures that the eligibility of expenditure is regulated at member state level. that is why i, together with 45 colleagues, tabled amendment no 1, which i would ask for your support in the vote to be held shortly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, you are all very well aware of the fact that the commission is not the only institution in the community. i do not need to stress the importance of cohesion and regional policy for european coexistence and growth. but i also believe that the regional and cohesion policies of the future must be more focused on cities. cities are an important motor for the development of europe. but at the same time, they are currently experiencing very particular environmental, economic and social problems. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in this area. in concrete terms, commissioner, you recently indicated at an event here in the house that you could imagine a certain percentage being set aside from regional funds, precisely to emphasize the urban dimension. are these thoughts still relevant? if so, what percentage could be used?
in writing. - i condemn in the strongest terms the mass rapes and serious human rights violations in the democratic republic of congo. i very much welcome the inclusion and adoption of this condemnation in the joint resolution. however, i voted against the joint resolution because congolese army and police units, which have been trained by eupol and eusec since 2005, have been and are largely involved in these crimes. the joint resolution expressly supports and welcomes these training missions. i am in favour of an immediate end to these missions, which have contributed negatively to the escalation of violence and the situation in the country by training security forces which have repeatedly been involved in serious human rights violations against the congolese people. in addition, the eu-trained army and police are supporting the repressive apparatus of the corrupt kabila regime.
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i, for my part, cannot wait for this service to begin its work and i wish it the international success for which it was set up. the institutions have shown that they can deal with challenges. parliament was part of the solution. we made a decision quickly, maybe too quickly. this service is a new territory terra incognita and breaks with parts of the previous foundations of budgetary and staff law. this poses great challenges for us in the long run. as a housekeeper and budget controller, i am constantly concerned about the hybrid nature of the service, not only because of its efficiency but also because of its controllability. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we have tried to achieve the best for the service, for parliament and for the taxpayer. we've cleared up procedures and assigned responsibilities. we have strengthened parliament's influence on foreign policy spending, we have increased transparency through clear reporting obligations and we have strengthened accountability. we have made it clear to eu ambassadors that they have a key role to play in protecting the community's financial interests and it would be very important for their own services to make this clear to them. we have created synergies by sharing the accounts and giving the commission's internal auditor the influence he needs to control the management of funds in order to work efficiently. the european development fund and its integration into the budget remain on the agenda, as does the discharge to the council. i would like to thank all those who made this result possible: the co-rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs who co-signed the outcome of the negotiations. and i would like to thank the negotiating partners on behalf of the belgian presidency of the council. you did a good job. what's left are important departmental homework. there is no prospect of an efficiency return from the merger. 10% is not much, and it's a long way from that when it comes to leadership. behind the hand held up, everyone's talking about the mexican army. how professional can a service be if it does not even know its job? the opportunities to define the tasks have been lost so far and it would be very important to return to this very soon. the integration of staff is of great importance. we are concerned about the preferential treatment accorded to diplomats from the member states. and when jobs are being advertised in some cases several times and the old colonial world map is being brought up again, then we have to talk very seriously about the service. we can assure the service of the critical sympathy and watchful eye of the budgetary control. i wish him the success we need for europe in the world.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. when i say 'dear colleagues', i am simply including you, mrs ashton, mr šefčovič, your colleagues and the presidency of the council, because at the end of the day it was collegial cooperation, without which we would not have achieved the result we have achieved. i'm already satisfied with the result, at least as far as the part i'm responsible for and have control over is concerned. i would like to say that this is not so surprising, since we have not just started. mr president, it was a good idea of yours to convene all the rapporteurs at regular intervals for an exchange of views, as early as the brok, verhofstad and gualtieri reports. because it made it clear to the one what would be done later, and to those who had to work later, it was clear what was already in the works. the main aim was therefore to implement the technical and organizational aspects of the agreement reached between parliament and the council on the establishment of the european external action service in the staff regulations, where the staff regulations were responsible for this. when i say technically-organizational, i mean that organization is politics, and politics is organization. we have, of course, noticed this in the negotiations in detail, because it was clear that one interpretation might look like this and the other interpretation a little different. but the spirit of cooperation has just led us to what i think is a very sensible solution. what was the political orientation, what was the staff regulations? we had to establish equal treatment for the three staff components, so let me put it this way. the treaty stipulates that the staff of the eeas shall be composed of staff from the commission, from the council and from the diplomatic services of the member states. the last one was part of the problem, it was something new. we had to resolve the almost antagonistic contradiction between the community approach and the intergovernmental approach. the fact that perhaps there was more of an intergovernmental idea on the part of the council and the member states, and more of a community idea on our part, is obvious. i think it's safe to say that we worked this out together. in that respect we can be quite satisfied. what we have had to look at and continue to look at is the balance between gender and geographical origin. we want a service that is modern, including gender equality. i am pleased, mrs ashton, that you have promised to make a personal statement once again, in addition to what we have written into the statute, which is part of the whole package. this is a very strong piece, both for the one aspect, gender equity, and the other aspect, geographical balance. we need equal rights and equal obligations, that is to say, loyalty - and loyalty of all three components - to the institution of the high commissioner, and specifically to the high commissioner at the present time. we had to work a little on the right of veto of the diplomatic services, with regard to possible contract renewals for staff coming from the diplomatic services. but we solved that, too. there is one point that cannot be underestimated. we have agreed that this point cannot be included in the staff regulations: this new european diplomatic service needs something like its own identity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this has been particularly important to some of my colleagues. i can relate to that. i just said it didn't work. it was clear that it was not possible to enshrine this systematically in the statute. but i must also thank the high commissioner again, because i have been informed that she will also be making a statement on this, that she sees this as a great obligation, a great necessity, and that she will also make a declaration of commitment once again, which is not part of the statute, but which will enable us and those who attach particular importance to it to look with confidence to the future work of the common foreign service. we have done a very good job in this respect and we can start on 1 december in a reasonable way!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to interrupt the debate for a moment and point out to you and your colleagues that three terrorists stormed the chechen parliament tonight, killed several security officials and took hostages. the terrorists were killed, too. parliament should express its condemnation of this act of terrorism in a clear and unequivocal manner, because terrorism can never be justified. our condolences go out to the families of the deceased. i wanted to make this clear, especially in view of the fact that we are going to be discussing the north caucasus this week. i apologize for the disturbance.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate everyone involved on how we have done this and where we are today. we have saved the community method and development priorities. we have enhanced democratic scrutiny, especially on cfsp lines. we have laid the ground for an inclusive service that is based on equality and an esprit de corps. thank you, mrs ashton, for mentioning the training measures in respect of gender equality and geographical balance in your proactive measures. i should like to thank everyone in this house, mrs ashton and the presidency. but have we created a modern service that is more than a 28th national diplomatic service? what is the added value of the european external action service? i think the game is still open. first of all, it will require effective coordination across policy areas. i still want to see the structures in place to achieve that. second, we have to enhance crisis management and conflict prevention. that can be an added value provided by the european union. that will depend on the implementation of the ‘appropriate structure’, and it will depend on how we use new posts and posts created through synergies across the council and the commission. along these lines, do we need more deputy ambassadors? or will it not be your role, mrs ashton, to send an sms? we are living in the 21st century. the role of former diplomats belongs in the 19th century. should we not have a debate on whether we really need these people, and what we need them for? i hope your establishment plan and your staffing priorities will reflect the priorities as promised and will make the service really deliver added value – something that not every national diplomatic service has, and can do. for us there are two priorities: conflict prevention and civilian crisis management. create a mediation cell, for example. on human rights, we want this service to be strong on human rights, with capacity at the highest level. gender equality does not end with staffing priorities. it is also about gender mainstreaming and attaching a high degree of importance to missions and mandates. in that respect, i think it would be a good idea to have an overview and review of the existing csdp missions that have been completed, to learn from the past for the future of your service, mrs ashton. i think that will bring us all forward. i wish everyone luck and i am ready to cooperate again constructively in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. frank sinatra was called the voice. but what would he be without a big band? you, mrs ashton, are now the voice of europe, and you are getting a great orchestra with the foreign service. i hope you will use this orchestra to promote the voice of europe and to defend our interests. after europe's first objective was to secure peace in europe, the next major challenge is to promote europe's interests in the world in the face of international challenges - from energy security to the fight against terrorism, globalisation and more. this is where you and this service will have a special role. so the progress we make in the interests of our citizens will depend very much on the work of you and your orchestra. in this process, parliament's participation, control and right to information have been strengthened, including in the budgetary field. we have succeeded in safeguarding the community character of the policies which are community policies and also in ensuring that more than 60% of the staff must be community officials. i am sure that we have done what the council did not do, that geographical balance and gender parity have been more widely accepted. the governments did not do this, we did their job! and if this is now legally binding and must be reviewed in 2013, then this is an excellent achievement of this house, a good compromise that we have reached between the institutions. this instrument is also to be observed by us. we will do so with the necessary flexibility, but also with the necessary pressure, so that you, mrs ashton, can do your job. we shall support you in this, but we shall also criticise you if we do not agree. i believe that we can only be united on this issue if our citizens have a future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european external action service is one of the most important decisions of the lisbon treaty. it is only six weeks away and baroness ashton will no longer be the eu's first foreign minister, but europe's foreign minister. and that's a good thing. we will start on 1 december, and we wish you the best of luck. we had many discussions, and much was achieved. it was a fruitful political dispute. the democratic deficit of the old cfsp has been eliminated, there is greater accountability, the quality of public debate will be improved. there will be strict budgetary control, the conditions for a real team spirit will be created, national diplomats will be able to remain in the european external action service if they wish. there will be no geographical quota. sometimes it seems that this is the most important issue here, but it is definitely not. germany in particular would benefit greatly from a quota, but i am against it nonetheless. a joint education will come. i believe that the conditions for a successful ead are there. in other words, the european parliament is almost happy. we would be very happy if you took the opportunity now to create the so-called, firmly promised, appropriate structure for conflict prevention and crisis management, and we would have european added value right from the start.
madam president, i want to come back to the issue of the added value that the external action service can deliver. i think one of the added values that it can, and indeed must deliver, is on policy coherence for development which mrs ashton has committed to. this priority needs to be reflected in the staff policy, and especially in training, as well as in development in general, human rights and conflict prevention. sensitivity for these matters cannot be achieved by proclamation but needs thorough commitment and thorough training. that is what we want to see from 1 december onwards.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the first, which i very deliberately wanted to make at the end of the debate, is to thank all the shadow rapporteurs. it was a good, collegial collaboration. it's just easier to negotiate when you know your colleagues are behind you. in that respect, these were not the most difficult negotiations. the second point i would like to make is that of the question of geographical balance, which has been the focus of attention. the bird was shot down by mrs. neynsky. she said there was nothing in the compromise about that. i would simply suggest that, now that we have adopted this, we should read the texts in a calm and serene manner, read the texts! reading texts is educational. and then you see that there are very strict, strict, legally binding comments on this. and then all your worries should be taken care of.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 october, at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on poverty: - statements by the council and the commission on the development policy aspects of the international day for the eradication of poverty and - report by ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the importance of the minimum income for combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in europe (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/findbyprocnum.do?lang=en&procnum=ini/2010/2039" ) (a7-0233/2010).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. today's session on poverty is a deliberate attempt to highlight the link between global poverty and poverty in the member states of the european union. but this has already been done by hundreds of thousands of people who have been increasingly calling for this in the streets of europe in recent weeks and months, and who have deliberately brought global action day closer to the un conference on the millennium development goals. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the lisbon treaty and also the europe 2020 strategy have de facto eliminated poverty targets. the demand for sustainability of public finances is the reason given by many member states of the european union for the reduction of social benefits and transfers through cuts in health care, cuts in pension systems, reduction of labour market policy instruments, reduction of unemployment benefits, reduction of child and family benefits. we do this in our own eu member states and we pretend at this event that we are only promoting the idea that people in poverty are no longer excluded. we do it ourselves through our way of politics. i would like to point out that the europe 2020 strategy and the european union's sustainability strategy are in conflict and that this is not the way to fight global poverty.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to appeal once again to the commission that when it creates a poverty platform it does not leave it to empty words but takes up the initiatives of parliament. on the one hand, there is an initiative to examine whether there should be a framework directive on a minimum income so that everyone can live with dignity in this european union. and secondly, there is an initiative to go beyond the gdp and gini coefficients as a measure of income disparity in the examination of disadvantage in preparation for the structural funds. these are things you have to decide now so that we have any chance of introducing this, and that is why i ask the commissioner to put these two items on the commission's agenda from the plenary and to ensure that the commission has a reply to the european parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 october, at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. - i am very pleased that the european parliament has decided today to support the many people who are negatively affected by globalisation. the european funds must now be made available in a non-bureaucratic and timely manner so that these people can find new jobs as quickly as possible. this is an important and visible contribution by the european union, which clearly shows people that the eu is also willing and able to help individuals in emergency situations. but we must also make a conscious effort to make globalisation work. it is therefore important that the european union should promote fair conditions of competition in international economic relations. this will help to avoid the disadvantage of individual sectors in advance.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have just heard from the rapporteur on the commission's budget what great challenges we are facing. i am speaking first as rapporteur for the budget of parliament and the other institutions, especially the smaller ones. the political conflict we have to deal with - and this applies not only to the parliament's budget but to the commission's budget as well - is as follows: the lisbon treaty gives parliament greater powers in energy policy, foreign policy and participation in agriculture. we have more say in sports policy, in space policy. so to put it bluntly: we have increased our powers, and that is a good thing, and we have always fought for this as convinced european parliamentarians. but at the same time we have a situation in the member states which forces us to adopt austerity policies and to reduce debt, and between these two major objectives we have new tasks. on the one hand, we have to show that we understand the pressure on public budgets, and on the other hand, we have to develop a policy. i have tried to do this as rapporteur for the budget of this parliament, namely to strike a fair balance between the new competences and therefore the new work requirements and the additional staff we have and the need to signal to the citizens of the european union and to the governments that we also want to exercise self-restraint and self-discipline. the bureau of parliament, as it is its duty, has made proposals on how to increase the expenditure in parliament's budget so that it can work properly. we have now taken decisions in the committee on budgets on allocations of funds, which are in the order of eur 25 million less than what the bureau had originally proposed. and that means that we want to limit ourselves in travel costs, in the allocation of funds for studies, in the resources for security here at home, for information technology, that we provide fewer items for the library. we have a conflict and it concerns the question of how much money should be given to parliamentary assistants in the near future. the proposal is to increase this amount by eur 1500 for 2011. i am not a green, and i am not a green. i think that's a little bit excessive at this point. the majority of us in the committee on budgets agreed that we need more information, and this money has been put in reserve, so it has not been released, but more political decisions have to be made whether we want to release this money now or whether we consider it a wiser policy not to provide the money for 2011. it is also very important to me - because we have a great interest in making our european institutions environmentally friendly and, as far as possible, in changing our own behaviour - that we have called for a new, more environmentally friendly behaviour in mobility. for example, there is a proposal for a ticket for public transport in brussels, which is to be negotiated further. it would be very good if we could reduce our chauffeur services considerably, but that also means that more bicycles should be made available to members and staff here in strasbourg, so that we can also move around in an environmentally friendly way in strasbourg. the second point that was particularly important to me was that we tried to strike a good balance with the majority in the committee on budgets, that we did not look only at our own interests as members of parliament and that we did not look at our budget responsibly, but that we had to look at the other small institutions: the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee, the court of auditors, the european data protection supervisor or the european ombudsman. and what we have done is to take a responsible position, not only by providing more staff and more facilities for ourselves, but also by very specifically granting the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee not everything they have asked for, but a certain increase in funding, because of course the greater need for work - due to increased competences through the lisbon treaty - has also increased. and with a small institution like the european data protection supervisor, which is very important to many of the debates we have about how to deal with data protection in the digital world - and this important institution is still in the process of being built - it is right to welcome it in the scale of two new posts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. as the author of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the budget, i am not telling anyone here anything new. i would like to point out once again: the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is responsible for less than 1% of the overall budget, less than 1% of all actions on the environment, biodiversity, the fight against climate change, the whole area of public health, food and feed safety and veterinary measures, and for the very important work of five european agencies. one percent! yes, there is no such thing as an overflowing abundance of money! so this little money is urgently needed to get our work done. it will therefore come as no surprise to anyone that we cannot accept the council's cuts. we need the funds!
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i too agree with what my predecessor said. we are responsible for the narrow area of customs, the internal market and consumer protection as the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we have made a real effort to keep a close eye on the figures and to use only what is really necessary. but even in times of crisis, money is needed for consumer protection, for customs, for training customs officials, etc. that is why we think that the old figures must be restored. we thank the committee on budgets for the good cooperation it has shown so far and hope that it will continue to do so.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs in particular. as many colleagues have already said, the equation seems to be 'more money equals better policy'. i think the other way around is that better policy justifies more money. the funds we provide must be spent efficiently. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not worth financing sacred cows such as the agricultural budget and structural and cohesion policies without at the same time reforming and modernising them. many colleagues have spoken, and i fully agree with them, that we must put the emphasis on research and development, renewable energy, energy security and educational mobility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. afp news agency quotes a french official as saying: 'there are ayatollahs in germany who have a thoroughly prussian rigor on these issues,' he said, referring to the german government's uncompromising stance. i personally doubt that the french representative of europe's savoir vivre understands that money that one does not have is spent with full hands and future generations have to pay for debts incurred today. i cannot imagine that this is what the member states want, and it is time to show that in the budgetary negotiations on discipline, which we also called for and demonstrated in may.
i have to say, madam president, i am tempted to say, on the inscription of mr vanhecke, what a small insurance contribution this is also for flemish eu citizens, because the eu guarantees peace, freedom, prosperity and hopefully also respect and tolerance for everyone in the european union. we are discussing the 2011 budget at a time of public budget consolidation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this is where the real money is. the refusal of review and revision by the commission and the council would de facto mean that we would be seeing a delayed budgetary entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in the age of globalisation, when the economic and political survival of the european union is at stake, this is not an adequate answer to questions about the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in parallel, the adjustment of the budgetary iia must also be discussed. we must agree on a procedure for discussing and deciding together on the future multiannual financial framework. we need more flexibility on the basis of paragraphs 21 and 23 of the iiv. and - excuse me, commission - if your document says that the use of the eu budget for the stability mechanism is an innovative use of the eu budget, i say that in principle it is a circumvention of parliament. we'll have to work on that, too. a final, very important note to the council: if you complain that we have abandoned iter, we want a reliable multiannual solution for iter. but don't complain about current cuts as long as the governance structures, the management structures at iter are bad. we must first settle this and then find a reasonable solution, but not spread out over three years.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 2011 budget is primarily about public opinion in the member states, and that is something that you have to leave to the council, which you have done really well. they have put forward a figure of minus 2.77%, but that is a mere blink of an eye for the national parliaments, which are not familiar with the situation. that is to say, you have cut where there was too much money at stake anyway, and then the european parliament, which is trying to reverse these cuts in good faith, is the bad guy, so to speak, and gets the black peter. this is all pretty sophisticated, but far too transparent for you to get away with it. what i miss as a budgetary controller is that the council would really be interested in a better eu budget in the long term. what about our common surveillance, what about common budgetary control? there's a misrepresentation at the council. i would like to call for this - and i am addressing this to my colleagues in particular, because tomorrow is also about the reserves - that we refine our control mechanisms. i am particularly concerned here with the administrative budget, because it is always the focus of attention in the member states. since 2007, we have been screening staff in the administrative and coordination areas. we have to continue this screening. we have again formed a reserve for this. the commission has 100 official posts for directors-general 100 since the summer. but according to her own benchmark, she's only allowed 87. a further reserve is used to call for a reduction to 87, the commission's own figure. we have called for better monitoring of the implementation of eu law in the member states, because integrity is a core element of the european union. there is a reserve for this too. we must ask ourselves: what will happen to the directorate-general for development aid, what will happen to aidco, when the foreign office is set up? there are a lot of people sitting around there, and if we are not careful, there are still as many people from the commission as from the foreign service sitting in the delegations. we have so far had an efficiency return of only 1% in the foreign service; 10% is the target. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with the exception of a few ladies and gentlemen in the eurosceptic to anti-euro sections of this house, i think we all agree that the eu is doing something useful and that doing something useful is a european added value because either the nation states would not be able to do it or the final beneficiaries would not get the money from the nation states. the latter is particularly important because member states would not invest savings but would have to use them to reduce debt, whereas the european budget is predominantly an investor. so if we are to achieve the objectives that are decided here every week, we need an ambitious budget, and that means not less money, but more in the future. and in this context it is important for me to emphasize that the national budgets and the european budget complement each other. the council and the member states are acting as if money going into the european budget had disappeared into a big black hole. no, it is invested in objectives that we have agreed on here before. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the only way to achieve this is for the council not to say yes to the treaty of lisbon and at the same time submit one or other project for financing and at the same time say: but you will not get any money to implement it. but if that does not work, we shall use the budget lines which parliament does not consider to be priority for the necessary cancellations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's own resources are not used to create additional burdens for ordinary people. as a social democrat, i am in favour of introducing a financial transaction tax, because it does not affect ordinary earners in general and contributes to the deceleration of the financial market. we are firmly convinced that those who have caused an unprecedented crisis, the cost of which we have all had to pay from the public budgets of our home countries, must be called upon to compensate for this damage.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i was the rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on budgets during this parliamentary term, and i can tell you that i cannot quite follow some of the speeches i heard earlier. of course, as members of the european parliament we also feel that we are in solidarity with the member states which have to cope with and explain the considerable budgetary setbacks. we are, of course, prepared to go through the difficult process of explaining these decisions. but if you take, for example, a budget for the new european agencies, you will find that you cannot make savings because we have to bear extra expenditure in return. the second point is european statistics: for many years the council has tried to push european statistics to the side and to circumvent them. today we see that more money in european statistics would have been a real investment. i'm not saying this to unilaterally push black peter on you. but i do believe that in the coming weeks we need a debate that goes beyond individual points and is not focused on the percentage of savings in europe, because in the end we need the objective that the people of europe also benefit from a common budgetary policy of the member states and the european union. we're waiting for your suggestions.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am grateful for the contributions made here in the house, and i am grateful once again for the willingness to compromise of my colleagues in the committee on budgets, which has enabled us to agree on a very responsible line for parliament's budget and the other institutions between the new financing needs we have received from the lisbon treaty with new powers and a targeted self-limitation. i would like to stress once again that i think it is right that we have indicated our willingness to review expenditure, but that we are of course confident in our new needs and are fighting for adequate funding. and let me add a political message, please. we are now in the run-up to a three-week consultation with the council after the vote we will have tomorrow, where we hope to reach an agreement. i believe that we - this is the first time we have this new procedure under the lisbon treaty - all of us together, except the real enemies and sceptics of europe, must make it clear again and again, despite all the criticism and also targeted criticism in particular, that the european union makes us stronger. each of us, all member states, benefit from having the european union, especially in the face of changing global challenges. it is clear to all that each individual member state would be weaker in the face of the global situation. and that has to be our common starting point, why it is right to fight for more funds in the european union and to think very carefully together about what the big funding needs are, how we can make our budget more sustainable, how it can become more social, how it can become more future-oriented. i hope that parliament will be able to agree with the council on such an approach and thus win over the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the commission for its efforts to enrich the review debate with this communication. on the other hand, i want to be frank about the fact that we had different ideas then and still have today about proposals for review based on the 2006 joint declaration. because if we follow the content of this communication, it means that there will be no review until 2014. but this means - as i said earlier - that on the basis of the new treaty, at least some of the main elements of the lisbon policy will be postponed budgetarily beyond 2014. the question is whether we can afford to do so, and whether we can be responsible for it, particularly in the context of globalisation, where the european union's ability to act is being discussed politically and economically. i have the impression that the commission of the day and mr prodi were too ambitious in their proposals and the present commission is too cautious. of course, if we then take the next step, we must first focus on better legislation to promote growth and employment, simplification, efficiency, reducing the cost of implementing programmes before asking for more money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. are we going to say yes or no? and if we say yes, are they appropriate and different from what has been done in the european budget to be financed through the entire multiannual financial planning? in view of the sometimes misleading debate at member state level, let me say something about own resources: it is absolutely legitimate, in accordance with the treaty - yes, the treaty requires it - that we should deal with own resources, because the treaty says that we must finance ourselves first and foremost from own resources, without prejudice to other revenue. this is a debate we should all be facing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the committee of the regions also had high hopes for the budget review. finally, the european structural and cohesion policy has been a success story, especially in recent years. the contribution of the cohesion funds to overcoming the crisis is considerable, especially in the poorest regions. the horizontal approach to competitiveness and employment is producing encouraging results. never have eu funds been used more efficiently, never have we brought more smes into international networks. never have regions been better prepared to take advantage of european programmes. the use and absorption of eu funds is very clear and encouraging. and in the process of progress, irregularities in the use of structural funds have been reduced considerably. unfortunately, the court of auditors, the academics and the regions informed us about these matters, but not the commission and the member states. these are remarkably reserved. there has been no real interim evaluation of the budget with regard to the structural funds. i very much regret this, because the tailwind of a budget review would have provided good arguments for continuing structural policy. of course, there is a need to adapt the content to the 2020 objectives. the funds must be used more efficiently in many areas. nevertheless, the target structures and the cooperation with the member states and the regions have proved more than successful. we have missed an opportunity to prove this by a real budgetary review. ladies and gentlemen, parliament has a good memory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and when it comes to future budgetary reviews, we will demand them to be more binding. regular budgetary reviews also contribute to transparency. we'll have to take this more seriously in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is a good document that we have here. it is balanced, as janusz lewandowski has always promised us, with a lot of ideas and ideas that we can and should work with. but it is not what we expected as budgetary experts in the committee on budgets. to be honest, we had thought that there would be an analysis of the current financial framework, and the real optimists had even thought that we might also get a small revision for the remaining period of the current financial perspective. but what we have here now has become an absolute glimpse into the future. almost every second section mentions how to do better with our budget in the near future, whether it is our priorities, such as achieving the europe 2020 goals, better cooperation with our neighbours, better european infrastructure, or our future agricultural policy, cohesion policy, even the future structure of our budget and the length of the next financial period. (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the team of shadow rapporteurs of the legal affairs committee and the committee on industry, research and energy, the staff and all those who have contributed to this excellent result. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am very pleased with the result as rapporteur, as you can imagine, because we have made substantial improvements compared with the old directive and because we have introduced new ways of improving payment ethics. the objective has been achieved, and i would rather say that the way has been set for improving the liquidity of smes and small and mediumsized enterprises and for securing investment in new products, new jobs and new processes. why was it necessary to improve this directive? the 2000 law was non-binding and inefficient. in recent years, payment behaviour has deteriorated in almost all member states, even before the financial and economic crisis. the reform was also requested by small businesses, who expressed their wishes under the small business act to make payments in europe much more efficient. the results: first, we have embarked on a new path. we have strict rules. the 30-day period applies in principle, with a few exceptions, which must be justified. we have introduced higher default interest rates, namely 8%. we have set the recovery costs at a uniform amount, quite unbureaucratically 40 euros, and we have achieved that small businesses can enforce their rights more easily than before. the second aspect of the new approach is the positive incentives and new instruments, such as the designation of good paying contractors, better information for small businesses about their rights, payment of instalments and promotion of alternative dispute settlement mechanisms. this law is also a better regulation law and will also apply to the eu institutions. and we're particularly proud of that, because -- and you can probably guess -- not everyone was thrilled about that. of course, there were some conflicts. i would like to mention a few. firstly, there were certainly great differences in the beginning of parliament, great diversity of opinion. the 100 amendments alone have proved that we had to come together there too. the commission has certainly not always been satisfied with our approaches, including the extension to business to business, but i think we have achieved a good result overall. the problem was the council. it is regrettable that the council has not always lived up to its objective of helping small businesses. i am particularly sorry for the relatively rich and well-structured countries such as germany and austria. i can only say that the associations have been constructive, even though we have not always been able to accept and follow their opinions. the next steps are: after tomorrow's vote, we expect the council to give the final positive vote, and then the member states can implement this law. we expect that it will not take two years for implementation to take place, but that member states will start national implementation as early as january next year.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament will adopt tomorrow a directive on combating late payment that will make history. it is the first directive which can be explained quite simply in three sentences: first, public bodies will in future have to pay within 30 days in principle, unless shorter payment targets have been agreed and unless there are special circumstances requiring a payment target of no more than 60 days. second, companies have contractual freedom to agree payment targets within 60 days, payment targets of more than 60 days are no longer allowed, unless explicitly agreed and not grossly disadvantageous to the creditor. thirdly, if the abovementioned payment deadlines are exceeded, recovery costs of at least eur 40 and interest of at least 8% above the european central bank base rate may be charged without prior warning. this directive will help smes in europe a lot, improve their liquidity and they will have to borrow less from banks. market-strong debtors will no longer be able to impose longer payment deadlines on smes, and that is a good thing. moreover, the individual member states cannot only maintain shorter deadlines for payment targets in the form that has been used up to now, we expect that they will be maintained, because we cannot imagine that the late payment directive will lead to a deterioration in the payment morale within the member states. companies doing business in europe know that in the future, they will be paid after 60 days at the latest. this is a huge step forward, another step towards the completion of the european internal market. we can be very pleased with the adoption. it helps small and mediumsized enterprises and it helps the european single market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is quite common in the european parliament to begin by thanking colleagues, but i think that in this directive it is indeed appropriate to begin by thanking colleagues. first of all, i should like to thank commissioner tajani, who has, as rarely before, been incredibly open about incorporating parliament's wishes and legitimate concerns into the work of the commission. this was really very positive news for cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament. i can only agree with what was said earlier: this is smart regulation, we need more of this. but i believe that we in the european parliament have also done our part to ensure that this directive has finally reached the council with this result which has already been described positively by many colleagues. we have pursued a common strategy between the legal affairs committee and the internal market committee. we have worked closely together, even across the political groups, and i can say that i, as the epp representative, not only thank mrs weiler as rapporteur, but also respect her for having - although she had a different definition of the content at the beginning - very seriously and very forcefully represented the majority opinion of the committee at the end of the vote as rapporteur for this house. without this, despite the substantial work of the shadow reporters, this success would not have been possible. i would like to end by saying that we have so far only mentioned one area, namely the 40 euros which will be available as a lump sum in the future in the event of delay. i believe that when this measure is implemented in the member states, when consumers become aware of it, we will have to make a number of attempts to explain it, because the 40 euros for a normal delivery is in fact a strong argument against this late payment which we want to prevent in europe. i believe that the commission and the member states still have a lot of influence to exert on public opinion to make consumers understand why this is necessary in the interests of the small and mediumsized businesses in europe.
i have to say, madam president, the new rules on late payment in commercial transactions will enable us to achieve a real improvement for all businesses in the european union. it is particularly intolerable for smaller companies to have to wait for several months for invoices to be paid. i am therefore very pleased that we are today proposing to set fixed payment deadlines and reminders for both private and public contracting authorities. with this pan-european harmonization we are making a real contribution to improving trade across europe, which will benefit smes in particular. the second is to combat the black sheep of the industry. the black sheep are those who know, even at the time of ordering the goods, that they will never want to pay.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we will all find that if we raise this issue at home in our constituencies we will get a lot of support - which is not a given in european dossiers. because this delay in payment is not only criticized at home, but everyone takes it for granted that payments are made on time. and that's regardless of what party you're in, and it's regardless of what industry you're talking to. so we have a great match. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have expressed their agreement with this result tonight. i would like to draw attention to three aspects: as i said at the beginning of the debate, we will set the course tomorrow. but we will have to examine very carefully whether the facilities we have introduced for micro-enterprises, for example for agricultural enterprises and craft enterprises, are sufficient to meet the requirements of these enterprises. we will have to examine in detail how the restricted freedom of contract will work. this is a new development in the european internal market which we are now going to try and which we all support to a greater or lesser extent. we will have to see whether the 8% interest rate is enough, since parliament would have liked to have had 9%. we shall see how it works, and i would ask the commission to pay close attention to the fact that the member states are not trying to water down the directive in the process of implementing it. i also see positive results on the horizon. i have heard that spain has already made a new national law in our terms, and i know that the same is true of other member states. in any case, we will be carrying out a monitoring or impact assessment in our committee in accordance with a directive, so that the member states will also know by the time the legislative period is over who has implemented it in our view in terms of improved payment ethics and who has not. i thank all those who have contributed to this result, including the belgian presidency, which may have been a little short. we know how efficiently and constructively you have conducted the negotiations - a small country, but i would say a country with very clever and efficient methods of achieving results in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. my sympathies, of course, go out to the victims of this disaster. when i read in the newspaper that a pool of red mud had emerged from there, i asked myself, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, how such a thing could be possible. because we've been passing rules and laws for years to isolate these very toxic substances, to keep them safe, so that this doesn't happen. obviously something has gone wrong here, there are obviously people in charge who have not implemented the rules and laws of the european union. it is quite simple to hold them accountable. the question must be answered: who was responsible and who was not? i admire the hungarians who reacted very quickly and prevented a bigger disaster. but that can't mean we're going to leave things as they are. those responsible must be identified and brought to justice. it cannot be - i would like to warn you - that we are changing the solidarity fund now because of this event. it was created in 2002 when the floods happened. we have the rules, and we cannot transfer mismanagement in one country to europe and have the damage done here. this can't be the result. the solidarity fund is not there for that. he's there for the unexpected, the things that can happen. we must have the money for that, not for cases like the one in hungary. but i would like to make a suggestion: in 2002, when the floods hit, we did not have a solidarity fund and were able to use the erdf funds, for example by reducing co-financing in this area. it also helps countries to use their resources for other things. so there is a new way of providing these funds. this recommendation should also be adopted by the commission.
a writer. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i simply ask the question: what is the situation with regard to anti-discrimination and equal treatment of roma in europe? when we hear that databases - and i mean these databases are forbidden as such - are being set up by the french gendarmerie, but also by other countries, on ethnic grounds, and in a way as a prophylactic measure, the barrel is overflowing! in france, as in the eu, databases that collect personal data on the racial and ethnic origin of individuals a priori are simply prohibited, because of the high risk of abuse, because of the risk of discrimination. and only under very specific, targeted conditions, which take into account non-discrimination, can data be collected in this field. the roma must not be criminalised, and that is the crucial point. ethnically motivated databases as a crime prevention tool are illegal. the roma must not be the subject of special data collection because of their way of life, and we expect the commission, mrs reding, to reject all forms of ethnic and racial data collection and to make every effort to ensure that this is actually stopped in the countries. i want to be honest: i am wondering more and more what, apart from talking, talking, talking, is actually happening in this parliament and in the eu, and what have we actually achieved in practice to improve the situation of roma in europe, apart from talking, talking, talking. if we look at the data collected, we see that roma have become scapegoats and the displacement of many eu member states. they are being deported to kosovo because france has been violating eu treaties for months, the principle of non-discrimination is being violated and the commission is satisfied, and i see this somewhat differently from my predecessor, with the promise of the french government to regulate the legal basis for the implementation of the free movement directive by the beginning of 2011. but it is also a matter of decency to say that there must be a stop to deportation of roma in france and, what is also important, that roma who have been unlawfully deported should be given an easier return to france. i would like to ask you, in connection with the databases, what information you have, what initiatives you take, if these databases actually exist, and will you, mrs reding, initiate infringement proceedings in such cases?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not if you look at the bulletin board, you will see on the list of speakers that my colleague, ramón jáuregui atondo, is the next speaker. before he takes the floor, i would like to take the opportunity, as chairman of our group, to inform the house that mr jáuregui has been appointed minister of the interior of spain by the spanish government this morning. as you can imagine, this is an honour for our group. i congratulate him on that. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to quote a phrase from the declaration of the heads of state or government at the g20 summit in pittsburgh on 24 and 25 september 2009, which was a year ago. in it, the heads of government committed themselves to the following: 'we want to create a framework that outlines the policies and the common pathway for how we work together to create the strong, sustainable and balanced growth we need to create a lasting recovery that creates the good jobs our people need.' that's great. i think that this year a similar sentence will be written again at the next summit and at all the other summits. so i ask you, what has been done in the meantime to create the sustainable, lasting, strong growth that will bring the jobs our people need? that's the right description. what is being created is a philosophy at the european level, at the european council, that unilateral cuts in public services through budget reductions are the panacea for stabilizing this continent, instead of thinking that growth-stimulating investment is the basic prerequisite for creating more jobs and, through more economic growth, strengthening the revenue side of the states, which they desperately need to consolidate their budgets in a lasting way and to be able to fulfil their tasks. what we're seeing in europe is this: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to make a proper assessment of the budgetary impact of the measures it is taking. the opposite of what is described here as an objective is achieved by what is actually put into practice. this is a dramatic development! it is all the more dramatic because those who were at the source of the crisis, the creators of the crisis - the financial sector, the unrestrained speculative sector - are not held accountable by participating in the revenue side of the states, for example by a financial transaction tax. it is being promoted at european level, but at the moment of its being promoted it is already being put on the record under the slogan 'we will not be able to win the g20'. of course, the g20 cannot achieve this unless it is tried at european level! we are in a justice trap which is dramatic because this inaction of the leaders of state and government, this misdirection, is continuing to increase the social imbalances we have. the people in the streets are right, because this social imbalance in europe is not being tackled, but is being deepened by a wrong policy. it is the task of this parliament to make this known and to develop counter-strategies. that is why we are insisting on the financial transaction tax. we shall see in the reports by mrs berès and my colleague mrs podimata whether this house is prepared to say: we know that this is difficult, but we insist that the european union should take the initiative in taxing the financial sector, if not nationally, then transnationally. there is another worrying development. what happened in deauville between mr sarkozy and mrs merkel is the upheaval of the institutional structure of the european union. i wonder when mr van rompuy will draw the consequences. he is given the task of describing the necessary reforms with his task force. that would have been their task, and it was a big insolence to entrust mr van rompuy with this task. nicola and angela, this self-styled franco-german directorate is an attack on the institutions of the european union! (applause from the centre) if i were herman van rompuy, i would give them the begging. you can't be used and abused like a fig leaf all the time! but one more thing: if the lady and gentleman in deauville had looked across the channel coast, they would have seen the island's steep coast, where a referendum is necessary for their treaty amendments - at least if we believe mr cameron. does anyone really think that mr cameron would accept the treaty amendment without introducing further european legal constraints into this treaty? pandora's box has been opened. i hope that this doesn't fall on your feet. so again: europe is being led in the wrong direction, both in terms of content and institutions!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr. farage, i have a question for you. perhaps you could answer them kindly. you're so worried about the british tax office. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the united kingdom, and if so, what is the commissioner's position? will you tell the house whether you are getting your diets from the eu budget or whether you have opted for the national system in the uk?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. at the height of the financial crisis, the g20 countries pledged to take a joint approach to stabilising financial markets. today, two years later, we are still far from a global answer. the measures adopted are often guided by national interests and considerations. the initial enthusiasm has faded, and business as usual is often the order of the day. mervyn king of the bank of england has put it to the point. 'the need to act in the collective interest has yet to emerge', he said. the crisis committee's interim report makes it clear that europe is at a critical juncture. we need deeper integration, more coordination of our economic and budgetary policies, we need european infrastructure projects in the fields of energy, transport and telecommunications. we need a functioning internal and labour market and the necessary resources to achieve our ambitious growth targets of the eu 2020 strategy. we need innovative sources of finance to unlock the potential of the sme sector. we need more of a community approach and less of intergovernmentalism. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the debt crisis in europe clearly shows that stability and confidence cannot be achieved without discipline. the proposals by commissioner olli rehn and the van rompuy task force are intended to ensure that member states behave in a disciplined manner. unfortunately, the finance ministers, acting at the instigation of the franco-german duo, have rejected these proposals in luxembourg the day before yesterday.
mr president, we welcome the presidency of the council, mr commissioner. this could indeed be the time of the big answers, but it does not look like it. what is on the table in the so-called reform of the stability and growth pact is not the big answer, it is once again the lowest common denominator, it is once again the small coin that has been agreed upon. i would like to congratulate the commission. it is still at the table, the member states are not doing it entirely alone. congratulations to the council! it worked, france and germany have an agreement, you don't know if it's good or bad, but somehow they're not blocked anymore. what's all this? that means that next year, when the growth figures start to fall, we will be facing the people and not having an answer to the economic situation. where is the paragraph, where is the piece of legislation that you propose to us, that we learn to grow together out of the debt crisis? that is the gap my group has created and that is the debate we are going to have in this house. yes, we agree with the colleagues who want a more committed reform. we want that, too! but then we'll talk about content. if you are not prepared to give a stronger voice to the content of budgetary policy, then we really do not see why we should continue to talk about eu 2020. this is a paper tiger already today, we can throw it in the wastebasket today if you do not discuss its content with us more! we want to make a difference! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're waiting for that. that discussion is closed. that's going to be the key for us. we will not accept a catalogue of indicators drawn up in accordance with the legislation. this parliament will not be deceived! we will discuss whether unemployment and employment are important indicators of budgetary developments or not before legislation is passed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. economic governance, as developed here, is a one-sided focus on austerity and on competition policy. the problem - it has just been raised by the spanish colleague - of export orientation in germany is not even mentioned here. but this is obviously one of the central problems in the eurozone and in the european union. the german competition policy is detrimental to domestic demand in the federal republic, which is not discussed at all, but it is also detrimental to wages above all. it's a fight over wages, a competition over wages. and this competition for wages is creating enormous pressure in the european neighbouring countries, on the european trade unions, on the european workers. neither the commission nor the feio report addresses this problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you have listened to the debate this morning, you will have noticed that we have done a lot of work in the last few months, i think it is a little immodest to say that. we have also done a great deal of work in the special committee on the economic, financial and social crisis over the past year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. now the committee has been extended for another year. i think that is absolutely right. the crisis is far from over. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community. it would therefore be wrong to declare the work of the crisis committee as virtually completed and to terminate the mandate. we must continue to build on what has been achieved. and that is why i think the interim report we have here is acceptable to everyone. the broad support in the crisis committee is also a sign of this. the text could certainly be more concise and more concise in some places, but we should also see the report for what it is, namely an interim conclusion. the second part of the report is a very good report, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. we must consider where and how we can support the discussions in the crisis committee in the forthcoming debates in the legislative committees.
mr president, yesterday evening i was really suffering with mr rehn during the press conference when i saw how he had to present this deal, which was not really based on his proposals alone. after what we learned from the supervisory package, i think we have seen how parliament and the commission can work together in order to get a good result. i think this is really what we have to do now. when we look at the deficit and debt procedures, as well as your good proposals on macro-economic imbalances, it is really crucial, in order to have a good deal, for countries with both surpluses and deficits to bear their share in order to get the euro back on track. i can only say that a majority in this house is ready to support the proposals you are making.
in writing. since the 2008 financial crisis, the g20 heads of state and government have met regularly every six months to discuss economic and financial issues, to strengthen cooperation, and to achieve stable and sustainable growth in the global economy for the benefit of all. however, i believe that we need a broader approach and a more balanced perspective on these problems in order to provide a sustainable and adequate response to the financial, economic or social problems of the crisis. the member states' finance ministers are not in a position to assess the situation on the labour market and to find answers to the pressing questions in labour and social policy which takes into account the needs of workers or people in general. i therefore call for regular meetings of the g20 ministers for employment and social affairs. i also call on the eu and the member states, who are also members of the g20, to develop this idea further and to cooperate more closely in the field of employment and social policy and to seek a more balanced approach at the summit level. we cannot allow competition to undermine the protection of workers' rights. we need to enforce these rights not only for citizens in the eu, but also for other countries in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have not had the opportunity to discuss this as a group. i was informed of this by mr daul a few minutes ago, during the debate this morning. i have spoken to other group chairmen - mrs harms, mr verhofstadt - about this. i say this to my group because we have not had the opportunity to discuss this matter until now. i believe that in the event of a delay there is a great chance of establishing a broad consensus on the calendar for 2012. that is why i think we should decide on this postponement today.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon has given the european parliament a substantial new say. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december. the new framework agreement takes account of these requirements and the new balance between the commission and parliament by defining and giving substance to these rights. this is very welcome, because now parliament will be even better able to fulfil its role as the representative of the citizens of the european union. it is now up to us to use these new rights responsibly.
in writing. - i voted against the report because it does not strictly respect subsidiarity and interferes with the payment arrangements and obligations of the nation states. there are also elements, such as freedom of reproduction and abortion, which i cannot support for religious reasons.
in writing. - i voted against the report because it upends the budgetary consolidation of the member states and contains the usual communist words about state transfers. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the social assistance or the state guaranteed income through hartz iv is already so high in the frg that it is not worthwhile to work for simple professions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. the prerequisite for all prosperity remains sound economic growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by the special committee, which represents a constructive compromise of all the groups involved. we need more europe, not less! our economies are closely intertwined; the european union must not be left in the lurch. the report calls for european unanimity on essential issues. a sustainable eu financial, economic and employment policy must be the cornerstone of our action. the recommendations for action indicate clear ways forward: the credit rating of companies will now have to be carried out by an independent eu rating agency. high-risk speculation must be curbed by means of a financial transaction tax. the stability and growth pact needs to be better linked to the europe 2020 strategy. we call unequivocally on the commission to strike a balance between growth, equal opportunities and financial stability. a reduction in the taxation of labour is necessary to boost investment and thus europe's competitiveness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. in the social field, the promotion of human capital is of prime importance, in particular through skills and training measures. through numerous public hearings, workshops and analyses, we as members of the committee have made substantive contributions to the public debate. it is important that the ep provides clear answers to crises. it is the only way to strengthen our credibility and reliability with our citizens.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has made it clear that there is an urgent need to improve economic cooperation within the european union. to this end, the stability and growth pact must be strengthened and extended to include appropriate and effective sanctions. but this also means keeping a better eye on national budgets and the competitiveness of the member states. in future, we must be able to identify imbalances between euro countries and any weaknesses in competition earlier and be able to call for effective countermeasures. the aim must be to make the monetary union and the euro strong and robust in the long term, in order to avoid a crisis like the one in greece.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. we have several financial instruments to discuss today. we have already discussed one aspect this morning, but i shall first deal with the instrument of stability. the instrument was established in 2006 and is the largest financial instrument in the areas of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, conflict prevention, civilian crisis follow-up, civilian peace-building, and also in the area of counter-terrorism, for the judiciary and the police. nevertheless, the financial volume is relatively small. so far, it is only 1.4 billion in the financial perspective. it's not a lot of money, but it's good money because you can use it with relative flexibility. it has been discussed again and again, but so far we have managed to keep it in the budget. what is the mid-term review of the instrument about, so what is there to debate? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. firstly, the long-term measures in article 4.3 should provide for the possibility of programming measures to promote women in political processes, particularly with regard to the media. so what we are actually doing is transferring from an already very successful area in this article 4.3. so far, support is being given to media appearances by afghan women running for parliament, etc. we want to have this in the long-term measures as well, and not just in the short-term measures, so that this support for women can continue in the longer term. secondly, we want the peace building partnership to be explicitly mentioned in the directive, not only to honour the development of formal dialogue with civil society, but also to take the concept into the new era of the foreign service. it should not be lost there, which is why it is important to us that it is explicitly mentioned there. thirdly, we are in favour of increasing the proportion of the appropriations for longterm measures under article 4 (3) from 5% to 10%. however, i would remind the high representative that the committee on foreign affairs only agreed to this increase at the last minute because we were promised that in future the instrument would be used to carry out a wide range of measures to combat landmines, cluster munitions and ammunition residues. that is to say, this increase in longterm measures from 5% of the overall budget line to 10% has been agreed on condition and we expect you, mrs ashton, and the foreign service to respect this agreement and to design the 2012/2013 strategy paper accordingly. that means that it is important to us, otherwise it would not be in the spirit of the agreement. if parliament and the commission are to prevail, the main change in the text in the mid-term review will be the explicit extension of the scope of the mandate to small arms. i would like to ask the presidency once again to accept this idea. the european court of justice has ruled that this is so. i know there's still a stomach ache. but i hope that now, with the foreign service, we can perhaps overcome this division between the council and the commission and reach agreement on how we deal with the issue of small arms. i thought that was a very important point. the last point is the question of delegated acts. we talked about this this morning. i think we need a political solution and not a legal one, and we are not getting anywhere. a very short point at the end: stability instrument, programming in the foreign service we really believe that planning and programming must continue to be with the people who have done so until now and that these people must not be downgraded to financial management, but must continue to do content planning.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the financial instrument for democracy and human rights is still a very young instrument. nevertheless, it can be said that it does a lot of meaningful and important work. this is evident from the feedback we receive from civil society representatives both inside and outside the eu. it is therefore a very good complement to our human rights policy in the european parliament and in the eu as a whole. human rights work often takes place under very difficult conditions. it is therefore particularly important that this instrument creates the possibility to provide eu financial support to civil society organisations without the need for the consent of the respective government and possibly without being informed of this financial support by the eu. we should stress this several times, and that this support should be maintained and, if necessary, extended. i can agree with my co-rapporteur, mrs gál, on the commission's proposal that there should be a tax break in the countries where payments through this financial instrument are still taxed. this would also make the work of the ngos concerned much easier. but i see it as a constant challenge in working with this financial instrument that on the one hand we also have complaints or negative feedback that clearly says that there is an increased bureaucratic burden for civil society organisations that want support through this instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the repeated complaint, particularly from small organisations, that they are discouraged from using this support, is something we should take seriously and tackle now. i also see it as a challenge that it is difficult to reach many local organizations in the countryside, not in the metropolitan areas in the global south, that is, that they know that there is such a funding instrument and how they can handle it. if we imagine the situation: a rural environment, there is not always electricity, the use of paper is perhaps an exception - therefore it is necessary that special attention is paid to ensuring that we achieve these initiatives. i see a possibility in the fact that we are now expanding the eu embassies on the ground - and it is actually decided that in each eu embassy on the ground there should also be responsibilities, staff who are committed to human rights and democracy - that these staff, i will call them human rights officers for now, are working intensively to undertake exactly this mediation role and information and communication task, to reach even local initiatives that may not have the opportunity to communicate in english, french, spanish or another eu language. it is far too early to make a full evaluation of the instrument. the timeframe is too short, the results would not be very sustainable. but we must devote ourselves very intensively to this comprehensive evaluation in the next few years. and by evaluation, i don't just mean looking back at what went well, but also thinking about what new ideas we want to incorporate and how we can develop the financial instrument further.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. i'm speaking to the ici plus instrument. the financial instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries was launched during the last parliamentary term. in a statement, afet called for the development of a financial instrument for external policy which does not deal with development aid but is directed at the countries of latin america, asia and the middle east. the commission has therefore extended the small ici instrument. unfortunately, the commission has seen this as an interim solution, has added the dci countries, but has not developed anything new and is treating it as a trade instrument. the commission has therefore proposed an amendment to the title of the instrument, which clarifies the original intention to designate it as an external financial instrument. the new title is 'financial instrument for cooperation with the countries of the middle east, asia, the americas and south africa'. we ask for your consent. it would be more than regrettable if the eu did not have a foreign policy financing instrument that would be designated as such.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to raise the issue of the development cooperation instrument (dci) in which i, and also colleagues from the committee on development, see an urgent need to strengthen the scrutiny power of parliament. that is because parliament has the duty to control where the commission spends the money and whether it is spent as intended, in this case on official development assistance (oda). we have in the past found bad examples of where money was not spent in accordance with oda criteria or where we found that it did not comply with the goal of poverty eradication. merely having the right of consultation, our proposals and our ideas were not taken up. this clearly shows that we need a stronger position. we need the power to co-decide on where the money goes. not only the commission, but we too as a parliament have an obligation as regards policy coherence in development. we also need to make sure that the money that is spent goes in the right direction and that other policy fields also work towards the eradication of poverty. parliament also has a responsibility towards the citizens of the european union. we must better control where the money is spent, namely on poverty eradication. european citizens are in favour of development aid. they are even in favour of providing more development aid – as surveys have shown – but we also have to show clearly how we spend it and that we spend it to the benefit of poor people. therefore, the committee on development and i urge you to accept delegated acts for the dci.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not it is important to clarify at this point that the treaty of lisbon abolished the right of parliamentary scrutiny in relation to the eu's external financing instruments. this will place the responsibility for these financial instruments entirely with the commission and the high representative and thus with the european external action service. i think it is absolutely unacceptable that parliament and the council should be left out of the picture, when it is a question of defining and implementing the eu's far-reaching foreign policy. we support the intergroup efforts of parliament to restore parliamentary control over financial instruments. we therefore support the amendments to the delegated acts which have been discussed here. however, i would like to end by expressing my serious concerns, particularly with regard to the instrument for stability and the instrument for democracy and human rights, as i believe that these instruments are being used in an undemocratic and non-transparent way and in part against the will of the countries concerned. the eu has a policy of interventionism in foreign affairs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr scholz, very warmly for his good and open cooperation. we did not always agree, especially when we discussed the trilogue, but we had a constructive atmosphere for discussion. the expansion of the financial instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries will enable the eu to establish cooperation on an equal footing with the key emerging and developing countries. this includes student exchange programmes under erasmus mundus as well as support for business or cultural cooperation. i welcome that. i would like to draw your attention to one point: given the current financial situation of the eu - and indeed of all the member states - it is unacceptable for the epp to ask for new, non-existent funds for the implementation of the measures just described. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the development of the countries concerned. i therefore tabled an amendment in favour of the epp, which makes financial compensation possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have no doubt that parliament must have a right of control and veto through delegated acts in the whole package of financing for external cooperation which is currently being discussed. the spirit of the lisbon treaty must be restored here. there can be no compromise on whether or not to include delegated acts in the financial instruments.
rapporteur. − what will happen after 2013? as regards the stability instrument, we have seen that it is wonderful because it is more flexible than other instruments, but that also sometimes leads to misuse for food crises, for humanitarian and natural disasters. that should really be stopped and we should clarify, for the period after 2013, that this is really for conflict situations, and maybe add more flexibility to other instruments in order to address more emergency situations. then there was another thing that i would like to highlight. the recent british defence review puts conflict prevention at the core of the external action service. i find that quite interesting and correct. i think it is the right way forward to say that the external action service should become the hub for conflict prevention, in the interest of internal coherence. the tools that it needs include the stability instrument. i see others, like a mediation cell, being created within the appropriate structures. i think we should build on this when we look at the period after 2013, and ask: what do we need in terms of money and resources so as to really become a driving force for conflict prevention?
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the cooperation between the commission and parliament on the instrument for democracy and human rights has been good, very cooperative. parliamentarians were occasionally invited to participate in the exchange of views on specific programmes between the commission and civil society. the debate has shown that there are hardly any problems in handling the instrument. but that doesn't mean that we can rule out the possibility that in the future we might even have problems with the application. that is why parliament's right of scrutiny is very important. but the point on which we have not yet reached agreement is the establishment of a binding right of scrutiny for parliament, as is possible under the lisbon treaty. i therefore join the hope expressed here on several occasions that we will find a compromise very quickly, a political solution, one which fully respects the rights of parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner piebalgs, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, mrs lochbihler, once again for their constructive and results-oriented cooperation after a period of working together for over a year. the debate today has shown that financial issues, the use of budgetary resources, planning and the question of political control of the instruments are highly political issues. i would therefore like to conclude this debate by summarizing how the instruments are designed. the way in which we implement them has a lot to do with the way in which european citizens perceive the european union and, therefore, with the acceptance of the use of the funds for one or another instrument. i can therefore only repeat what i said this morning during the deliberations of the steering committee of the working party on delegated acts with mrs ashton and you, commissioner: i believe that it is urgently necessary to reach a solution quickly on the delegated acts while respecting the legal and political responsibility of the legislators and the commission . the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialized countries is being fundamentally changed during this parliamentary term. we want to allocate up to 348 million euros for cooperation in the fields of science, academic exchange, the erasmus mundus programme, culture, environmental protection and renewable energies, and the stimulation of bilateral trade relations. the aim is to give special consideration to small and medium-sized enterprises. i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect and has been able to make a number of important contributions to the work of the european council. in conclusion, therefore, we have launched this financial instrument in the successful compromise negotiations between the council and the european parliament, and we have tried to adapt it to the challenges of the future and to reach agreement on all the substantive issues. i hope that we will take a decisive step forward with the vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for this opportunity and i apologise on behalf of catherine ashton, who asked me to share with you what she intended to tell you. i am pleased to have this opportunity to make a statement on the current situation in ukraine. i should like to make my remarks in the light of three important upcoming events: the eu–ukraine ministerial meeting which will take place in luxembourg on 26 october, the local elections which will take place on 31 october, and the 14th eu-ukraine summit which will be held in brussels on 22 november. in recent times ukraine has enjoyed a high level of political freedoms. successive elections have been recognised as having been conducted in accordance with international standards. ukraine has developed a dynamic and diverse civil society and media environment. there have been consistent improvements across the board with regard to respect for human rights. as a consequence of these developments and of the commitment of successive governments to the path of closer ties with the european union, relations between the european union and ukraine have acquired considerable momentum. this is reflected most clearly in the ambitious and far-reaching european union-ukraine association agreement which we are currently negotiating and which aims at achieving the twin goals of political association and economic integration with the european union. president yanukovych’s government has undertaken a number of important economic reforms in recent months, which should be commended. these include the adoption of a public procurement law, which should play an important role in the fight against corruption and in increasing competitiveness. the adoption of a gas sector reform law, which paves the way for ukraine’s imminent accession to the energy community treaty, as well as the agreement it recently reached with the imf for a standby agreement, are also critical steps in securing macro-financial stability, transparency and a return to growth. these reforms go in the right direction and must be sustained. the ukrainian government has also managed to achieve a level of stability which has eluded ukraine’s political establishment in recent years. this is an important and necessary development in ensuring effective governance of the country. nonetheless, we are concerned at consistent and widespread reports of a deterioration in respect for fundamental freedoms and democratic principles in ukraine. particularly worrying are complaints related to freedom of the media, freedom of assembly and freedom of association. respect of these fundamental values is essential. they are the best guarantors of individual freedoms. they ensure a genuine competition of ideas. they are an essential component of truly open, innovative and competitive societies. on 1 october, the ukrainian constitutional court handed down a judgment which overturned constitutional changes made after the 2004 orange revolution. this decision only increases the need for ukraine to achieve wider constitutional reform through an inclusive constitutional reform process, and to a great extent takes up a key theme of the european parliament’s resolution of 25 february this year. such a process should seek to establish an effective and lasting constitutional system of checks and balances in accordance with european standards. for the european union and our member states, respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law are fundamental principles that bind us together. they are principles that cannot be compromised, so too for our relations with key partners such as ukraine. the pace and depth of our rapprochement with ukraine will be determined by full respect of these values.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the ukrainian people have repeatedly and impressively expressed their support for a european future for their country. however, disturbing reports from the country indicate developments that are moving the country away from europe. that's why we've scheduled this debate before the local elections. we can talk about economic reforms in november in the context of the eu-ukraine summit. that is why we must talk about intimidation by the intelligence services, restrictions on the freedom of the press and the ability to run for office without hindrance. such developments cannot be offset by positive news from the economic sphere. the approach of 'economic prosperity through authoritarian rule' is a chinese one, not a european one. those in power in ukraine today should not think they can get away with it just because the general european public is unaware of it or because there were shortcomings in good governance and anti-corruption in the previous government. that's right, you're right. but there was no atmosphere of surveillance, no visits by the secret service, for example to the rector of the catholic university of lemberg or to young people involved in ngos or opposition parties. shutting down power in the plant, seizing computers, occupying party offices for alleged threat of attack - the whole range of déjà vu takes place on the spot. there's a method to it. the intelligence service is headed by a mr. choroschkowskij, who actually runs a media empire and now also belongs to the committee for the appointment of the highest judges. this too is taking ukraine away from europe. there is not much left of equal opportunities in the political contest before the local elections. the opposition is partially excluded from the elections, while puppet parties are formed spontaneously and are allowed to participate in the elections by willing local authorities. in kiev, the district councils are abolished without delay, so that there are no elections; you know, the ruling party is not winning there at the moment. the power vertical aims to gain control over regions that previously had different mindsets. we shall use our european experience to counteract this. our member states took important decisions in democratic consensus between the government and the responsible opposition for european reforms, for the rule of law, for a competitive market economy, for european integration. we want ukraine to continue along this path with us. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i said that seeking economic prosperity through authoritarian rule is not the way to go in europe. we know this from china. i did not make a comparison, i merely said that this was the wrong way, it was not the european way. the picture i have drawn is, i think, very realistic for the people on the ground. what is supposed to be achieved there economically has yet to have an effect.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to say that i share the concern about the escalation of the situation and the undemocratic behaviour in ukraine. there are more and more reports of the suppression of freedom of expression of journalists, of outright threats against individual committed members of non-governmental organizations, of people who are committed to democratic development. the role of the secret service is also a real concern. but the struggles for press freedom and democratic development in general, in my opinion, do not start with the last election, but - as i have often said here - all the leading actors in ukraine have repeatedly abused their power to achieve their own interests. this abuse is getting worse. and that's something to be concerned about. it is not doing itself any favour by adopting this resolution without taking into account certain economic developments in ukraine. i am just as concerned to see that russia's influence has been systematically expanding in the ukrainian economy, in the energy sector, but also in other sectors. i would therefore also suggest that we do not vote tomorrow, but that after the delegation has been to kiev - a delegation will be going there next weekend - and before we have the summit here, after careful preparation in all areas, we should get to know what the european parliament wants to say about the situation in ukraine. i have followed this path with many ukrainian friends from the pre-democratic times to the new times. ukraine was on a very good path. the last elections, we believe, were conducted in accordance with democratic rules. if the situation does not improve now but worsens, we should still think very carefully about how we intervene and how we do not intervene. in any case, i would advise against making a decision before your next visit to ukraine. we shall have a better voice if we are present at the debate on the issues raised in the resolution. like i said, i'm really worried, i'm getting a lot of reports that this is all going in a bad direction. but we are not doing ourselves any favors by closing ourselves off from the debate on the ground and making decisions too quickly and hastily.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the honourable member: now that we have put all the points of our concern about the abuse of power and repression in ukraine into one text, what is the objection to travelling to kiev in 14 days' time with this text in hand, to discuss it and then decide how to proceed? i would like to know this, because i think that in the experience of our delegation so far this is the best and most productive approach, especially if we want to gain democratic influence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. is that okay?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to respond to what mr swoboda said. he raised a point that was not quite correct. in fact, we had a false quote from the venice commission in our epp resolution. i spoke to mr. markert. he told me what he actually said. that is why the quotation is no longer included in the joint resolution. so you see, that's not really a subject of debate anymore. you have addressed the rule of law in general. i would have liked, however, for you, as a socialist group, to have said something clear and concrete about the activities of the secret services there. if local parties are not allowed to vote, then this is something that can be criticized before the election. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we should all remember once again how dramatic the situation was in pakistan a few weeks ago and still is in many areas. whole areas are flooded, areas larger than many of our member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the people of the community. infrastructure has been destroyed: roads, hospitals, universities, kindergartens, schools, businesses. the livelihood of many people has been destroyed. i don't think we can imagine that. we all agree that we must help. but the problem is that in my language we would say, "wash me, but don't wet me". what do i mean? direct financial aid costs money and is of course missing elsewhere in our budget. indirect aid trade facilitation is what the commission is now proposing, and there are of course concerns from those who might be affected. that is why we are right to have a debate on this subject today. the commission has not proposed the use of the generalised system of preferences. i think that's very good. i think that the current solution, which is to go through the wto, to go down this road and really try to provide aid for self-help, is also wise. but there are still many questions to be answered: what are the real effects on european union industries? if i look at the commission's document, the proposal for a regulation, it says at the beginning of the explanatory statement that net imports into the european union are expected to increase by just 100 million euros. is this really a big, sustainable aid for pakistan? does that really help to move the large sums of money that are at stake? on the other hand, there will be a loss of customs revenue of 80 million euros for our budget. so, is that the ratio, too? does it make sense to forgo 80 million in customs revenue and get just 100 million euros of import growth? are the numbers right? i would like the commission to provide some really offensive information on this whole issue. i am firmly convinced that we must help pakistan. i am also prepared to explain to the citizens of the european union and also to the citizens of my constituency that we must do something and that help for others must always be paid for by someone. but i firmly believe, commissioner, that you should take this opportunity tonight and in the coming days and weeks to really convince the 736 members of the european parliament that your measures are the right ones, that they make sense. secondly, and above all, you should also take the opportunity to show how the employees in potentially affected companies in countries such as portugal, italy and spain and in the european union as a whole may find ways and prospects for themselves. i think that will really be the task of finding a majority in the european parliament for your proposal in a few weeks or months. i believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done by all those involved in this area to persuade and inform.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i also thank mrs muscardini for her work on this report and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. my group welcomes the approach of bringing more transparency to consumers about the origin of products and supports the roadmap to a stage victory, as mr rinaldi said. in fact, we would like to see more information, for example on the so-called ecological footprint of products, on the respect of workers' rights in the manufacturing process or on the fair share of the profits of producers and workers. but at the same time we do not think that these extended wishes belong in a regulation on the indication of the country of origin. the name of the country as such does not provide reliable information on this. take india, for example, where child labor is illegal. nevertheless, there are some bad companies in the region, but there are also a large majority of companies that comply with the law. we must therefore also ensure that no competitor or nationalist can bring a whole country and its products into disrepute in the case of a european regulation. we are in favour of expanding certification systems. fair trade labels are a model which should now be extended with eu support. by taking into account low-carbon production methods and decent working conditions, we can address modern challenges. i call on the commission to take steps towards a further regulation in this direction. let me add one more thought: the implementation of the made in regulation can also help to resolve complex political conflicts, such as the unhindered access of made in palestine products to the eu market and thus the opportunity for self-determined economic development in palestine.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the agricultural sector too, consumers have a right to be fully and unambiguously informed about the origin of products sold in the european union. we are giving them the opportunity to make informed and informed purchasing decisions. the long-term objective must be to ensure that the high european product and safety standards also apply to imported products intended for sale in the european union. this has nothing to do with restrictions on trade, quite the contrary, equal conditions of competition are the crucial precondition for fair world trade. the commission proposal does not meet this requirement.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, you asked me to come to the plenary to explain where we are in the negotiations on acta – the international anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. i share your view that this is an important dossier, and i am here for the third time in less than a year to discuss it with you. where are we? well, in two words, we are almost there. indeed, on 2 october 2010, negotiators from the eu and 10 other countries concluded the last round of negotiations. they have resolved nearly all issues with only a few still open. i will come back to that later. a consolidated and largely stabilised text of the proposed agreement was made public two weeks ago. i hope that this has allowed you to find out that the commission has scrupulously respected the principles that i laid out in my previous interventions in this house. it is essential to remember that acta is an agreement concerning the enforcement of intellectual property rights. this means that it does not oblige any of its signatories to create new, substantive rights or to change existing ones. it only commits its signatories to ensuring that the rights holders can fully assert their rights if, when and where they exist. acta is about establishing a new tool that will ensure that existing intellectual property rights are effectively protected. this is essential if we want to maintain a leading role in the ‘knowledge economy’. contrary to what some seem to be claiming, acta is not about creating some sort of ‘big brother’. i know that you had concerns with the fact that the negotiations were conducted behind closed doors and that the negotiating texts were not made public. at the insistence of the commission, successive versions of the text have been published and our negotiators came here after each round to answer all your questions. we have taken these steps to ensure that we could debate the topic in a climate of mutual trust. i should like to mention that the ombudsman has recently recognised, in the precise context of the acta negotiations, that it was justified to maintain the confidentiality of some key negotiating documents. the ombudsman confirmed that the preservation of confidentiality was legal and in line with the 2001 regulation on access to documents. let me now highlight some of the main features of acta. firstly, a broad coverage of intellectual property rights (iprs). given the diversity of iprs, on which european operators rely to protect their inventions, we have fought for, and obtained, broad coverage. in particular, we have managed to ensure that europe’s geographical indications (gis) will be treated equally. this is an eu success. it would not be in the draft acta treaty without the european commission. i know that it may not go as far as some would have liked – for example as regards border measures. justified differences will remain, and acta parties will not have to adopt the eu system of protecting gis through sui generis systems. secondly, acta defines for the first time an international standard for intellectual property infringements on the internet. the internet is the most global, open and fast-moving market environment, where music, films, books and software circulate. millions of counterfeit goods are traded every day through the internet. acta thus represents a ground-breaking – yet balanced – level of harmonisation and transparency for the rules applicable to such infringements, whilst remaining fully in line with the eu acquis. let me stress that acta will not change the eu acquis. our negotiating guidelines requested this and we have scrupulously respected it, as you can see from the text. thirdly, acta provides a balanced agreement, which replies to the four main concerns expressed by members, for the following four reasons. firstly, the text does not affect the protection of fundamental rights, privacy and data protection. secondly, it respects the important role of free internet and safeguards the role of service providers, as well as the european system of copyright exceptions, such as the european regime of conditional exemption of liability for internet operators. european exceptions, like private or educational use, will also remain valid. thirdly, the text refers to those provisions of the trips agreement that safeguard the essential balance between the rights of the right holders and the public interest, and that stress the ‘need for intellectual property rights to contribute to technical innovation, socio-economic welfare, or the protection of health’. fourthly, acta explicitly recognises the importance of guaranteeing access to medicines, by referring to the doha declaration on the matter, as well as by explicitly excluding patent infringements from the sections on border and penal enforcement. what is the state of play and the next steps in acta? well, in tokyo it was not possible to finalise the text. the parties kept a few reservations, which still need to be addressed in the coming weeks. there are, in particular, two issues open. firstly, should patent infringements be included or excluded from the scope of civil litigation measures? i would be interested to hear your views on this issue. i am concerned that a blanket exclusion of patents – an important intellectual property right – might risk depriving many industries of the benefits of this chapter. i am thinking, for example, of the automotive, machinery, pharmaceutical and agro-chemical sectors. secondly, the other important issue has to do with the eu proposal that the internet measures stipulated in acta must apply not only to copyright but – at least – also to trademark violations. as you know, on the internet, you can find thousands of offers for fake goods using european brands, be it for clothes, cosmetics, watches or even foodstuffs. i believe we should address these infringements made through the internet because they are basically identical to real-life infringements concerning physical goods. to conclude, i am firmly convinced of the importance of tackling the widespread abuse of european intellectual property around the world. acta can provide an important contribution towards this goal, in full compliance with existing european legislation. acta is the first important international agreement on iprs since the trips agreement in the wto back in 1994. it also strikes a proper balance with the rights of citizens and consumers. i look forward to a continued close dialogue with the european parliament and towards the successful conclusion of the agreement and its subsequent approval.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to thank the commissioner for having taken the opportunity on several occasions in recent months to report to the house and for having personally or with his staff also addressed the committee responsible. it is good and important that we ensure that the commission reports to the european parliament in a truly transparent manner on the state of play of the negotiations. i think that this will also enable us to evaluate and, accordingly, approve or reject such an agreement on the basis of solid data. i have the impression that many critics are now running out of arguments against acta. i think it is good that there is no change to the acquis communautaire. it would be really good if the commission could once again tell us that this is indeed guaranteed. there are still colleagues who have doubts about this, and i would be grateful if the commission could simply state this clearly and clearly once again - perhaps also checked by the commission's legal service. i think it's good that acta seems to really focus on enforcing existing law and not creating new law. i especially like the internet chapter. it is urgent that we take action in the area of films, music, books, software that circulate on the internet. i do not want to criminalize citizens, but i think that artists, creators, must be able to enforce their intellectual property rights on the internet, and i welcome the fact that acta is an entry point here. i would have preferred, quite specifically, that we could have dealt with the whole subject in the context of the wto. but i also note that we have lacked the partners for dialogue within the wto, so acta is certainly a starting point. i would be grateful if, after the acta agreement has been concluded, the commission would do everything possible to ensure that as many countries as possible join this agreement, and then, even in the face of doubt, we could show some flexibility. i welcome it very much and congratulate you here for having succeeded in including geographical indications of origin such as champagne, scotch whisky, parmesan and others. i think this is a great step forward in the interests of the european union. it must be possible to protect and defend our european designations of origin and indications of origin in the same way as product names such as coca cola, kellogg's cornflakes and others. i think we have to be proactive here in the interests of our producers. on the question you have raised, with regard to patents, on the one hand the title of the agreement clearly goes in a different direction, but on the other hand we have big problems with our companies here, and i would suggest that we perhaps discuss this detail with you again in the circle of colleagues on monday when you are in the foreign trade committee. i would like to congratulate you on what you have achieved, and i would like to congratulate you on your persistence in the remaining points, and i would be delighted if we could then decide in parliament whether to approve or reject the final text.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is clear that the negotiated acta is close to adoption an agreement which imposes a whole series of obligations on the contracting parties to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property. we in the european parliament will therefore soon be asked by you, the commission, to give our consent to this agreement. however, for months we have been making it clear and pointing out clearly in parliament that some of the declarations of intent made by the eu in the acta agreement risk going beyond the existing eu law. not only is it unclear whether the jurisdictional framework for trade agreements is sufficient for such regimes as sanctions or interference with fundamental rights, but it is also completely unclear to what extent acta will lead to the need to introduce illegal measures in the eu. acta must therefore be brought back to the negotiating table. and yet you want to put your signature under it now. so the first question i ask is, have you signed? if not, when? secondly, when will we get a detailed impact assessment of how acta might affect fundamental rights in the eu? thank you for your answers.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. us senators bernie sanders and sherrod brown wrote this week to the us patent and trademark office asking it to thoroughly examine whether the negotiated acta text is compatible with existing us legislation. you can be sure that we, as the european parliament, are also doing our duty of scrutiny as regards the legal order of the european union. my group will be committed to doing this thoroughly and taking all the time we need to do so, even though you have once again made a very detailed statement today on the issues of the community's water resources. the questions we were able to put to the commission in the debriefings, which you recently offered us after the negotiating rounds, and for which i would like to thank you, were not really answered to our satisfaction. the negotiator often made us feel that we were - if i may put it in a vulgar way at this hour - blasphemers who questioned something sacred, rather than that he had addressed the concerns of the citizens whom we were transporting. however, some of our initial criticisms of the internet in terms of its impact have clearly not been ignored, and some teeth have been pulled.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. once, a shipment of sneakers made headlines when it reached the islands, and the islanders were delighted. in another case, rubber ducks washed ashore. these are, of course, the very nice variants of lost ship cargo, but the truth is that in many cases lost containers can actually cause serious damage. we must do something about this, and that has already become very clear. the dutch government has now because it has been circumventing this problem launched direct investigations. why is this happening? various things have been named as causes. firstly, it has been noted that although there are eu rules on how to secure cargo, which means that we do not need new rules, commissioner, and you are right, the fact is that although all ships have the manual with them, where it says so, only 46% have secured the cargo accordingly. many have not balanced the load weights correctly. another reason is that a number of crews on short sea shipping already unload cargo before arriving at their destination in order to unload faster. batch failures can be the cause, as can equipment that is old or damaged. this, of course, can lead to a great environmental impact. it is true that 70% of ship waste sinks in the sea, but there is also the question of what damage is done there. 15% reach the coast and 15% drift. and of course, that 15% is also a big risk to other ships or to platforms and to the environment. that means we actually have to investigate, when accidents happen at sea, to what extent containers are involved. we must also talk to the shipowners and the port operators to ensure that they actually implement this in accordance with the regulations. then you should have regular inspections. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. we have to act now because this cannot go on.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. − a uachtaráin, tá mé buíoch do na feisirí ar fad a ghlac páirt sa díospóireacht seo agus ba mhaith liom a láidriú go dtuigim go fíormhaith an tábhacht a bhaineann leis an ábhar atá á phlé againn agus chomh tábhachtach agus a cheapann na feisirí gur cheart go mbrúfadh an coimisiún ar aghaidh le polasaí a thabharfadh réiteach ar an gcás speisialta seo. creidim gur léirigh an díospóireacht agus gach a bhí lé rá ag chuile dhuine an tábhacht a bhaineann leis an gcás. i also believe the debate showed the importance to be attached to the protection of the environment. interestingly, the debate has gone from mrs meissner’s rubber ducks and shoes all the way to columbus, who folklore says paid a visit to my home port in the west of ireland. i am very glad that he took that famous voyage! however, i would like to emphasise again to all of the members, but in particular to mr simpson who has taken such a keen interest in this area and who has put so much work into it, that we are very serious about this particular issue. we are aware of the large increase in the number of containers that are lost and, as i said earlier, commissioner kallas is looking at this problem. he believes it is not just linked to the lashing of containers but also to overweight containers. it is also due sometimes to the strength of the ship which was an issue that was raised, and the age of the ships – an issue raised by mr higgins. safety and protection of the marine environment, as i said earlier, are very important priorities for the commission. we cannot compromise on those issues and we, and commissioner kallas in particular, will certainly consider whether further action is necessary. i am sure he would be very happy to work closely with you and your committee, mr simpson, in coming to a conclusion on that. we already have quite a number of tools at our disposal to ensure safety, as well as the prevention of pollution, including from containers lost at sea. with regard to concrete action on the issue, i believe that action at an eu level does not seem necessary at this stage. however, i do take your point that the imo as an organisation is moving very slowly and that the commission needs to get involved to push for quicker solutions. i still think, and i know that commissioner kallas feels very strongly, that the adequate forum to discuss these issues is still the imo, and i suppose a review of the recent results of the lashing@sea project could be encouraged there. that project also confirms the importance of having a global approach when we are developing procedures and standards so that we keep this level playing field that we talked about earlier between operators from member states and indeed other states. let me conclude by emphasising that these issues should first be discussed in the imo. the commission participates as an observer in the imo and the commission prepares positions together with the member states. i can assure you that i will convey the results of the debate here today to commissioner kallas and the issue, i know, will be looked at by him and promoted in that context.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by gesine meissner on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the integrated maritime policy (imp) assessment of progress made and new challenges (com (2009) 0540 - 2010/2020 (ini)) (a7-0266/2010).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to see the house packed to capacity, not because of me, because this is my first report, but because of the subject, which is so unknown and yet so important. integrated maritime policy is a subject that is hardly known, but it is a crucial issue for all of us, because we can truly say that our future lies in the sea. 70% of the earth's surface is water. we have a growing population, not just in europe, but worldwide: nine billion by 2050. the earth is getting too small, and many experts have already discovered that there is a lot of potential in the ocean. our aim now must be to preserve the ocean's resources for future generations through an integrated maritime policy. only 10% of the oceans and their resources have been explored. we still have 50,000 products from the sea. there are already approaches to extract energy from the sea, to extract raw materials for medicine, cosmetics and industry. the important thing now is to make sure that the sea does not strike back in the development of the whole maritime policy, as described in a sensational novel by the best-selling author frank schätzing. we have also, in fact, the opportunity to see the greatest growth in the maritime economy of the whole economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's employment policy is not only a matter of the member states but also of the community as a whole. the eu has 23 000 kilometres of coastline and a third of its population lives by the sea. green shipping, offshore energy - all this is know-how that is very much at home in europe and can be developed further. we need an integrated approach to achieve all this. what are the specific areas? the first is transport. this is the muscle of transport in europe, because 95% of global trade and 40% of intra-european trade is carried by sea, through ports with inland connections and logistics. growth is forecast. we must therefore see that we can, for example, reduce emissions here and now and create a 'greener ship'. next up, shipbuilding. we have a lot of expertise in this, i told you. we must see that we use this productively to secure and create even more jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. fish are not only a source of food, aquaculture is also the fastest growing sector in the whole of agriculture and fisheries. you have to know that too. energy -- there's a lot of things that are happening with and around the ocean right now. we have oil and gas pipelines, oil platforms, offshore wind farms, and there is already a lot of thinking about how to equip tankers with sails so that they can then save 20 percent of their energy by using wind energy. wave energy is a potential of the future, and mini-algae can serve as biomass and are -- almost an infinite source, you could say. the research in blue biotechnology is about medicines. we already have painkillers and anti-malarials. they're working on a cure for cancer. the coastal protection is an important issue which also falls within this area. storm surges threaten our coast. we must protect the coasts not only from storm surges, but also from oil, from piracy, from smuggling, and we must see how the refugee problem in italy can be dealt with. the coast is also a popular tourist destination. we are working on developing a sustainable tourism concept for the coasts. so you see, there are a lot of individual areas that all have to do with water. the objective of the integrated maritime policy is to develop these areas in a genuinely caring and harmonious way in the community. a lot of people don't know this, but it's incredibly important. the european union has already achieved a great deal in this respect, but it still has a long way to go. that is why in this report, in which i have not gone into particular areas, i have looked above all at what has happened in the last few years, since the 2007 blue book, and what is still to be developed and what needs to be continued. these are the very areas which i shall briefly address again in my final speech.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. − a uachtaráin agus a chomhaltaí, ba mhaith liom a rá ar dtús go bhfuil mo chomhghleacaí an coimisinéir damanaki sa phortaingéil thar cheann an uachtaráin barroso inniu ag comhdháil thábhachtach faoi chúrsaí mara agus polasaí mara agus is oth léi nach féidir léi a bheith anseo inniu. let me say first, however, that this debate is proof that maritime policy matters. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs meissner, on this very fine report. the commission very much welcomes this excellent report and its favourable view of our integrated maritime policy. this report is more than a mere stock-taking exercise. it also sets out an ambitious, inclusive and detailed vision for the future of maritime policy. not for the first time in discussing integrated maritime policies, the parliament has led by example. the report is the product of admirable, cross-committee cooperation which adds democratic legitimacy to our policy. moreover, it opens up new horizons, not least with the welcome participation of national and regional parliaments and authorities, to help shape our integrated maritime policy to become a truly operational policy of relevance that will create more jobs and better quality jobs. the commission is confident that the policy demands in this report will impact positively on future maritime policy for three important reasons. firstly, in taking a forward-looking approach to the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy and ensuring sustainable growth in maritime sectors and coastal regions. secondly, they will point the way towards emerging policy objectives where the commission and parliament should work together. these include europe’s approach to climate change mitigation in coastal regions and to sustainable coastal tourism, support for greener, safer and more competitive shipping through the common maritime space without borders, and further action on maritime safety and accident prevention. thirdly, this report provides a coherent and constructive set of proposals for future actions. i very much look forward to hearing the views expressed during this debate.
the committee on fisheries has adopted an opinion. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank mrs meissner for her truly integrated work here, not only for the integrated maritime policy but also for the fact that she has involved all the different departments. i would like to say again, in the case of fisheries, that it is necessary that fisheries and aquaculture should naturally be a substantial part of the integrated maritime policy. it is necessary to mention once again that we can produce fishery products, fishery products, aquaculture products within the european union from our own production in the order of 2 million tonnes, but consumption is 8 million tonnes. we are one of the largest exporters of fishery products on this planet. so we have particular challenges in protecting our resources. as has been mentioned, a crucial point is maritime spatial planning. you have to be clear about what's the priority. and there is no doubt that fishing grounds and protected areas are a high priority, as are shipping lanes and, of course, maritime safety. particularly on very busy shipping lanes, special care must be taken. we talk a lot about renewable energy. the offshore wind farms, which are now increasingly generating energy in our seas, must be included in this - also from the fisheries point of view, also from the shipping safety point of view, and this is a major challenge. i would like to mention one more thing in this context: we must also promote research and development in the field of fishing technology. the 50 million we have received from the commission will not be enough. commissioner, please take this message. the integrated maritime policy will not, of course, end at europe's borders, but we must also deal with our neighbouring countries. think of iceland, think of the faroe islands, what's happened there in the last few years, and in the mediterranean, libya and egypt, which are a very central challenge.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs meissner on this report and thank her for the good cooperation. we share the approach of this report, which does not focus on the sectoral design of maritime policy in the individual member states, but rather emphasizes the coordination of maritime policies within and between member states. as we look to the future, the space on our oceans is getting smaller. the oceans are now transport routes, suppliers of raw materials, sources of energy, food suppliers and water reservoirs. economic use will increase, environmental impact will increase. conflicts of interest arise, which we must resolve through good inter- and national coordination. you can't say anything about everything. but let me say a few words about the sulphur emission control areas. it was not my intention to soften the boundaries. the extent to which the limit values - particularly in the north and baltic seas - will affect the shift from sea to road transport will be seen when the commission's study reaches us. and then we'll talk about it. but the framework conditions for competition within the european union between the north and the south must be kept on an equal footing. that should be the commission's objective too. there is one point we are not entirely satisfied with. we have been talking for some time about the strategic importance of the shipbuilding industry for europe. we also say that innovation is particularly important there, because that is the only way this industry can survive. we need a coordinated industrial policy strategy for shipbuilding. the member states' demand for financial systems to be set up for this shipbuilding was also very important to me, but has not been supported by the liberals and the conservatives here. how do you propose to support the shipbuilding industry in europe? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we social democrats expect better measures and proposals here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the integrated maritime policy is a forward-looking issue. the increasing use of the seas by maritime transport, the maritime economy, offshore energy and fisheries must be developed together. there are limits to the habitat. the various maritime sectors must work together in a responsible and considerate manner. the use and protection of the oceans are not incompatible, but they are mutually dependent, because only a healthy sea can support us all. i would therefore like to emphasize the good cooperation of the coastal states in the baltic sea strategy, which together promote the dynamic development of the fisheries industry, the environment, infrastructure and tourism in the coastal regions. the weak position of fisheries in particular must not be overlooked, since they are often considered secondary but are an indispensable part of the coastal economy as a food supplier. i congratulate my colleague on this excellent report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the oceans must be preserved as an ecosystem. but oceans and globalization are also intertwined. maritime routes are vital to our prosperity, for they are the lifeblood of world trade. in this context, much needs to be done to ensure environmental protection and safe transport routes. but we must also ensure the supply of raw materials in the future. scientists have high hopes for the most valuable resources found on the ocean floor and in the ocean itself. the key here is to mine them in an environmentally sound way. the third aspect i would like to mention is the link between the oceans and inland transport. i think it is important to establish a link with inland waterways. the development of the danube is also of great importance. it is the longest river in the eu and can link the black sea to the north sea via the rhine-main-danube canal. we should link the integrated maritime policy with inland navigation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention once again to the european union's transport strategy: from road to sea, that is our standard, efficient and ecological. we must not set environmental targets as high as those for the sulphur emission control areas in the baltic and north seas in certain shipping areas, otherwise transport costs will increase enormously. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would ask the commissioner to evaluate the study being prepared very clearly once again. we do not want transport to go back from the sea to the road, and we want a level playing field in the northern european area, in the european union and also in the mediterranean area. that's one of the basic requirements. i would also like to say something about maritime safety: i would like to see the integrated maritime policy also include a greater role for maritime safety in very busy shipping lanes and straits, for example in the cadet channel, where there will be a pilot obligation in future, but also on the bosphorus - my colleague has already said this - where there are large tankers and where cargo is transported in a highly complex way, so that we can achieve greater maritime safety through pilot obligation.
i thank you very much, mr pirillo. i did not include your remarks at the beginning of the debate because of the importance of the information. but i can assure you that all the vice presidents are working very hard. i'd like to invite you to join me in a noble contest, to pick a few names at random from the house and see which of us is better. but in the heat of battle, mistakes happen. i beg your indulgence.
member of the commission. − mr president, i know that at the beginning of the debate mrs meissner expressed her disappointment at so few members being here in the chamber. i think she should be very pleased that 37 speakers contributed to the debate. indeed, we had a very lively debate which has thrown up fresh ideas to encourage us to aim even higher in terms of the maritime policies that we pursue. we must manage the finances of the eu concerning maritime issues in the context of the european commission’s proposal for a regulation to finance the integrated maritime policy in 2011, 2012 and 2013. the purpose of the proposed funding, namely of eur 50 million, is to continue the work undertaken since 2007 to remove policy barriers and to unleash synergies by bridging all policies that impact on the sea, such as transport, fisheries, customs and marine environmental protection. the commission looks forward to working with parliament on the timely entry into force of this regulation so that we can implement our future integrated maritime policy actions. furthermore, maritime surveillance is an important new initiative, which is set to engineer a huge change in all future actions by maritime authorities at sea and aims to install a common information-sharing environment for the eu maritime domain. the communication from the commission concerning this initiative came out only yesterday. it is the culmination of intensive work that has produced a six-step roadmap to achieve in a short time the integration in maritime surveillance which seemed extremely difficult to achieve just a few months ago. i turn now to a number of specific questions raised. on sulphur emissions, the commission is fully aware of the concerns expressed by industry groups about the impacts that may occur due to the new marine fuel quality standards adopted by the imo in 2008. that is why the commission has called for – and subsequently hailed – the imo agreement which is now estimated to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide by up to 90% and, most importantly, emissions of secondary particulate matter by up to 80%. the commission will present a proposal to align eu legislation with the imo decision within the next months. the proposal will be accompanied by a detailed report that will also include the outcome of our ex-post impact assessment relating to the imo decision, as well as possible measures that the commission could take to mitigate undesired impacts on the sector. mr de grandes pascual raised the issue of sea basins. the eu is aware of different situations in sea basins and is developing appropriate strategies for each sea basin, tailored to specific needs. finally, ms rosbach and others raised the issue of an anti-disaster scheme. the european maritime safety agency is in charge of monitoring shipping safety. at present it does not have legal competence to regulate in the area of environmental disasters, but discussions are under way – within the context of the commission extending or renewing the mandate of the european maritime safety agency at present – as to whether more powers should be given to the agency in coming years. of course, the parliament will be centrally involved in this issue. finally, in my capacity as the european commissioner with responsibility for research, innovation and science, i was very glad to hear several members here in the chamber raising the issue of the relationship between maritime policy generally and, specifically, research into marine and maritime policy. last week, the belgian presidency organised a very important conference in ostend which dealt specifically with this issue and brought together scientists involved in this area. this is a very important pillar of our integrated maritime policies. i would like to thank mrs meissner again for her comprehensive and far-reaching report. i believe that we can now pursue the implementation of all future maritime initiatives with renewed vigour and confidence. thank you and my apologies to the interpreters if i was speaking too quickly.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i'm glad you counted. i didn't know how many word messages there were, but 37 is a lot. i would like to thank all those who took part in the debate today. i also forgot to thank all the shadow reporters at the very beginning. we've worked together very constructively. i had a lot of fun. i have included a lot of things in the report because i was very keen to get a convincing majority on this very important subject. we need - as you have noticed in the many speeches that have touched on such different areas - really joint action in research, planning, implementation and control of marine activities, and this through joint governance, joint spatial planning and monitoring. that is what this report says. but it's just so incredibly diverse. i would like to comment on a few comments: mr fleckenstein has raised the problem of so2. we have included this because it was important to us that we do not have a distortion of competition on the one hand, but still make sure that we protect the environment better with shipping. but what is not quite true, my dear colleague, is the shipbuilding. it's not that the liberals and the conservatives didn't want this. the question was only how we were going to do it, whether we were going to open up a new pot at european level to retrofit old ships, or whether we were going to say we need a strategy. that is the wording we have now. then my amendment was raised, which i tabled to include emissions trading. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. i therefore hope that we can get support in these areas. mr kohlíček, you said it was difficult to connect all the areas. i know it's possible. there are indeed stakeholders, entrepreneurs from all the different maritime sectors, who meet twice a year and exchange ideas, high-level players at european level, who all welcome this exchange very much. and lastly, perhaps, it was mentioned that there are so many different regions. i have already included island status in the report, by the way, it is not true that it is not included. the only area not covered by the strategies is the north sea. i live closest to the north sea, so i wanted to mention that there is not only the black sea, the mediterranean, the danube, but also the north sea. finally, thank you very much, also for the remark that we want to have a moral responsibility for the sea and for future generations. this is the title i chose: we need a new awareness of the sea. if we work at it, we've accomplished a lot!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
madam president, i ask my colleagues to vote against the postponement. we must speak out before the elections, so it must be now. it is an issue about fair elections in a european country and that cannot be a partisan issue. last time in 2004 we could only speak out after the falsified elections and we were united. this time there is ample evidence beforehand of security service interference and a massive practice of non-admittance or of fake local party lists to confuse voters. so let us be united again for the sake of democracy. i think the massive lobbying of the ukrainian embassies throughout europe towards us to prevent this resolution is proof of how right we are to speak out now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a very brief comment on what mr hannan has just said. the fact is that the european parliament has a seat, but it has one under our treaties and it is here in strasbourg. you are quite right, let us save on taxes, let us work towards working in one place only, but the stronghold of parliamentarism, mr hannan, is here in strasbourg. we can work together here as members of parliament, as representatives of the people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we had a big issue yesterday in the estrela report. i would like to say that it was a little difficult for me to finally vote yes. because as a young father who's had two births, i have to say, i don't know why i needed a vacation, because i didn't give birth, my wife did. this is about maternal health, and we've included fathers. that's a tough one. nevertheless, it is important for the young women that they have the chance to say yes to the child and at the same time to re-enter their profession. i think that's possible with this model. although i am personally in favour of 18 weeks, i subsequently voted in favour of 20 weeks in the final vote. but we must always ask ourselves: will this make for more justice, will it make for more children in europe? this is the question of the future, family policy for europe. i hope that this signal goes out, that we did something about it. we can only hope that the member states will now act accordingly.
in writing. − i absolutely agree with and support the tabled amendments, especially the ones on the delegated acts and restoring the european parliament's right of scrutiny. but i abstained on the final vote on the instrument (dci) itself as, directly or indirectly, the african peace facility was funded through this instrument, and this funding was used inter alia for police and army training missions. i am of the opinion that development funding must not be used for any military or civil-military purposes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not cambodia is an extraordinarily beautiful country with a great history, but this history and country also have terrible sides. especially current: people disappear, people are imprisoned without cause, there is a high level of corruption, illegal land grabbing, logging, etc. and what should worry us most as members of the european parliament is that those who denounce and criticize this are being taken off the streets and put in prison in sham trials. sam rainsy, the opposition leader in cambodia, has been persecuted on several occasions. he was elected before, was removed from parliament in 1995. he made it back. there were a number of attacks on him at election rallies, once with 80 dead. i myself was able to visit him in cambodia. i met a very peaceful man, a convinced fighter for democracy and human rights. and now he's been sent to prison for 12 years for a symbolic action, with flimsy arguments. the president-in-office of the council has already said that he will not be present at the next meeting of the european council. the fact that the opposition leader is being detained and thus prevented from standing in the next elections is an obstacle to democracy and the exercise of civil and human rights. i think that we cannot accept that and i call on the commission to call in particular for article 1 of the cooperation agreement with cambodia, namely respect for human rights in cambodia as a condition for european union aid.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the north caucasus was a victim of tsarist colonial policy, it was a victim of the stalinist regime's attempted genocide, but unfortunately, after the collapse of the soviet union, there were also two brutal wars, up to the genocide of small peoples such as the chechens. it is also a region where small, evil satellite regimes such as mr kadyrov's are committing brutal human rights violations. we condemn all forms of terrorism from all sides, but this regime has nothing to do with democracy and the rule of law. the european union is a major force in the fight against terrorism, and it is the european union which is the main force behind it. this is memorial central. we therefore not only demand that mr orlov be released immediately, but we also call for and give support to his meritorious human rights work. we owe this to him and his fellow fighters, the peoples of the north caucasus, but also to our murdered friend and fellow fighter estemirowa, whom many of us knew personally, whose murder must finally be solved and to whom we owe our duty to ensure that human rights and the rule of law finally prevail in the north caucasus.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. mr landsbergis, who knows the north caucasus like no other, has left a few short oral amendments which clarify the text and which i ask you to support. i'm supposed to be presenting it on his behalf. in paragraph 3 we want to add the word 'real' behind 'recognises russia's right to fight' and before 'terrorism' to make it more precise, because terrorism is often used as a pretext. in paragraph 5 we would like to add the word "lasting", so that it says "stresses that the lasting impunity in chechnya", and in paragraph 15 we would like to add the word "intimidating": "expresses its rejection of the intimidating search of human rights organizations". it is only a matter of linguistic clarifications, and i ask the house to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask on behalf of my group to vote on this. it has been postponed before before the elections. now we should not postpone it until after the eu-ukraine summit. we are also calling on the commission and the council to speed up negotiations with ukraine on the free trade agreement, visa facilitation and the association agreement. but we also want to discuss the fact that the opposition was disadvantaged in regional and local elections, that it could not run everywhere and, moreover, the separation of the executive and the judiciary is becoming less and less. it is important that we make clear the positive approach to ukraine. this is a european country which must have a european perspective. but we don't want it to sink into an authoritarian regime and then you can't achieve that goal. this should be adopted before the summit, because otherwise it could be misunderstood that the european parliament is not opposing these negative positions. we see that almost all election observation organizations have identified that the elections were problematic. we're almost the last ones not to have taken up a position here. we should not allow ourselves to lose our own credibility.
acting president of the council. - mr president, vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you are aware, we have been discussing cooperation between the united states and europe for some time, and in particular on 28 may 2010 we received a proposal from the commission to authorise the opening of negotiations on an agreement between the european union and the united states on the protection of personal data, a subject which has been discussed here on several occasions. this is also the case in this european parliament. the commission followed up the work of the eu/us high level contact group on data protection and data sharing, which produced a report in 2008 that was also made available to the european parliament. the protection of the data covered by this directive is, of course, a fundamental issue for europe. it is a fundamental freedom enshrined in article 16 of the treaty, and one to which the presidency attaches particular importance. the presidency therefore supports any initiative aimed at improving data protection in transatlantic relations and ensuring an adequate level of data protection. this agreement should take into account the data protection principles as set out in various documents: the commission has also adopted a number of legislative proposals, including the charter of fundamental rights, the data protection directive of 1995, the 2008 framework decision. i have said that we must achieve an adequate level of data protection, because this must be interpreted in such a way that it does not always mean that it is equivalent, identical. the rights of the individual must enjoy a high level of adequate protection, but the way in which these rights are to be guaranteed may differ from country to country. each system has specific characteristics, including data protection, which should not be a problem in principle. but the point is that we can ensure that the civil rights contained in the future agreement can be enforced. that they can be enforced for the benefit of all concerned. how will the united states and the european union ensure that these rights can be enforced in practice? each party will have to decide this for itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states. but what matters in any case, and for everyone, is the end result: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. since the council shares the parliament's concern on this point, in its decision authorising the opening of negotiations the council will ask the commission to report to it during the negotiations, in particular on the specific question: how will the enforceability of rights under the agreement be ensured? sectoral agreements have been concluded in the past. sectoral agreements with specific data protection regimes that have been different for each sector. and the various provisions of those agreements today are a bit of an inescapable tangle that really complicates the task of police officers who have to apply data protection rules. the negotiations on these specific agreements are under great time pressure. that was the case with the agreements on pnr and with the tftp discussions, as you know. so with the forthcoming comprehensive data protection agreement, which is to enshrine the principles of data protection, we should try to avoid having to negotiate a new sectoral agreement over and over again. on the other hand, we must also be realistic and realise that a single comprehensive agreement with the united states on data protection can never solve all the problems that may arise in the future. we must therefore take into account the fact that specific agreements may be concluded in the future. it will therefore have to be what is called an umbrella agreement, an overarching agreement which lays down fundamental rights but which does not in itself provide a basis for data transfer. that transfer should be based on other existing or future specific agreements. so i would like to conclude, mr president, by stressing that the presidency is seeking to have the negotiating mandate for this comprehensive agreement dealt with at the same time as the three mandates for the pnr agreements with australia, canada and the united states, and that we would very much like to deal with both of them at the council meeting on 2 and 3 december. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − mr president, baroness ashton could not be with us today so i will cover both the eu-us summit and the transatlantic economic council — often called the tec. as you know the summit will take place on 20 november in lisbon; it needs to demonstrate the added value of the eu-us partnership and its continued relevance in the 21st century. let me take this opportunity to welcome the active contribution of the european parliament to eu-us relations and inform members about our objectives for the summit. the eu and the us are still suffering from the aftermath of the economic crisis. therefore the economy and jobs will be at the heart of the summit’s discussions. we will start by reviewing relevant results of the g20 summit and will discuss our respective contributions to sustainable and balanced global recovery. we also want the summit to underline the need to conclude an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced agreement in the wto on the doha development agenda. we will state our joint intent to resist protectionism at home and abroad. we will focus on expanding the economic benefits of the transatlantic economy. as regards the transatlantic economic council, i very much welcome your ideas as expressed in the resolution. i would like to underline three elements in particular: the importance of strengthening the strategic components of the transatlantic economic council; the need for the tec to support and foster cooperation on all matters affecting the regulatory environment for industries and consumers in the eu and the us; and the crucial role of legislators in becoming guardians and actors in the convergence of our approaches. let me tell you some of my own views on eu-us relations and why i think the tec is of importance. the eu and the us are the world’s most integrated economies; we are each other’s largest trade and investment partners; we share common values and responsibilities for tackling global challenges on a variety of issues, be it innovation or environmental challenges, energy security or access to raw materials. even if our respective approaches to economic and regulatory issues remain different, consumer safety and data protection illustrate this. what comforts me is our proven ability to work together when times get tough. we pooled our efforts very effectively in fighting the economic and financial crisis; our joint pledge at the g20 and wto has helped to fend off protectionist moves. two years on, the eu and the us are now moving towards the next phase: the creation of smart and sustainable growth and jobs while facing serious challenges and increasing competition from emerging economies. the question is: how can reinforced cooperation with the us help us to get there? in my view, both the eu and the us need to rethink and probably redefine the transatlantic partnership to adapt to the new situation. we need to ask ourselves today what the transatlantic market place should look like in 2020. will the eu and the us be leaders in innovative technologies which have the capacity to transform society, such as electric cars and smart grids? will they succeed in jointly promoting open ict services networks and transparent regulation? will our smes prosper and access new markets by protecting their intellectual property rights? will consumers benefit from information exchanges between the us and the eu on dangerous products? how will we approach security threats and terrorism? by unilateral activism or by relying on more effective and mutually agreed solutions to foster secure trade? how should we approach economic challenges posed by emerging economies in areas including intellectual property rights, access to raw materials or subsidisation of domestic industries? the relaunch of the tec is an attempt to develop this strategic relationship. with my counterpart, the us co-chair of the tec, michael froman, we have agreed to set new directions. we envisage the tec as the main political platform where we can discuss economic issues, strategic issues – including third country issues – and regulatory issues. in advising the commission and the us administration, legislators, businesses and consumers have provided and should continue to provide crucial input and come up with possible transatlantic solutions to existing and potential problems. the next tec meeting will take place on 17 december in washington. it should focus on three main themes: innovation and emerging technologies; building the transatlantic market place and building the strategies for greening our economies. on energy policy: the eu-us energy council will meet on the eve of the summit; it will continue to work on framing joint responses to energy security. our intention is that the summit should ask the energy council to intensify eu-us cooperation on the development and deployment of green energy technologies and promote exchanges between our researchers to allow them to participate freely in each other’s energy research programmes. this work supports both our efforts on climate change and the creation of new jobs. we are aware of the deep concern amongst our citizens, about the impact of the global climate change. at the summit we will press the us on the need for the cancún conference to deliver a significant step towards a comprehensive global framework for tackling climate change. on development: the eu and the us are the world’s leading aid donors. as well as working on implementing millennium development goals on food security and helping the poorest countries adapt to climate change, we need to work closely on coordinating our efforts in the recipient countries so as to maximise the effectiveness and impact of our aid and avoid duplication of effort.on security: recognising that fundamental rights and the security of citizens are complementary and mutually reinforcing; we need to ensure that there is a good balance between the two in all of our work. i know that viviane reding will discuss this important issue, including the agreement on passenger name records, with you later today. the eu and the us must also work together in a more comprehensive way to tackle new threats to the global networks, such as cyber effects and cyber crime. finally, in the foreign policy arena, we will stress our joint strategies and maximise our impact. we must support the middle east peace process, with the aim of achieving a framework for agreement between israel and the palestinian authority within a year. on iran, the eu has delivered on tougher sanctions while at the same time being strongly committed to seeking engagement with iran. so overall, the summit will cover a range of issues that lie at the heart of the transatlantic relationship. i look forward to the debates that will now ensue.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, on 26 may the commission recommended that the council should authorise negotiations on the eu-us data protection agreement and submitted draft negotiation guidelines. this recommendation for a mandate is now being discussed in the council. i know that the european parliament shares my view: this is a unique opportunity, an opportunity to reach a high level of personal data protection, while bringing new dynamism to our transatlantic partnership. sharing relevant information is an essential element of effective cooperation in the fight against crime, not only inside the eu, but also with the us. the eu-us security partnership is very important: it is indispensable and that is why we should allow it to function. in the past, personal data protection has been a recurrent issue. each time exchange of data across the atlantic for law enforcement purposes has been discussed, the question has come up again. we believe that an agreement can ease negotiations on specific future agreements involving the sharing of personal data. such an agreement will also give us the opportunity to build on common ground and to find satisfactory solutions for future cooperation. let me be very clear on this. we need a general agreement which provides a coherent and legally binding framework in order to protect personal data and to enforce the rights of individuals. we also know that there are currently many specific agreements on data sharing between the us and the member states, and between the us and the eu. each of these has its own ad hoc data protection rules. that means a patchwork of different safeguards and provisions for processing personal data. we thus have a solution which is far from satisfactory, and which is hardly justifiable since we are talking about a fundamental right – and the right to data protection is a fundamental right. with your support, i am determined to end this piecemeal approach and to negotiate an umbrella agreement that:(i) provides a coherent and harmonised set of data protection standards and includes essential principles such as the principle of proportionality, data minimisation, minimal retention periods and purpose limitation; (ii) is applicable to all future and existing agreements dealing with information-sharing for law enforcement purposes;(iii) contains all the necessary data protection standards in line with the union’s data protection acquis and suggests enforceable rights for individuals, administrative and judicial redress or a non-discrimination clause;(iv) ensures the effective application of data protection standards and their control by independent public authorities. i believe that citizens and businesses alike expect a single set of legally binding data protection standards, which will then be applied uniformly across the union, as well as to transatlantic cooperation for law enforcement purposes. i also believe that we need to be ambitious. i am determined to pursue my objectives and i am confident that i can count on the support of the european parliament in order to achieve a good agreement with the us, an agreement which will ensure a high level of data protection for all individuals and allow us to pursue the necessary and important cooperation with the united states to prevent terrorism and organised crime.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the epp group supports the joint motion and thanks the speakers for their speeches. we must see - before the eu-us summit and now that the g20 summit is underway - that on many issues - economic, but also on peace and environmental protection - only a common european response has a chance of being realised on a global scale. the european parliament has therefore been working towards closer cooperation with the new majorities in the american congress, which play a major role in this respect. mr de gucht knows it at the tec, mrs reding knows it at the data protection level, and swift has also seen that parliaments have an important role to play in this matter if this is to be achieved. but together, the europeans and americans, who still account for 60 percent of the world's gross domestic product, have a chance to set those standards, to respond more positively to the challenges of terrorism, to the issues of iran and the middle east, to climate change and many other things. we should make the appropriate effort here. i therefore hope that progress will be made on these general political questions, that progress will be made on the tec, which, thanks to mr de gucht, is to be revived. i hope that the original objective can be achieved there, so that we can get to a transatlantic market by removing trade barriers, where we can generate a lot of growth while avoiding unnecessary costs, and also, mrs reding, advancing the issues that have to do with fundamental rights, with data protection and things like that, where for many reasons we have to have data protection, but we also have to have data exchange. it is therefore very good that we are trying to agree on common standards despite the different legal approaches. this means, of course, in financial market issues, too, let me make one more comment, that while there is legislation now to make sure that something like two years ago cannot happen, but that now, for example, with the fed's decision to put 600 billion dollars into the market without consultation, there are of course concerns here too, which have to do with inflation and some other things, and some mess in the world economy. we are not going to be able to do that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the november 2 elections mark a major turning point in recent american history, and one feels the country is catching its breath. in this situation it is all the more important that we signal a reliable cooperation and advocate clear priorities in future cooperation. i am grateful to mr de gucht for raising the subject of the transatlantic economic council at the beginning of his remarks and for what he said on this subject. we need a revival of tec. so far, tec has done a hell of a lot, but there's hope. and i also share and support the two aspects you have mentioned, commissioner, both bilateral cooperation, for example with regard to the standardisation and regulation of low carbon technologies, but also the strategic component beyond that. we hope this is a step forward. it is regrettable that climate policy will not play a role at this one and a half hour summit in portugal. it is important, however, that our representatives, mr barroso and mr van rompuy, make it clear that europe will not be deterred or dragged back. the focus on development policy is positive, and it would be good if we looked at it from a european perspective, with a focus on the millennium development goals and a focus on climate policy, not just any cooperation, but also qualified cooperation. finally, in the face of a weakened president and new isolationist tendencies in the united states, it will be important for europe to take independent international initiatives, for example in the middle east with regard to the palestinians, syria or lebanon. we should make it clear to the american people that we are ready and willing to take on this responsibility.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard enough about the importance of transatlantic relations, and i do not think anyone here is questioning that. the united states is one of our most important trading partners and allies, and as a german, i can say that what we owe to the united states is not worth gold. nevertheless, it must be said that a person who is always bowing cannot negotiate on equal terms. if we as the european union want to have a decent, respectful relationship with the united states, then it is also time to show some backbone when it comes to our positions. mrs. reding, you've made it clear once again that you're the right woman in the right position to do this, too. you have mentioned essential principles of european data protection law, and i believe that in the context of an eu-us data protection agreement, these are unbreakable principles for us. there can be no race to the bottom here if we agree to an agreement which is intended above all to protect our citizens, a protection which is enshrined in various ways in the charter of fundamental rights, the european convention on human rights and the treaty of lisbon in articles: the protection of personal data and the protection of privacy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not deleted, that they are not corrected, that they are not disclosed, that they are not used in a way that would be contrary to the interests of the data subject. at the same time, of course, when negotiating such an agreement, one must also be careful that it does not take place in an airless space. we have interactions with the european data protection directive, which is being revised, with the directive on the protection of personal data in the electronic communications sector, with the transfer of passenger data negotiated by the honourable member in the field. all of this is seen in context. i believe that when the council is due to discuss your mandate on 2 and 3 december, mrs reding, it can be assumed that this house will support you. bon courage and good luck! we're with you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the proposed agreement meets the long-standing desire of this house to finally establish binding minimum standards and rights of action in data protection with the us. the aim is to close legal loopholes and ensure a high standard of data protection for the citizens of the european union. we must work closely with our american partners. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission's proposal for a negotiating mandate for such an agreement is a good one and points in the right direction. as rapporteur for the european parliament, i am pleased to assure the commission of the broad support of all the groups in this parliament for this draft. we believe it is now urgent that the council should adopt this proposal in order to enable the negotiations to begin as soon as possible. it will certainly not be easy to convince our partners on the other side of the atlantic of the details of our concern. but i am convinced that the united states is founded on the foundation of liberty, democracy and fundamental rights, and shares our appreciation for individual rights vis-à-vis governmental authorities. it is not therefore an impossibility or a conflict, but a realistic way of strengthening the common features on both sides of the atlantic and of laying a new foundation for even closer cooperation. finally, there is one thing that is particularly important to us as a parliament: only if we succeed in creating a uniform framework within the eu will we win the trust of citizens in transatlantic data protection. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the data protection agreement with the us provides a framework for all eu and member state agreements with the us. in this context, i look forward to working as rapporteur for the data protection agreement with the united states and to working closely with colleagues in this parliament, the commission, the council, as well as with the us congress and the us government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to mention briefly three critical points, also on behalf of some colleagues from the committee on transport and tourism, which i ask you, on behalf of the commission, to raise in your discussions. firstly, even if it has already been decided, the travel promotion tax is a unilateral and unacceptable decision of the american government. we hope you can get them to reconsider. secondly, the exclusion of romania, poland, bulgaria and cyprus from the visa-free regime is something which the european parliament cannot approve of and which we believe should not remain the case. thirdly, we welcome joint efforts to develop international safety standards and to develop intelligent safety concepts, but unilateral measures, such as compulsory container scanning, do not offer a solution because of their one-sidedness and disproportionate nature. the cost-benefit ratio is unreasonable and unreasonable for european ports and businesses.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the united states and europe are the west's community of destiny. access to third country markets is a common concern and is in the interest of both the eu and the us, in particular because the post-financial crisis economic recovery is likely to start in emerging countries such as brazil, india and china, where significant and discriminatory trade and non-tariff barriers still exist. we are convinced that the transatlantic economic council can and must play an important role in promoting a common approach between the european union and the united states in their trade relations with third countries. we call on this transatlantic economic council to work towards a common approach and a common strategy for new us-eu free trade agreements, even though i know that this may not be entirely without problems. moreover, this coordination between the us and the eu is urgently and rightly called for by industry both in the context of the g8, the g20 and in wto negotiations. we also want - probably as much as the united states - to see the doha round of development negotiations concluded as soon as possible. we will need to make new and substantial proposals, but we will also need to get the emerging countries to come to us. here too, a joint strategy between the us and the european union would be mutually beneficial. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. international terrorism must be fought together decisively - no question - but on the basis of our common values and the rule of law and not on the basis of the very arbitrary interpretations of the law by former us president george w. bush, which he has now set out in his book and which he has announced on the talk shows. i say this also in view of the new majorities in the us congress. it's also crucial for us to advance data protection, to respect civil rights. because one thing must also be clear: we cannot play the song of freedom on an instrument of violence. we cannot explain to people in other countries what we think of the rule of law unless we all stand by it and live by it. i am very glad that with president obama a new wind is blowing in the united states, even if he may seem a little weakened now. one thing is clear: we will stand with those who defend the rule of law!
acting president of the council. - the importance and necessity of pnrs have become clear in recent years. we have to think of the attacks in new york, but also of the failed attack on the flight from schiphol to detroit; of course, we have also noticed in the past few days that the threat levels remain very high. look at the information we are getting from different member states, but also the increase in threat levels in a number of countries, such as france, spain. my country has also raised the threat level for certain places and there was also a recent travel alert from the united states. i think that the commission and the presidency have worked very hard on pnr in recent months. the current state of affairs: on 21 september, the commission presented to the council a communication on the eu's policy on the transfer of passenger data to third countries. it has also made three proposals for a negotiating mandate for agreements with canada, the usa and australia, all three proposals being identical in content. on 7 october the council therefore immediately discussed these proposals, the method and timing of the three mandates, and decided that the three mandates should indeed have identical content, that the three mandates should be accepted by the council at the same time, that the three mandates should start at the same time, and that negotiations with the usa, canada and australia should start no later than december of this year. the council is aware that the three agreements must ensure a sufficiently high level of data protection. i think that the foreign partners should also be given the guarantee that personal data are adequately protected. we have always called for this in agreements with other countries. the european union has always been committed to this, including in previous agreements with countries. i would also like to point out that one of those previous agreements - the one with australia - was once labelled the most data protection-friendly agreement of the year. i therefore believe that the european parliament is right to make high demands on data protection. the council will therefore ensure that data protection requirements are respected and will certainly also ensure that the principle of proportionality is always respected in order to avoid any infringement of the right to protection of personal privacy. that is why the council, in the text of the negotiating mandates, also placed great emphasis on the importance of articles 7 and 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the negotiating mandates shall also provide for a retention period and a proportionate and limited duration for access to pnr data. this requirement is further reinforced by taking into account the different forms in which pnr data may be used. historical data can only be used reactively, current data can be used in real time and risk profiles will be developed in particular for proactive use. as far as risk patterns are concerned, we are aware that the european parliament is very concerned about this so-called profiling. the commission will therefore explain in detail in its proposal what exactly is meant by profiling. and the presidency will ensure that risk analyses cannot at any time lead to stigmatisation of persons of a particular ethnic origin. i would like to make two further comments in the context of this brief introduction: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of personal data. i would like to refer to the debate you have just had with my colleague, the minister for justice. i would like to make it clear with this brief introduction that the council is also really making this pnr a priority, but also really wants to take utmost account of the legitimate concerns here in the european parliament regarding a good balance that must always be struck between privacy and security. i think that recent events and recent threats are always pushing us backwards. of course, mr president, i am available to parliament at any time, not only today but also in the coming weeks, to continue the debate on pnr and on mandates.
member of the commission. − madam president, on 21 september the commission issued a package of proposals on the exchange of passenger name records data with third countries and that consisted of a communication on eu external pnr strategy with some principles, as you requested in your resolution from may earlier this year. there were also three recommendations on negotiating directives for new pnr agreements with canada, australia and the us. i would like to thank the authors of the may resolution for the excellent team work we have had and the very constructive cooperation on this file and your constructive way of finding solutions to move forward within the new institutional framework. the objective of the communication is to establish for the first time a set of criteria and principles that would guide us in our external relations concerning pnr. we can use that as a method for communicating with third countries, but also define our own policy with that. the communication will of course seek to achieve coherence with the eu pnr that will be presented at a later stage. the directive has not been adopted, that is the mandate has not been adopted by the council yet, but the mandates of course follow the structure of the general communication. the issue of profiling was raised by the belgian presidency as well. risk assessment is an issue that i know comes up very often in the discussions and that is why i have chosen to raise it immediately. the concept of profiling is not in itself defined in any legal instrument, but that does not mean that we do not have laws on it. the data protection instruments address it, but call it ‘prohibition of automated processing’: that means that eu data protection legislation prevents any individual from being subject to a decision which produces legal effects concerning him or her, or significantly affects him or her, and which is based solely on the automated processing of data. it is not prohibited to process data in an automated matter, but decisions which legally affect individuals must not be taken in automated manner. the pnr communication highlights these principles and lays down efficient and effective measures to safeguard the interest of data subjects. in particular, any automated decision should be verified by a human being and allow the data subject to explain his or her point of view. this means that the final decision taken towards a person can never be taken in a fully automated manner. in this way, the communication seeks to ensure that the processing of data does not go beyond what is legitimate and that the processes comply with fundamental rights including our current data protection rules. you have also requested the commission to clarify the state of play on bilateral agreements and memoranda of understanding relating to the visa waiver program. i will try to enlighten you a little bit on this. in august 2007 the us passed the implementing recommendations of the 9/11 commission act and a section of this covers the modernisation of the visa waiver program. the terms and conditions of this law affect all eu members, independent of whether they are in the visa waiver program or not. on the eu side, this act led to a twin-track approach agreed by the council in march 2008. the eu track concerns the negotiations between the eu and the us regarding conditions for access to the us and indeed to the visa waiver program. that falls under eu competences – repatriation of own nationals, enhanced travel document security and airport security. this resulted in an eu-us agreement confirming that the eu satisfies these conditions. we also had the bilateral track: bilateral negotiations between the eu and between the us and member states to satisfy us conditions for access to the visa waiver program which fall under the member states’ competence as opposed to eu competence. that is cooperation with the us on serious crime, counter-terrorism initiatives and information-sharing in these areas. under this bilateral track a number of member states initially signed a memorandum of understanding with the us. this memorandum was not intended to be in itself a legal base for any exchange of data. they confirmed a willingness of the parties to negotiate agreements on passenger information, screening information on known or suspected terrorists, information to combat terrorism and serious crime, and information, migration and border security matters. according to the information that the commission has just gathered from the member states, eight member states have signed such a memorandum of understanding with the us. after the signature of these memoranda, the us and some member states have negotiated two types of agreements. first, agreements on enhancing cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime: that concerns cooperation on matching of fingerprints and dna samples. fourteen member states have identical agreements with the us. secondly, agreements on the exchange of screening information concerning known or suspected terrorists: these concern exchange of specific information about individuals who are suspected or known terrorists, namely their full name, their date of birth, passport and citizenship. ten member states have such agreements. but let me add that none of these bilateral agreements cover pnr data. the exchange of pnr data only takes place under the eu-us agreement. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the abolition of the former pillar structure, all conditions for the us visa waiver program now fall under eu competence. the commission is right now evaluating whether the twin-track approach agreed in 2008 should be updated following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i will of course keep you fully informed about this. the parliament resolution also refers to the eu-us cooperation on one-stop aviation security. this is the responsibility of vice-president kallas who is transport commissioner. he has been pursuing negotiations with the us transportation security administration to exempt us-originating passengers at eu airports from rescreening. this should improve efficiency at eu airports without compromising security. vice-president kallas has kept the committee on transport and tourism of this house informed about these issues. it is important to underline that this issue is very much distinct from pnr. the one-stop cooperation aviation security is not about transfer of personal data and it does not concern information processing with respect to the pursuit of suspected criminals or terrorists, so as such we will not raise it in the pnr negotiations. to conclude – and i am sorry to be a bit long but i think this needed to be clarified – i would like to note that the council will, as the president-in-office from the belgian presidency said, adopt the negotiating mandates very soon. i am committed as always to keeping you informed about the progress in all the negotiation stages. it has already been decided that we will conduct negotiations in parallel with all three countries, but they will not necessarily be completed at the same time. i know that this is of particular interest to your house and i therefore remain at your disposal to discuss this now and with the relevant committees and with the other members whenever you wish to do so.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the vote on the air passenger record tomorrow would not have been necessary if we as members of parliament had been taken more seriously and better informed by the commission and the council on the transfer of data from the eu and its member states to third countries since the swift decision. if we continue to do this interinstitutional thing, we and the united states may be in danger of ending up in the same psychological situation as we have had with swift with regard to passenger records. none of us want that, and i think it's very dangerous. but we have to make an effort. i am not sure that there is a clear concept of the question of the necessary exchange of data for the purpose of combating terrorism, which may be the basis for this. first swift, then passenger records, then we have the memorandum of understanding, where access to national databases is provided, then we have a framework agreement with the usa, then we want to update our own data protection novelties, then we want to install this one-stop security program all of this is kind of a piece of work for me. it is also necessary to clarify or to find out what data the united states actually needs to combat terrorism and how we can help and do so. this is a kind of a salami tactic, and it's harmful. i am aware of the time lag caused by the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. but it is even more damaging for us if the council and the commission do not inform us of these events. i therefore ask the representatives of the commission and the council to do five things. firstly, why not develop a sensible approach which includes the exchange of data for the purpose of combating terrorism in a comprehensive and final way. i would also ask you to ensure that there is cohesion in the eu on data transmission issues and not to divide it into national and european issues. i would also ask you to align the powers in the decisions on this matter to a general european competence and to consider the possibility of preferring the conclusion of pnr agreements with canada and australia. finally, i would ask for more rapid action, because the terrorists keep pointing out the shortcomings in security, as they have done recently in the transport of goods.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. unfortunately, in a globalized world, terrorism and organized crime are also global, and so we know that we need international cooperation and we need to share data. i was very pleased to hear that both the commission and the council in turn give very high priority to civil rights and data protection. we cannot therefore sit back as a parliament, because the question of storage periods, the amount of data, the purpose of the data, but also the possibilities of checking whether the data protection provisions are actually being implemented, will remain critical points, because in this sensitive area we do not need blind control, but we need more confidence. the conditions for the exchange of data must also be set at a particularly high level, because it is not just a matter of specific agreements with australia and the usa, but several other countries, such as korea and india, already want to have pnr agreements with us. that is why it is very important that we have particularly high safety standards in place. the same applies to the transfer of data to third countries. here again we must consider very carefully the conditions we wish to set. at the same time, when we talk about pnr, we must also look beyond the edge of the plate. what is the point of keeping the volume of data as low as possible when negotiating passenger data, if in return the united states announces that it will not only impose an entry fee but also collect additional data from passengers? we also have a problem within the european union. what is the point of agreeing on the highest possible standards and limiting the amount of data, if at the same time bilateral agreements are being concluded whose content and protection standards we do not know? mrs malmström said that this was not about pnr data. but all the data collected is supposedly for the purpose of fighting terrorism and crime! i would therefore like to conclude by saying once again that we need not only good provisions on individual measures, but we also need to have a global overview of all measures and all the data provided by the eu and the member states. we must be clear about one thing: no matter how many measures we take and how much data we collect, there will never be 100% security. we must also face this fact.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. tomorrow we in parliament will adopt a joint resolution which once again highlights our concerns about the exchange of passenger data. why are we doing this? because we have been making criticisms for several years now, and we feel that they have not yet been fully taken into account in the current negotiations, and because it is important to us that this be taken into account from the outset, so that these agreements will at least have a chance of being approved in parliament at the end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, it is important and necessary to see that we want a common european approach and not different data exchange measures with different data protection rules. it is therefore important to make it clear that this should be solved in a uniform manner at european level with the contracting parties. the second point, which is all the more important, is that the whole thing is on a legally sound basis and in accordance with the treaty. we have made it clear on several occasions that the use of passenger data for profiling purposes is rejected by parliament and that long retention periods are incompatible with constitutional law. this means that proactive and reactive use of passenger data is essentially excluded. this must be made clear in the mandate and in the negotiations, so that in the end we can get approval here in parliament.
president of the council. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to be back before you again for a debate on a complementary part of the whole of the reforms we want to put in place in the financial sector. the text before you is part of the supervisory package which, as you know, was already unanimously adopted in the council. again, with regard to investment funds, we made the same unanimous progress in the council, and you adopted the supervision package by a very large majority. i hope that we shall have the opportunity to see such a large majority on the investment fund side. this directive introduces for the first time european regulation concerning alternative fund managers, i.e. first of all - we have spoken about this on several occasions - hedge funds and private equity firms. these companies, which are beneficial to the european economy, have not been subject to any specific supervision or regulation at european level until now. this proposal is fully in line with commissioner barnier's wishes - and my own - to extend effective and appropriate regulation and supervision to all financial actors and activities involving significant risks. with this directive, europe is taking a further step towards the full implementation of the decisions taken in the g20 framework; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. this text is fully integrated, as i said, into the new framework of european supervision, by strengthening the role of esma in the regulation of alternative fund managers. with your vote, which i hope will be a positive one, the managers of these funds will be subject to consistent and largely new rules aimed at increasing transparency towards the supervisors, investors, companies, workers of the companies bought by some of these funds. private equity firms will have to notify their presence in the acquired companies and provide information to employees, including on their future strategy for the company and the potential impact on employment. the directive also aims to increase investor protection. the depositary function will be considerably strengthened, for example, as will risk management. the leverage effect, the method of remuneration or the delegation will now be examined. the directive also aims to deepen the internal market in this sector, in particular by introducing an intra-european passport which will facilitate cross-border transactions to the benefit of the economy as a whole. a passport for third countries will also be provided in order to maintain a level playing field at global level, respecting the principle of 'same rights, same obligations'. i welcome the genuinely european nature of this directive, which guarantees a high level of protection and transparency, while continuing to promote investment in europe. based on strict controls and a central role for the european supervisory authorities, the passport system provides a secure and effective regulatory basis for the sector, whose expected role in the recovery of growth should not be underestimated. like the other elements of the financial sector reform programme, the directive also aims, more generally, to prevent or at least limit the scale of a new financial crisis. the agreement which i hope will be as broad as possible between parliament and the council owes much, i should like to make it clear, to the determination of the european parliament and particularly its rapporteur, mr jean-paul gauzès, and to the substantive work they have done. mr gauzès, i would like to thank you for your willingness, your commitment and your determination, without which the adoption of this directive in the european parliament would probably not have been possible. mr president, i would also like to thank mrs sharon bowles, chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we had many discussions in trialogue meetings and other forums about this directive, and also about other texts. it was useful because it proved that it is possible to have a codecision process on one condition, namely that it is possible to start negotiations at the same time, with the council on one side and parliament on the other. thank you very much for your ability to organize that in parliament. it is not easy in the council, and i am sure it is not always easy either with all the members of parliament. mr president, i would like to thank the swedish and spanish presidencies, commissioner michel barnier, who has just joined us, and all the fictitious rapporteurs, mr robert goebbels, mr wolf klinz, mr pascal canfin, mr syed kamall and finally mr klaus-heiner lehne, for the fruitful and obviously constructive discussions which led to the amended text, which will be put to your vote. there will now be a secure and harmonised framework at eu level for controlling and monitoring the risks posed by alternative investment fund managers to their investors and to financial stability. i am convinced that the determination to achieve that inspired us will continue to drive the negotiations on the next texts. every time i come to your house, mr president, i thank you for the work we have just done, but i thank you already for the work we are going to do in the weeks ahead. i hope, mr gauzès, that we can work together at the same pace and on the way to an agreement on the matter of the rating agencies. on behalf of my successors in the council presidency and in the light of the recent negotiations, i am confident that we will make progress on this issue, and perhaps on others in the future. the appointment's already made. in any case, thank you for the work you did on this text. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. - mr president, i should like to begin by apologising to the members for being a few minutes late. the belgian presidency is so dynamic that, at the very moment when this important debate is taking place here on the aifm directive, we are having a debate in the competitiveness council on another important subject, namely the european patent, and so i left the council to return to it earlier, i do not yet know under what conditions, but i am doing what i can. i can't divide myself beyond what's reasonable. jean-paul gauzes, whose beliefs i know but who i could not listen to, will forgive me. i would like to thank and congratulate him, as well as all the coordinators and the fictitious rapporteurs, and of course - didier reynders has just spoken - the belgian presidency and his whole team, for the very important, very tenacious work that has been done over the last few weeks, before him, by the other presidencies. we have been discussing this for some 15 or 18 months now and we are very close, with the vote of parliament, to a reasonable agreement. parliament is meeting today to debate it and tomorrow to decide. this vote in plenary, ladies and gentlemen, will take place on the eve of the g20 summit in seoul, and it is a good opportunity to demonstrate our ability to act together, to achieve common objectives, and also to implement the decisions taken in the wake of the crisis - and this crisis is not yet over in terms of its financial, economic, human and social consequences - the decisions taken at the highest global level of the g20. and after the agreement on the supervisory package, which we also owe to the commitment of parliament and the tenacity of the belgian presidency, the agreement on this aifm directive must demonstrate this capacity to learn from the crisis, to put smart regulation, effective supervision where they need to be put, so that all financial players are subject to this regulation and supervision which is both sound and effective. the member states, as mr reynders said, unanimously agreed to this last proposal. this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, i mean it as i think it, would not have been possible without the contribution of parliament which has significantly improved the proposals we were discussing. the text now contains, thanks to the determination of jean-paul gauzès, the fictitious rapporteurs, many new elements compared with the text initially adopted by the ecofin council in may, and these contributions to parliament really improve the quality of this proposal for a directive. i would like to mention by telegram some of the points which we regard as positive and of high quality. first, the strengthening of the rules on private equity which will increase the transparency of these activities vis-à-vis the employees of the target companies and introduce - as many of you have wished, although i know some of you feel that this does not go far enough - strong safeguards against asset stripping. secondly, a genuinely european solution for third countries. this solution based on the 'same rules, same rights' approach has always been supported by the commission and it ensures, in the long run, that all managers active in europe will be brought into compliance with european rules. thirdly, a leading role for esma in this mechanism which will strengthen the consistency of the oversight of managers and the functioning of european and third country passports. fourthly, additional strong rules that will protect investors and markets. i would mention in this connection the limits on leverage, additional own funds, professional insurance for managers and the rules on the role and liability of depositaries. the commission shares your concern about the lack of rules on passive marketing. this loophole could be a way to circumvent our rules, and that's why we have the same concern. however, the member states have almost unanimously opposed any regulation in this area and we are prepared, in a spirit of compromise, to accept the current text, provided that this matter is reviewed, that a directive is agreed in due course, and we will see to that. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank parliament once again for its decisive cooperation and contribution on this matter, and i hope, as did didier reynders, that we can reach the broadest possible agreement on this compromise, which for us remains a dynamic compromise and which allows us to keep one of the commitments made at the g20 to learn from the financial crisis.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the directive on the regulation of alternative investment funds is another important step towards a new and more stable financial market architecture in europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. this is a very heterogeneous sector with different types of funds, risk profiles and investment strategies. the commission's proposal for a directive was not an easy one to work out, but we have now found a common compromise which does not put all funds and all fund managers on the same footing and at least in principle follows a differentiated approach according to systemic risk. we are now setting uniform standards for the licensing of fund managers throughout europe. we will also hold professional investors and custodians accountable. with additional regulations on private equity, we're putting a stop to the looting of portfolio companies. it is not justified to denounce the private equity sector per se, as it plays an important and constructive role, for example in the financing of smes. we will now avoid negative examples by preserving the substance of the company, especially in the critical first years after the acquisition. the greatest achievement of parliament is certainly the introduction of the common eu passport, not only for european but also for non-european fund managers. the latter will only have access to the european market if the exchange of information between the supervisory authorities is guaranteed by a cooperation agreement. the european securities supervisory authority will also be able to intervene in the event of an emergency, which means that the new legislation will be a first. we cannot draw on experience, especially on the subject of third country regulation, but i think that a good starting point for a strong supervisory framework has been found.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not after lengthy negotiations, parliament, the council and the commission finally agreed on a common text on the regulation of alternative investment fund managers. i welcome that, and i have to correct my colleague robert goebbels: we wanted to send back the original proposal because we believed that the alternative investment funds are so different - hedge funds, private equity and real estate funds - that they each require their own regulation. we have now a text which we can sign and support without a trace. the overall approach which initially disturbed us has been changed in essential respects. we don't have a problem with that. the aim of the directive was to create more transparency for the supervisory authorities, but above all for investors, so that systemic risks could be detected in good time and at an early stage and thus be dealt with accordingly. i am personally in favour of rules to be followed by all fund managers operating in the eu. but at the same time i do not believe that we are turning europe into a fortress or even a prison and that institutions seeking european investment cannot be attracted outside europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the compromise we have now reached solves this problem. he's still promising open markets. another reason for our initial opposition was the private equity rules, which would have led to a real distortion of competition. the private equity requirements, as originally formulated, would have put even publicly listed companies at a significant disadvantage. the compromise text now before us removes this deficiency and prevents something which we expressly welcome asset stripping. so overall we are very satisfied with the proposal. it creates a clear framework and rules for the alternative investment fund managers. it provides greater transparency in the identification of systemic risks. it's used to provide stability. it strengthens the internal market by introducing the eu passport, which will also be available to non-european managers after a transitional period. it ensures that competition is clear and not distorted. finally, it creates a clear new role for the european supervisory authority esma. i would like to conclude by thanking not only my colleagues but also the belgian presidency of the council, whose tireless efforts have made this a success.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this regulation for alternative investment fund managers brings a measure of transparency and rules into the opaque thicket of hedge funds and alternative investment funds for the first time. unfortunately, these rules have remained incomplete. it is still possible to enter the common market with unregulated products through passive distribution. in fact, market access for these products is not effectively restricted. europe has missed an opportunity to extend its rules internationally and to achieve a uniform regulation. secondly, unfortunately, contrary to parliament's wishes, there has been no effective debt brake at european level for the funds. it is still only up to national rules to limit the amount of debt that the funds can borrow, and that means that the consequences of the crisis are not being drawn at this point. there will be a national race to the bottom in regulation. what is crucial for us again is that the looting of companies by private equity funds is not effectively avoided either. of course, there are private equity investments that make sense for companies. but the rules that have been set are not enough. the information rights of workers, who rightly expect it, and the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises against this form of exploitation are also ineffective. that is why it is very difficult to justify this to the electorate in this case. unfortunately , it 's like this: the responsibility for this lies not with parliament, but with the intensive lobbying of the relevant sector, successfully by the british government, the french government and, unfortunately, also by the german government, and we had a representation of these lobbies in parliament in the form of the liberal group. we cannot agree to this proposal because it would set a precedent for parliament's failure to enforce effective rules. we cannot stand before our electorate with our heads held high and say that we have succeeded in effectively regulating this shadow kingdom. we hope that we will then be able to move forward with the revision of the directive. i would like to thank you again, especially for your cooperation with my colleagues in parliament.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to make two comments. the first point is directed at jean-paul gauzès. i would like to thank him specifically for the good work and cooperation. i also found the cooperation with the other shadow reporters to be very good and constructive. i want to put this forward before i go into the critical remarks. i can basically record and underline what sven giegold has already said: the first compromises we agreed in the committee on economic and monetary affairs in may of this year could have been my own. i also included them in the decision. but what has emerged now and in subsequent negotiations is also no longer acceptable to my group, and i cannot support it. i feel that everyone is entitled to present his point of view, but i think the council has played an unfortunate role here. i would like to say this a little more clearly than has been said elsewhere: i feel that the council has missed an opportunity here. it has bowed to the financial market lobby to a considerable extent and has used all its resources to oppose effective regulation at european level. i got a call one morning from a lobbyist who said, "if you really want to regulate private equity like this, you're going to ruin development aid in africa". the commission has already made a number of proposals. that's not the same thing! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly. on the part of parliament - i would like to emphasize this again - jean-paul and other colleagues have fought for effective regulation. this was a council-sponsored subversion. it's passive marketing, i'll say that again. it's a point sven has already raised. this is similar to the situation where someone is forbidden to sell rotten eggs at the weekly market if he advertises them. but if he doesn't advertise the rotten eggs and just stands there and sells them, then it's obviously legitimate. it is not otherwise, as has been arranged here in the section on passive marketing. this is an opening. we have said that, and i think that is good, that we have a european regulation. but if it can be exploited at this point with loopholes, with open doors, then the question arises as to how far this european regulation really goes. private equity was originally better regulated. they have now been relatively weakly regulated. a very important point - again i can only emphasize what sven giegold said - is the question of informing the workforce. the original compromise was that managers were obliged to inform the workforce of what they intended to do with the business in which they had invested. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. you can imagine what that will do. it's not gonna be much. the council has missed an opportunity here, and i hope that we can perhaps make up for it elsewhere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have to say that when i listen to this debate, it reminds me very much of the debate on the services directive. i'll tell you why. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget. that is the truth about this regulation which we are voting on tomorrow. in fact, the improvements achieved vis-à-vis the council and the commission are largely due to robert goebbels and mrs regner, who have made improvements here against the resistance and - i thank jean-paul gauzès - for his support and his good cooperation. in my country, in germany, what we have agreed here on the private equity industry will bring real improvements for workers, it will bring real improvements for the medium-sized enterprises, which will no longer have to fear being eaten by the black sheep of the private equity industry, which do not adhere to standards. when we read and hear in the press these days that the fund industry is moving away from the caribbean and towards europe because long-term investors are concerned that there are good products to invest in, that speaks for the work of this parliament and not against it. but before we get too dynamic, ladies and gentlemen, please, please, my group has been calling for a regulation since 2002. there may have been some momentum, but only in the last few weeks. i thank the president of the council, i thank the commissioner, because you have personally ensured that this dynamic is maintained. that has to change. that is the appeal of this parliament!
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to present to you officially in this house the communication on the single market act adopted by the commission on 27 october and to discuss it with you in this chamber, as we have already begun to do, at the instigation of mr malcolm harbour and mr louis grech, in another room yesterday, but with several hundred european and national political, regional, economic and social actors. this is an important document. it is important, ladies and gentlemen, because we believe that europe is facing challenges from many sides. it is called upon from outside in the context of crises. the financial crisis, which has been unprecedentedly violent for two years and which still has many economic, social and human consequences in all our countries, is a major factor in the economic crisis. the economic crisis in general, and then the crises that we must not forget, even if we talk less about them, such as the food crisis. nearly a billion people are in danger of dying because they do not have enough food or water. and then there is the ecological crisis, which is probably the deepest. we must respond to these calls, but in addition to these external calls there are also internal calls, and the most important is probably that of the european peoples who do not understand, who are often worried, sometimes angry, and who keep a distance, who call us, with this great market which is the foundation, the first foundation since 1950, the coal and steel community, this great european market which we are patiently building among ourselves. the question that citizens ask themselves, that small and mediumsized businesses ask themselves, is what does this big market bring us? what does europe bring us? this question must be answered in the affirmative, which is not always the case. this is what mario monti has said, at the request of president barroso, in a report which you have discussed many times and which contains many useful diagnoses. i noted that of mario monti, who says that the single market is becoming more and more necessary and less and less popular. ladies and gentlemen, we are political men and women, each with his or her own responsibilities, and when we see this, we must try to make what is necessary popular and, in any case, supported and better understood. that is why, in the face of all these crises and all these questions, we wanted to give, as is our role, an operational follow-up to mario monti's diagnoses, and i would add to the consistent diagnoses that your parliament, under the leadership of louis grech, whom i thank, has also made of the imperfect or incomplete, sometimes disappointing, functioning of this great single market. and so the document we are presenting to you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, is an original document. it's not take it or leave it. it is an action plan, not a piece of legislation, an action plan which today includes 50 proposals which we are putting to the vote, all of which are aimed at making the single market work better for small and mediumsized businesses, for growth, and for citizens. this market is a means of growth and human progress, not the other way around, as i have often said. we have just been talking about the hedge fund and private equity directive; i mean, my strategy is extremely clear and i'm going to follow it in a very determined way for five years. as i told you on january 13th, we want and we will put the financial services and the financial markets that we need back in the service of the real economy, and not the other way around, and put the real economy and the big market that underpins it in the service of human growth and progress. we have in this growth strategy, which is consistent with the 2020 strategy, wanted the single market to work better. we must understand this single market as the basic platform of the european economy, and if this platform works better than it does today - that is the aim of this action plan - everything that will be put on it - private and public initiatives, local, regional, national, european initiatives, the actions of associations, of the various and varied bodies that are in this single market - will also work better, we are convinced. we are determined to meet these challenges by returning to the path of strong, sustainable and equitable growth with business. we are proposing a number of measures to help innovation and small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. in this single market act, there is the great question of the patent which we are debating at this very moment. that is why my day was a little complicated, madam president, at the competitiveness council, under the authority of the belgian presidency. more generally, we want to make the whole regulatory and tax environment for businesses more fluid, as well as access to the necessary finance to support their investments. finally, as regards strengthening european competitiveness, we want to strengthen our external strategy in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit. in order to put europeans at the heart of this single market, the commission wants to show that this market is not opposed to the development of services of general interest and major infrastructures. we shall have a communication which will no doubt be supported, increased and improved by parliament's contributions, a communication on services of general interest and public service. we want to show that the single market respects the social rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, that it can offer new development prospects for socially innovative enterprises that serve europeans as workers as well as consumers. and finally, it's the third chapter of the single market act. this comprehensive approach will only make sense through better governance, through strengthened dialogue and partnership with our companies, with our fellow citizens, but also between the european institutions, with the member states and regional or local authorities, and through strengthened social dialogue. our conviction, throughout the work we have been undertaking with you, is that to meet the challenge of competitiveness, to meet the challenge of growth that europeans expect, every citizen is needed and every business is needed. every community is necessary. you must understand the meaning of the european public debate which we are going to open for four months with you, several commissioners, 13 of us have worked on this single market act which was approved by the european commission after long normal debates. we are putting this debate at the top of our agenda and we are debating these 50 proposals. we will be very attentive to what the various institutions and our various partners have to say, and at the end of this debate, probably in february, we will draw up the final list of our commitments, on which the commissioners concerned will in fact commit themselves to deliver proposals within two years at the most, so that in 2012, when we talk about the 20th anniversary of the single market, 20 years after the commitments, jacques delors' proposals, this anniversary will not be marked by nostalgia or melancholy - there is no place at this moment for nostalgia - but on the contrary by a proactive and dynamic anniversary. that is why today we are starting, as we did yesterday. for four months, you will find me and my colleagues available to lead this european public debate which the european parliament is starting today and to participate in it in a constructive and very attentive way.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have already discussed this week at the so-called internal market forum the european commission's proposal to achieve a highly competitive social market economy in europe. we are all concerned with the three concepts of competitiveness, social and market economy and we expressly welcome the fact that the commissioner responsible for the internal market, michel barnier, has succeeded in reviving the horizontal or, as louis grech has written in his report, holistic approach to the internal market that we wanted. we believe that this is a big step, but we also believe that further small steps are necessary to really complete the horizontal structure of this legislative project. the european parliament will do its best to ensure that this happens. the european parliament's efforts will only succeed if we are able to overcome the technical, institutional and political differences which such a legislative project entails. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and that's what we want. i am sure that the public consultation of citizens, of the stakeholders involved, can help to involve everyone in this legislative proposal and can give them the feeling that they can decide what this legislative proposal will ultimately become. the european parliament, mr barnier, will play its part in achieving these objectives. we want to revise the programme with 50 points, we want to set priorities, we want to help to involve all the committees of the european parliament, we want to achieve the institutional unity that such a law requires. in the end, ladies and gentlemen, we must come to the conclusion that everyone has a place in this single market and that we can all benefit together from cooperation in this single market. we want to show that by 2012 the 20th anniversary of the single market . we'll work hard for it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank you very much, commissioner barnier, for the work you have done. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european community. we find some of that in it, too. the commission has also been trying to take this holistic approach, which has not been as successful as we had imagined, but is on the right track. it is also very important that you make it clear that you are trying to make the social rights of citizens, which should be at the heart of european union legislation, a reality. however, i must say on behalf of my group that we have missed some things in the text, or have been too vague, or too simple, or too little. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're not gonna find that social clause. it is a commitment that we can be satisfied with that social impact assessments should be carried out. but a social clause is much more than what we find here in this text. and we're going to work to help you make progress in that direction, because that's very important to us. i also find another point very problematic, which has been very important to our group time and again: we are calling for a class action. we want class actions for citizens so that they can really assert their consumer protection rights. they announce, as the european commission, that studies will be carried out again. studies in this area have been under way for three years. i think it is time we got down to it and actually got a bill from you and not just another proposal to do a study to see how we go about it. you see, we have some things that can satisfy us, but some things not so much, and we will work hard with you, with the council, with the other colleagues from the other groups, to have a really good text at the end.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the single market, the world's largest in terms of economic power, has become the european union's key location advantage in the globalised age. this is why it is so important to counter protectionist tendencies and to continue to develop the internal market. in the face of over-indebted public budgets, europe has no choice but to strengthen its economy through structural reforms. since its creation in 1992, the single market has already generated additional growth of 1.85%. the implementation of the announced measures is expected to bring about a further growth of 2-4%. the 50 proposals put forward by the commission for the single market initiative can be divided into three categories: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. these include the creation of a fully functioning internal energy market to ensure affordable energy, which is particularly important for europe's economic and industrial location, then a european professional card and a european qualifications passport to facilitate mobility within the european union, which will be increasingly important in the future to maintain europe's competitiveness in a globalised world, and the strengthening of e-commerce through better management of copyright and new guidelines for the effective implementation of the services directive to create new jobs. secondly, there are also many proposals, but they are too vague to be assessed at this stage. we must therefore wait for the commission's specific proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. i don't know if we should go the american way. thirdly, the communication also contains proposals which, in my view, are counterproductive to strengthening the internal market, because they only burden companies with additional bureaucracy. so we must discuss the things that have been proposed. we're ready to go.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. what is the european innovation policy, what is the european research policy? if you ask yourself that question, and if you ask the citizen on the street, you would not get an answer. because it is not clear what european research, what european innovation, adds value. we therefore welcome the fact that commissioner geoghegan-quinn's proposal here defines the subject of innovation in the first place. what is innovation? innovation is making money out of knowledge, making a product, making a license. and this is new. i am glad that the commission is taking this approach. but we also need man on the moon or woman on the moon projects now, which are understood by the public outside, so that the eu taxpayer understands what we are doing here with his money. so i see great potential in adding two healthy years to life. it would be a project that everyone out there would understand. i am therefore pleased that the first innovation partnership proposed is dedicated to this very objective. two more healthy years of life, everybody understands that, that's what we should do. we support you in that. i would like to point out, however, and mrs merkies has already mentioned this: if we just look at the instruments that already exist - there is the eit, there are the kics, there are the jits, there is the competitiveness and innovation programme (cip), these are all programmes that already exist. adding another program will make the whole field unusable. we can't do that. the innovation partnerships should really help to bring order to this, to bring it all into a system, and that is why we would only accept it if the whole thing became clearer to the taxpayer. we must always understand: what is the added value of more europe? and if that's the case, then we're all behind it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to ask if the council would be extended its speaking time later in the evening. i think it is rather impolite for the council representative to speak here twice as long as mr barroso and mr van rompuy together, since we know that we have other important points to make. maybe you can limit yourself a little!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european commission is taking the right direction with the innovation union. i was very pleased to read that the european commission has responded to many of the calls made in the september 2010 innovation report, which was adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy. we agree that the european union needs to make much better use of its innovation potential in the future, not least to keep pace with the strong innovation countries such as the us and japan, and also with emerging economies such as china. but the innovation union will only succeed if it is implemented together with the member states and the regions. the commission is planning to do this, among other things, by means of the so-called innovation partnerships, which we are now discussing and which are the subject of our intergroup request. i would like to warn against creating a double structure here again. the idea of innovation partnerships is not yet clearly defined. the council's comments have not contributed to the final clarification either. the idea of innovation partnerships, however, has some similarities with existing instruments such as the technology platforms of the seventh research framework programme and the kics in the framework of the european institute of innovation and technology. i would point out that it is essential to ensure that synergies are created, that synergies are used and that a uniform approach is ensured.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not mr chastel began by saying: 'the osce is looking for a new dynamic. this parliament wants to help it to find that dynamic. the motion for a resolution which we have before us, which was drafted under the leadership of the vice-president, expresses a very progressive attitude towards the role of the osce, supported by a large majority in parliament. the osce has been given new impetus by various parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but we now need a clearer definition of the objectives of the corfu process. this is important for the summit that is now ahead of us. the three dimensions of the osce, in particular the office for democracy and human rights, should be strengthened. but we also want to take new steps. that is the valuable thing about this report. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. it would have been very positive, for example, in the case of kyrgyzstan, if we had had such an option and could have done something like that there, for example, together with russian partners. it is also suggested, for example, - as president rouček has already pointed out - that the corfu process should have as one of its objectives the drawing up of a common security charter in the osce area. this is a correct response to the russian side's attempts to create a new debate on common security in the euro-atlantic area. i am convinced that the osce will remain indispensable to the common euro-atlantic security architecture and i hope that we will be helpful in ensuring its success.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not my group welcomes the fact that after many years the european parliament is once again dealing in substance with the osce, and that it is giving a generally positive answer to the eu's relationship with it, with the objectives, values and mechanisms agreed in helsinki, but above all with regard to the tasks of today. your report, mr vice-president, makes it clear: the european union and the osce are not secret competitors but partners who can and must bring their own expertise and experience to bear on solving europe's complex problems. i would like to stress two aspects of astana. we need a pan-european debate in europe once again on the future of the security policy of our continent, which is larger than the eu and which is still characterised by major security imbalances. the corfu process offers the prospect of a structured debate and should be designed by the member states to achieve concrete results in the field of disarmament and arms conversion. just as the eu and the osce need each other in this area, so do the issues of climate change and energy demand increased structured cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. taiwan is put on the positive list, which means that taiwanese citizens can enter the european union without a visa. i'm happy for these people. but politics is about give and take. i would have liked taiwan to have given all european union citizens the same visa-free entry in return. this has not been the case to date. taiwan has merely stated its intention to implement this by the end of the year. i hope that this intention will be followed by action, and i also trust our rapporteur, who has put this forward, and i will support this motion as a whole. as i said, i hope that taiwan will also resolve the problem so that all citizens of the european union can also enter taiwan without a visa.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on employment and social affairs has given an important signal on demographic change. for the first time, a joint package for young and old will be put together. it's about generational justice as a new innovative approach. we don't think alongside each other, we think towards each other. in order to provide a stable basis for the discussion, member states should draw up generational balance sheets. this allows for a reliable mapping and forecasting of payment flows for the different years. it will be easy for the statistical offices to calculate the amount of tax revenue, social security contributions and pension payments. the generational check is intended to introduce for the first time a legal impact assessment on the intended effects and unintended side effects of the burden on the generations. it is to be made binding in all our member states and at eu level. we are also sending a clear signal to the european commission and council on pensions. we do not need a uniform european retirement age. the aim is to take account of the national age limits for entitlement to a pension. older workers must not be forced to leave employment against their will, for example because of arbitrary age limits. the ecj also rejected compulsory retirement from the age of retirement in its october judgment. retired people are very welcome to apply for open posts and are not disadvantaged on account of their age. we are calling for a european pact 50+ for our elderly citizens. three objectives are to be achieved by 2020. firstly, the employment rate of workers over 50 is to rise to more than 55%. secondly, early retirement and its financial support must be reduced throughout europe. thirdly, the member states should provide funds for people over 60 to enable them to remain in the labour market for longer. at the other end of the age scale are the young people. we are in favour of a european youth guarantee. the aim is to offer every young person a job, apprenticeship or other training after a period of unemployment of up to four months. the principle of 'promote and demand' applies here. but promotion is not a one-way street. if young people do not have sufficient qualifications, they should be given the opportunity to acquire them in order to be employable. i was very pleased to see that the european commission had already taken up one of the demands in my report. a few weeks ago, it declared 2012 the 'european year of active ageing'. it's the right signal at the right time. the only drop in the bucket is the decision by a majority in the committee to call for additional anti-discrimination rules. the aim is to set new criteria for older people in the areas of insurance, holiday booking and car rental. this only creates increased bureaucracy and a high financial burden, which does not meet the basic idea of effectively protecting people from exclusion. the epp group has therefore tabled an alternative motion for a resolution which does not contain this request. but we have agreed on the rest in the committee on employment. we have reached a broad consensus through a large number of joint proposals and 22 compromises. i thank the colleagues from other groups for their constructive cooperation. we can and will bring young and old together. i hope that with this report on intergenerational justice we have taken an important step together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr mann, on his excellent report. i think generational justice is an important characteristic of a developed society. in essence, this means nothing more than that no generation can and should live at the expense of another. what is logical and natural in private life and in the family is more difficult to represent in society. when the government borrows money that it cannot repay, it puts a burden on the next generation. the exploitation of natural resources harms the next generation. perhaps the best way to sum up this conflict is to say, "we only borrowed the earth from our grandchildren". i think that means that we must examine every law, every regulation, every directive, to see if it is also fair to the generations. the report is an important step in the right direction.
president of the court of auditors. − mr president, it is an honour for me to be able to participate in the debate today on the european court of auditors’ annual report on the implementation of the 2009 budget, which i have already presented to you and to the committee on budgetary control. i would like to present to the house the four key messages contained in this year’s annual report. first, the court concludes that the accounts of the european union give a fair presentation, and a true and fair view, of the financial position and the result of operations and cash flows. this is the third consecutive year the court has found the accounts to be free from material misstatements and reliable. as regards legality and regularity, the court gives an unqualified opinion on revenue and commitments, as in previous years. however, and this is the second key message of this year’s annual report, payments from the budget continue to be materially affected by error, except in two areas. those exceptions are administrative expenditure and economic and financial affairs. in all other areas of expenditure, the court found material levels of error. i will focus on the two main areas of expenditure: agriculture and cohesion. in the area of agriculture and natural resources, the court estimates the level of errors to be somewhat higher than in 2008. however, the results are consistent with the court’s assessment, in both years, that systems are only partially effective. the court recommends reducing the risk of error by improving the quality of information in the databases used for establishing entitlements and calculating payments, and by clarifying and enforcing rules on land usage and maintenance. in the area of cohesion, which represents almost a third of the budget, the situation remains that this is the only budgetary area where the estimated error is over 5%. most of the errors found relate to serious failures by national authorities to apply rules on public procurement and to the reimbursement of ineligible costs. many errors could, and should, have been detected and corrected by member states before certifying expenditure to the commission, as the audit shows they had the information to do so. if we analyse this year’s results and compare them to last year, we see that the most significant change is in cohesion. that brings me to the court’s third key message. the estimate for the most likely error in cohesion spending was significantly lower than in previous years, and for the budget as a whole the court’s estimate of errors has fallen over recent years. however, a degree of caution is necessary before drawing any conclusions about the trend in this area; due to variations in spending patterns, the population of payments can change considerably from one year to the other – 2009 being notably different from 2008. moreover, there is no guarantee that the overall fall in the estimated error rate over recent years will continue, so long as the systems covering the vast majority of disbursements remain only partially effective. that brings me to the last key message. the information provided by the commission on recoveries and other corrections is not yet completely reliable and cannot be meaningfully compared with the court’s estimated error rate. there are a number of initiatives before us which provide an important opportunity to improve the financial management of the european union. this year’s annual report confirms the conclusions and the recommendations set out in the court opinion on the risks and challenges for improving the financial management of the european union. improving the quality of spending should be a high priority. simplifying the legislative framework and introducing more cost-effective control systems to reduce the risk of errors should contribute to this goal. earlier this year, the commission presented a draft recast financial regulation. in its recent opinion on this, the court concludes that it contains a number of proposals that provide opportunities for the commission to improve transparency and financial management. simplification of sectoral legislation remains, however, an important route to a significant improvement in the quality of spending. next year, the commission will present legislative proposals for policies and programmes covering the main areas of expenditure in the next programming produced. when revising expenditure programmes, the court suggests applying a set of principles to ensure that european added value is likely, that the objectives are clear, that the schemes are as realistic and simple as is reasonably possible, and that accountability is also clear. ensuring the european funds are spent optimally places heavy responsibilities on all of us: on the commission, when proposing legislation and implementing the budget; on the member states in managing, day-to-day, some 80% of the european budget; on parliament and on the council as legislator and as the discharge authority; and on the court as the union’s external auditor. the court looks forward to playing its full part in efforts to ensure that the funds are spent correctly and are spent well.
member of the commission. − mr president, two days ago president caldeira and i already had the opportunity to exchange our views and to discuss the court’s annual report with the members of the committee on budgetary control. i would like here to outline the main points of the discussion and the very first conclusions. before entering the heart of the matter, i would like to recall the fruitful dialogue between the auditor, the court and the audit team in the commission and to thank president caldeira for this excellent cooperation. i am pleased with the court’s recognition of progress made; i see indeed many positive messages; i also see some criticism and it is the commission’s commitment to closely follow up on all the court’s recommendations. the main messages of the court’s report are key for the commission’s own assessment of the way it assumes its responsibility in managing the eu budget. firstly, for the third year in a row the annual accounts have received an unqualified positive opinion. the court has evaluated the eu accounts as giving a true and fair view without any reservation. the commission is of course very satisfied with this result as it confirms the lasting effects of our accounting reform. however, the court rightly highlights certain weaknesses. while none of these affects the court’s unqualified opinion, the commission is determined to address these weaknesses and therefore continues to improve its day-to-day accounting practices. with regard to the legality and regularity of transactions i am pleased that the positive trend in the reduction of the overall error rate continued in 2009. revenue and commitments for the entire budget are legal and regular in all material respects. more than 95% of payments made from the eu budget are free from error. this verdict is a positive sign that our efforts to further improve control are having a concrete impact. this has been achieved mainly thanks to a substantial reduction of the error rate in cohesion; this progress reflects the commission’s enhanced supervisory role through the ex-ante assessment of management and control systems of the member states. it also reflects the merits of a rigorous approach in either interrupting or suspending payments where problems were identified. finally, in its report the court recognises the higher quality of the information about recoveries provided by the commission, as disclosed in the accounts. the increase in the value of funds recovered from projects where errors were found or from national authorities responsible is indeed another sign of this commission’s determination. however, i share the court’s view that the member states’ reporting is not yet satisfactory and the commission will pursue its efforts to remedy this situation for the existing programmes, and also for the next generation of programmes and the shared management. i fully share the caution of president caldeira when he warns of possible oscillations of the error rate, in particular in cohesion, in the future. i also agree with the court when it points out the weaknesses of the member states’ systems and some other issues in shared management. in my view, the way forward includes the design of cost-effective control mechanisms; the simplification of eligibility rules where their complexity is an obvious source of errors; and the improvement of the quality of the information provided by the member states regarding financial corrections and recoveries. but this list is not exhaustive; our discussion on tuesday showed that there are other challenges before us, for instance a greater accountability for the key financial actors, in particular the member states, and a cost-effective control policy based on risk and performance. moreover, in preparing the budget review i have promoted the new focus on impact rather than input through the definition of clear and measurable objectives and key performance indicators. i presented last may my agenda on discharge, audit and anti-fraud for 2010-2014 in the budgetary control committee of this house. this agenda outlined the key strategic objectives and concrete steps which the commission will take to move further towards a positive court statement of assurance. in the light of the court’s 2009 annual report, this agenda remains fully relevant for our future actions. to conclude, i am pleased that the 2009 annual report corroborates that our efforts bear results. it constitutes an important and timely input to our reflection on how to achieve a more effective and efficient financial management of the eu budget which should guide us in preparing the next generation of programmes.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! today is a very positive day, because for the first time we can really count on the barroso ii commission to actually cross the 2% barrier. we don't need the tolerable risk so much. the court of auditors' report is therefore certainly very good news, especially for all those who work on this site. we see that once the commission is really determined to get behind it, it will produce results. if we now examine these results in some detail, it is certain that part of it is linked to a change in regulation. i am sure that is the case, and that is the way we must go in the future. if the commission could push through a revision of the public procurement directive and put forward a real simplification for the administrations of the member states, then this would certainly be the biggest step forward towards a positive declaration of assurance that we could take. i would like to say to all those who always claim that the european budget is facing really great dangers that european money is certainly somewhat more rigorously controlled than national money. it is more rigorously controlled and accounted for than some national currencies. we always see this when we travel in the member states, because national rules exist in the first place thanks to european rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the court of auditors, but i also want to say that i am disappointed with this annual report. i have already said that the annual report contains much less information than before. we need to know the error rates. we have always received them in the structural funds, but for the first time this year we have not. we are not in kindergarten, but we as a parliament are dependent on having this data. and if i review the hearing of the members of the court of auditors in my mind's eye, it also promised us that we would work closely with parliament. i don't see that promise being kept.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to thank the court of auditors for the report. the work of your office, mr caldeira, is an indispensable service to the european taxpayer. the good news is that the positive trend in the reduction of the error rate continues this year. this is also the result of the reform of the commission, initiated at that time by the liberal commissioner, mr kallas. the year-on-year improvement in the cohesion area was marked by a large improvement and a slight deterioration in the agricultural sector. the commission should not, however, sit back now. we need to be clear that the enormous improvements are associated with extremely happy samples. i am therefore afraid that the positive trend will not continue next year. we should use the momentum of the first budgetary discharge under the auspices of the lisbon treaty to initiate a decisive paradigm shift. let me make this clear again: this year's report is the 16th in a row from the court of auditors, which still does not give an overall positive verdict. so how can we finally put an end to the inefficient and wasteful allocation of funds and their politically willed toleration? my suggestions as rapporteur: firstly, the commission must take even stronger action in the event of obvious errors and suspend appropriations in the event of a repetition. how is it that a long-standing member state such as greece has not been sanctioned for ten years despite its apparent breach of invekos rules? secondly, the taxpayer must not be punished twice. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules. the member states contribute half of the national budget, according to the 50:50 rule. the taxpayer is being presented. let me give you some numbers. since 1994, member states have been wrongly paid a staggering €7.7 billion in cohesion policy funds up to 2006. this has just been published by the commission itself. only eur 709 million was repaid. that shows quite clearly the difference between these two conditions. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the court of auditors has confirmed this. thirdly, it is therefore necessary that all member states finally submit and sign national management declarations. fourthly, the commission must also be politically correct. that is why we want the signatures, at least of commission president barroso, on the annual activity report. however, we also want to see an evaluation report, which is what the lisbon treaty provides. there are some things that need to be improved. i would like to thank you very much for this report from the court of auditors.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask mr van dalen whether he has taken note of the fact that the high percentages mentioned are only the percentage of the sample. so we do not have 36% of the payments in error, but 36% of the payments in error in the sample, roughly at least 5% for the cohesion funds, that is the expenditure. the large sums of billions you mentioned are not accurate. have you taken note of that?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the area of cohesion policy is the patient of the eu budget. last year he was in the intensive care unit, this year he's in recovery, but he's not well yet, and the risk of a relapse is far from excluded. over 5% of all cohesion policy payments were incorrect, 3% should not have been paid. this amounts to some 700 million euros. a large proportion of these incorrect payments could have been prevented by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is despite the control systems now in place, each of which has been validated by the commission. we should take a closer look at these control systems. in my member state, germany, the samples showed that all the control systems tested were only partially effective. the commission shall be responsible for the management of the budget. we can discuss this contradiction - errors in the member states, responsibility in the commission - in our home countries, we can tell the media, we can tell the citizens. but politically it is the commission's job to enforce this on the member states. commissioner šemeta, put the reins on the wheel! you have us on your side!
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the author of the opinion of the committee on budgets on mrs van brempt's report, i can say that we in the committee on budgets very much welcomed this report. we have not only dealt with this in a domestic way, but also in a very small way in terms of content and have expressed a concern which kathleen van brempt has gratefully taken up. we are targeting this instrument at the municipal level. this is perfectly correct, because that is where the greatest efficiency gains are to be expected. but i come from a part of germany where the local authorities are not allowed to take on additional loans because they are over-indebted. this may be a specifically german problem in our local constitutions, but mr oettinger, as a former prime minister, knows the subject only too well. so we are in the situation in germany that those who are supposed to take this programme are not allowed to do so because the municipal administration forbids them to do so because of additional debts. we are very concerned about this. this may result in the program being ineffective on the spot. we have welcomed this programme and would be glad if it could be continued. we have asked for a separate budget line for this purpose and we would like to see the 15 million euros available in the agricultural policy, which cannot be called up because of the lack of a legal basis, also be allocated to this programme. the budget needs more flexibility here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have had funds available which should be invested, including in the energy sector. we have discussed this very intensively in committee and were not sure whether all the funds could be spent. the commissioner then made a promise to us to ensure that no funds would be left over or run backwards. the most important thing for me is that the commissioner kept his word. it has been relatively quick to present us with a proposal to ensure that the funds that would otherwise have been lost can be used for the energy sector. that was the first step. the second step was that mrs van brempt had succeeded - and for that she should be thanked - in bringing the colleagues in the committee together to find a solution, a compromise. it was not easy, because it is easier to just try to get your own head out of the box than to find a solution that in the end - because we were also under time pressure - ensured that funds could also flow and be used. last but not least, we have managed in the end - with the help of the council, too, to be honest - to find a compromise to secure all the funds for the energy sector, almost to the last euro, in the time needed to ensure that the funds do not run out. this was the most important thing for me, the most productive thing, and i would like to thank everyone involved for that.
member of the commission. - madam president, my answer will be in two parts, since the problem of the livestock sector is indeed linked first to the food situation, and therefore to the situation on the cereals market, and then i will also refer to the mechanisms at our disposal for the livestock sector. the commission is following very closely the situation on the cereals market and its impact on farmers. the price of cereals rose sharply during the summer due to weak supplies, particularly in the black sea countries. for example, we have seen the price of barley and oats go up to 200 euros per tonne. at present, although price volatility is high, the price level is still well below the price record of 2008. the rise in the euro against the dollar, which is making eu exports less competitive at present, is also a disruptive factor in the european market. at world level, despite the deficit in russia and ukraine, the level of cereals harvest is normal and stocks are being replenished thanks to the record harvests of the last two crops. in the european union, cereal production is estimated at an average of 276 million tonnes, and if the early-season stock is added, this gives a surplus of almost 60 million tonnes over forecasts for use. intervention stocks - mainly barley - currently amount to 5.6 million tonnes of cereals. a quantity of 2,8 million tonnes has just been set aside for the implementation of the 2011 programme for the most deprived and the remainder of this quantity will be put on sale in the near future on the internal market. the decision has already been taken and the product will be on the market at the end of this month. there has been a certain relaxation in the market since the commission announced this measure, which i recently announced to the council. as regards the situation on the cereals market, there is no need for any emergency measures in this sector because, as i have explained, this is not a problem of supplying cereals to the european market, since the high price of cereals on the european market is not due to a lack of supply on the market. the commission is following very closely market developments in the livestock sector, and in particular in the pig and poultry production sector. the margins in this sector are very dependent on the cost of food. prices in the poultry sector are above the long-term average and appear to at least partially offset the increase in feed costs. the price of pigs for slaughter follows the seasonal downward trend. it is very slightly below last year's level. production is currently well absorbed by the domestic market and exports. between june and august 2010, exports of pigmeat increased by 10% and those of poultry by 21% compared to the same period last year. consequently, despite these price problems, pig and poultry producers were still able to export for a certain period. the commission will of course continue to monitor developments on the market and, as soon as this proves necessary and useful, it will use the means at its disposal to intervene on the market. in fact, for the livestock sector, two measures are currently available: export refunds and private storage. as regards export refunds, this measure could not be effective at present given the fact that the world price is rather high; therefore, an export subsidy is not warranted. export problems may arise, as may a lack of competitiveness due to the dollar/euro ratio, but this is not a problem that affects the agricultural sector alone. we shall see how the dollar-euro exchange rate evolves, and depending on this, in the event of surpluses on the community market, we can then speak of private storage measures. at the moment there is no surplus of meat on the community market, which is why private storage measures are not justified at the moment, although i am prepared to analyse the possibility of using these measures in the light of market developments. as regards the issue of volatility, it will be addressed in the 2013 cap reform, where it is envisaged to propose mechanisms that do not currently exist to address the issue of income volatility. as regards the issue of transparency in the food chain, she is currently discussing with commissioner tajani how further clarification in this area could help to clarify the distribution of added value. these are the elements of the answer i can give at this stage.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the resolution we are debating today is intended to help set the right course for the european livestock sector. i would like to thank my colleague, esther herranz garcía, for this initiative. the aim of this request is not to isolate europe or to override market laws. the aim of this request is to demand fair market conditions for european livestock production so that food security for over half a billion people can also be ensured in the future. it is not possible that agriculture in europe should be confronted daily with new production rules down to the last detail, with farmers having to pass one expert certification after another and with high animal welfare and environmental protection standards being observed. in the case of agricultural imports, these restrictions do not seem to matter. i am therefore grateful to all the 534 members who agreed in strasbourg that agricultural imports must in future comply with european standards for consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection. we are prepared to give you full backing as a parliament. it is not possible that these standards do not play a role in imports, and that is why my group welcomes this proposal and we support it.
the commission has already done so. the crisis must be resolved, no question about it. but here, they offer models that we can't carry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of the region. we are 75% dependent on imports. this is not a state of affairs that we must urgently change. i also do not understand why some people are questioning the compromise that all the groups have negotiated and are now wanting to open the door wide for imports of soya beans. that's not the answer. we also need a debate in europe about what kind of animal husbandry we want. the crisis has again hit small businesses hardest. on the other hand, industrial livestock farming is developing in europe which is not animal-friendly, which is not fair in the agricultural sense. we must do something about that, too. one last point: i am very surprised that 450 million euros from this agricultural budget should be redistributed to iter, to nuclear fusion. i would like to hear the commissioner's answer on this, and what we have to say about it in the end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. a number of groups have argued that we should have something to say about the coordination of monetary policy after the fed had made its decision on the 600 billion dollars. we simply wanted to add as an addendum:calls on the united states in implementing its domestic monetary policies not to exacerbate the problem of the global balance of exchange rates. i think that would be a sensible remark, because it will certainly play a role at the summit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to add to what i said earlier that we should also mention monetary policy in the recitals. i think that is also a phrase that could be widely accepted here: whereas coordinated monetary policies should take a higher priority in the transatlantic partnership.
in writing. −generational justice is one of the key policy challenges of the coming years. especially as demographic change changes the conditions in our society, it is important that one generation does not live at the expense of the other. this applies not only to fiscal and budgetary policy but also to environmental, resource and climate protection. in order to ensure the cohesion of our society, it is important that we understand generational justice as a cross-cutting task. we must therefore examine our political decisions carefully in this respect. it is important that we pay attention to this issue in order to preserve the solidarity within our society in the future.
in writing. - mr mann has done a really good job on a sensitive subject as usual. that is why i agreed to the report. let me just quickly add one more aspect. as a member of parliament from saxony, a region heavily affected by demographic change, and as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy and rapporteur for the own-initiative report on the future of eu innovation policy, we must of course continue to fight demographic change at eu level and above all at member state level, and make regions more attractive to young people, in particular by increasing economic growth and job creation and by adopting appropriate education policies. but let me also emphasize the special importance of older workers for innovation, especially in smes. the eu is finally recognising that smes are not only innovative in terms of new technological inventions, but also in terms of specific adaptations of a product to the customer's specific needs, or improved service processes. in this area in particular, it is the older workers who have a wealth of experience and who are driving the company forward. this is another reason why it is essential to combat age discrimination in the workplace. the eu and its member states should never lose sight of this in all social and labour law projects.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on her multifaceted and very successful report. the rapporteur mentions many things that could be improved, particularly in terms of administrative simplification. i was very happy to agree to the report. i would like to add a brief point, which i am often asked about, especially by small and mediumsized enterprises in my own country: the question of languages. not all companies that are legitimately seeking european research funding and whose ideas have european added value have enough language skills to do so in english. the fp7 project submission guide tips for a successful application states: although it is possible to submit an application in any of the official eu languages, applications should always be submitted in english. in fact, no project has a chance if it is not submitted in english, even if, for example, the common working language of a consortium of companies is not english at all. in order to reduce the administrative burden on the beneficiaries of the support programmes, the commission should adjust the examination of project applications by its experts in such a way that, at least as a first step, the submission of project documents is possible in all three working languages of the commission.
in writing. − many livestock farms in the european union are in a difficult situation. this is mainly due to a sharp rise in the price of cereals and, therefore, of feedingstuffs. it is therefore important to take measures to help farmers emerge stronger from this difficult period. apart from the increase in the price of feed, two points are particularly important to me: 1.the high european product and safety standards that apply to our livestock farms must also apply to imported products intended for sale in the european union. this would reduce a major competitive disadvantage compared to producers in third countries, while guaranteeing a high quality of all products sold in the european union. 2.the aim is also to make agricultural policy simpler and more understandable. unnecessary regulations are time-consuming and, above all, costly and must therefore be eliminated. this would be a real relief for all farms in the european union. the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on agriculture contains many such good proposals to improve the situation of livestock farms in a lasting and sustainable way. i expect that these will be taken into account in the commission's future work.
in writing. the resolution adopted by the european parliament on the crisis in livestock farming calls for the introduction of new market control mechanisms in livestock farming and safety nets in all cereals sectors. i reject these market interventions. the resolution also contains important liberal demands for viable gmo thresholds for importing feed and a review of the ban on the feeding of animal meal. that is why i did not vote against the resolution but abstained in the final vote. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's farmers are not subject to unfair competition. for farmers, a market orientation of the agricultural economy also means that they take responsibility for themselves and cannot expect constant conservative intervention in the market from the political side. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the cap. for a functioning market we need a clear framework for agriculture as a whole and not for individual sectors alone.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agenda for tuesday will include six reports by mrs matera on the use of the globalisation fund for the netherlands. i rise to speak because i do not think it is correct that mr daul is attacked in the dutch press on this issue. mr daul raised the question, discussed by various group leaders in the conference of presidents, whether these reports should not be dismissed in the light of the budgetary debate. i would like to make two comments on this. firstly, we should keep these reports on the agenda. we should also pass it and transfer this money from the globalisation fund to the netherlands. secondly, the honourable member suggested this in a statement to the conference of presidents. if this is then brought to the attention of the public from the conference of presidents and you do not even have the opportunity to be questioned and to make your own statement on this, then you as the chairman of the political group in this conference of presidents must think carefully about what you can say then. that's the one point. the other point is that it is not the european parliament that is saying that money is being wasted here. it is part of the dutch government - not the whole of it - that is constantly claiming that money is being wasted in europe and that europe should therefore get less money. the matera reports show, on the contrary, that the money from this budget is being spent very responsibly and, in my opinion, in the netherlands on very important projects. the adoption of these reports shows that the criticism of this budget in the netherlands is unjustified. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would ask for mr ferreira's attention for a moment. we have had very intensive discussions on this subject in the conference of presidents and in the preparations for the conference of presidents. i would like to say on behalf of my group that we are very concerned about what is happening in western sahara. if the images we have seen are true, then this must not only be a serious debate, but also have consequences if necessary. but that's a good reason to be serious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the moroccan foreign minister has now agreed to join the foreign affairs committee at our request. he doesn't have to. the moroccan foreign minister does not have to appear before the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament. the fact that he is doing so, i think, should be used by us to confront him with the accusations and then to adopt a resolution. i think that is much more serious than passing a resolution now and then hearing him speak. let us adopt the resolution in the light of the information and the possibilities for questioning which the foreign affairs committee has with the moroccan foreign minister. i think that's the more serious approach. that was the consensus of all the groups until this afternoon.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already called for a little more calm, and perhaps one or two of our colleagues will be able to adhere to that. ladies and gentlemen, my report today deals mainly with the performance of the european central bank in 2009, i.e. during a period in which economic, financial and, increasingly, political action was largely dominated by the economic and financial crisis. the crisis, which was at first a purely financial crisis, spread and, in a second wave, affected the entire real economy. economic activity was declining worldwide, declining tax revenues and crisis-induced increases in social spending led to growing public debt. additional measures to stimulate the economy also contributed to the debt. this increased debt has led governments throughout the european union to enact far-reaching austerity measures. i believe that these packages were necessary and in some cases overdue. but they limited the capacity of the governments concerned to act. accordingly, despite the recovery in economic activity that began in the second half of 2009, the financial and economic crisis threatened to develop into a public debt crisis in 2010 in the course of a third wave. i think that danger is not yet overcome. the irish case has been a very clear reminder to us in the last few days that the problem of member states' over-indebtedness is far from being solved, and i agree with mr van rompuy on this point: the end of the euro is out of the question. but this is the situation today, and my report looks at 2009, and it can be said that the ecb has responded adequately, indeed well, to the challenges. their actions have proven to be successful across the board, saving many financial institutions from collapse. however, the liquidity provided by financial institutions was not always fully channelled into the real economy, and the full recovery potential of the measures was not fully realised. since these measures were exceptional steps, it is now essential that they be carefully planned and carefully phased out. the problems in greece and other euro countries may be partly of a domestic nature, but they have also highlighted fundamental problems of economic and monetary union. these principles of the stability and growth pact have been violated. we are now seeing the consequences, including in ireland. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the stability and growth pact needs to be strengthened and the economic and monetary union needs to be better balanced. the lack of integration of economic policies within the monetary union has in the past allowed for significant economic imbalances between euro area countries and left the euro area without the pre-defined crisis management mechanism. the euro area will have to resolve this imbalance to prevent a new crisis. however, the structural reform process, together with a revision of the fiscal framework, can ultimately strengthen the euro area. the issue of the independence of the european central bank will also be an essential aspect of a new economic governance, in particular with regard to the newly established european council on systemic risks. the european parliament will therefore continue to take its role of scrutinising the performance of the ecb very seriously. i am deeply convinced that the european union and the euro area can emerge from this crisis and even emerge stronger. but we must learn the right lessons in the coming months. this is a major challenge, but the european union has always shown that it has developed best when it has had to face challenges. the crisis is therefore also an opportunity which we should seize. in conclusion, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups for the very pleasant and constructive cooperation they have had with this report. i think that is not self-evident, but it should be emphasized here.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, we should like to thank mr balz for his cooperation. we have been able to make some suggestions to make the report even more balanced. the period 2009-2010 was marked by extraordinary measures taken by the european central bank, and in the light of these extraordinary economic developments, i would like to thank mr trichet once again for these measures, precisely because he did not have to impose them on the applause of his own party. the stability and growth pact has been seen as insufficient. we need instead an effective coordination of economic policy, which takes account not only of public but also of private debt and tackles economic imbalances, not only in the deficit countries but also in the surplus countries. we need a price orientation which looks not only at consumer prices but also at asset prices and their speculative and bubble developments. first of all, and we insist on this again and again, we need a framework for tax competition in the european union. it is not acceptable that we have massive austerity programmes on the expenditure side and countries on the revenue side continue to provide each other with unlimited tax competition. in particular, it is unacceptable, and it is not to communicate to the citizens, that in a situation like the one we are in now, we are rescuing ireland's banks, but at the same time we are not making sure that the scandalously low corporate tax rate of 12.5% is corrected to a european standard of 25%. in this sense, we should really speak clearly and clearly to each other here. i would also ask mr trichet to respond to two requests in the report: in paragraph 21 on the question of transparency and in paragraph 39 on the acceptance of guarantees. you haven't addressed that yet. i would be glad, on behalf of all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, if you could give us some more concrete information.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank mr balz for his cooperation. i can only emphasize that, despite our different positions, it was a good cooperation. many people thought - and i want to emphasize this again - that the eurozone crisis was over. ireland shows that this was not the case. europe continues to surrender voluntarily to the financial markets. the eu member states must continue to sell their sovereign debt on the financial markets and gain the confidence of speculators by committing suicide savings. we had to watch where it led again this weekend. this time it was not the supposedly all-defrauding greeks, but the model pupil ireland who was driven into the european bailout funds to save its banking system, which also for a long time was considered exemplary, exemplary deregulated. meanwhile, the financial sector is already poised to surrender portugal, whose interest rates are rising. the ecb has a share of responsibility in this drama. it has failed and is failing to offer a civilized alternative to the state casino by issuing eurobonds. while half of europe is recovering from the crisis, the ecb is calmly watching as the other half continues to plunge into poverty and insecurity. the bankruptcy of entire economies may be to the liking of the european fund and banking giants, but it does not help ireland, monetary union and the ecb. mr trichet, do not listen to mrs merkel's simple financial abc. if you want to save economic and monetary union, do not leave european government bonds hanging in the air. introduce eurobonds before the next victim of speculation is found. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i have to say, madam president, it's hard to tell, i have to admit. i can't say this out of the blue. there is no doubt that this is a difficult situation, but i think that the situation has also developed to the point that a rethinking may be necessary. i'm afraid i can't answer the question from the standpoint of the question.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that the european central bank's main task is to ensure monetary stability and that you can best achieve this objective by being politically independent. we've always supported you in that. the crises of the last two years have shown that you have another task, namely to ensure the stability of the financial markets and the financial system. you have also done this task very professionally and convincingly. but they have only been able to see it in close cooperation with the governments of the countries concerned. that means that here you could not act politically completely independently, but you had to cooperate with the governments. i would like to know how you intend to define this role in the future, to ensure that you are independent on the one hand, and on the other hand that you continue to fulfil your role and that governments do not use this opportunity to undermine your independence de facto.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for a very responsible debate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. that is largely true, and it will be true this time too, also in the short term, when we have to act as a fire brigade to stop the fires that we have at the moment that threaten the financial stability of europe. at the same time, we are seeking to build a longer-term european architecture which will really strengthen economic union and complement the strong monetary union already in place with a strong and genuine economic union, that is, to achieve the original objective of achieving economic and monetary union. both are important, we cannot afford to neglect either, and we must constantly act as a fire brigade to stop these fires and at the same time build a new european architecture for better regulation of the financial markets and for a better functioning of the economic union. ireland is in trouble. the member state of the isle of man knows well that we have a saying in finland: 'help a man on the hill, not under the hill'; this applies equally to women. it is very important that we all keep our heads and our hearts cool and try to support ireland in her time of trouble. it is not just for the sake of ireland itself, but also for the sake of the stability of the european economy, so that we do not allow the growth of the economy, which is still in its infancy, to suffer from this situation. it is important that we create the conditions for the european economy to grow in a sustainable way and that we are able to take better care of employment. that is what this is about: sustainable growth and employment in the european economy. i want to thank you for the substance of the debate and indeed i agree with mr gauzès that yes, we need to explain better why we are doing what we are doing, and we have to reassure our citizens. these are tough and confusing times. they are prone to nervousness and misinformation, and therefore we all need to do our share in communicating properly on the challenges. here the european parliament and all of you, as citizens' representatives, have a key role to play. it is not about finding someone to blame: it is about strengthening the european construction that has protected european citizens from much worse consequences. any talk of deconstruction of the european project is irresponsible. all the member states would have been in a much more difficult situation without the european union and its protective shield. the euro is and continues to be the cornerstone of the european union; it is not only a technical monetary arrangement, it is indeed the core political project of the european union. therefore it is indeed essential that we do our best, do our utmost, to protect and reinforce this european construction. president trichet is better placed to testify on that than i am because he was there then, but i would tend to agree, and that is why in our legislative package, which is now in your hands and in the hands of the council, we want to supplement the strong monetary union by finally creating a genuine and strong economic union. to my mind, it is indeed now high time in the emu to fill the e with life, and that is what the legislative package on reinforcing economic governance in the end is about. member of the commission. (in response to mr de rossa, who had spoken with the microphone off.) madam president, as you well know, i am ready to meet with the irish meps to discuss issues related to ireland, but no matter how important and difficult the situation in ireland is at the moment this debate is about the ecb and parliament's report on the ecb. there have been so many questions during this discussion concerning ireland that it is simply not possible to respond to all of them. as i said, i am ready to meet with the irish meps and i hope i can meet with all of you tomorrow so that we can discuss this more precisely.
president of the ecb. - may i ask the president-in-office to allow me to speak? i would first like to say that the questions that have been asked are extremely relevant and cover a very comprehensive range of issues that are important today. i will respond simultaneously to the members of parliament because a number of your questions converged. first of all, i would like to reiterate: we are responsible for the m of emu, the monetary union. we have a feeling about the e, economic union, but we are responsible for the m and what we have been instructed to do by the people of europe, by the parliaments that voted the maastricht treaty, is to deliver price stability. this is our mandate. we are independent to deliver price stability to 330 million fellow citizens. as i explained a moment ago, we have delivered price stability in line with our definition, which was in the continuity of the best definition in the world, and let me say that our definition of price stability now appears to be the global benchmark. we have delivered price stability over the nearly 12 years of the euro and we are credible for the next ten years according to all the information we have. so i want that to be very clear, because as olli rehn said many of the questions i have are questions that deal with the economic union, which is of course part of emu but we are not responsible ourselves for economic union. we have our ideas; we have our recommendations, we have our diagnosis and analysis and i will come back to that of course. my second major remark: we are experiencing the worst crisis since world war ii at a global level. had we both the central banks, including the ecb, and governments not reacted quickly and boldly, we would have experienced the worst crisis not since world war ii, but since world war i, because we would have had a great depression and this fact that we have avoided the great depression at global level has called for immense action by governments and parliaments. in our own analysis, the taxpayer risk that has been mobilized to help avoid a dramatic depression is approximately the same on both sides of the atlantic in terms of gdp, approximately 27% of gdp. it was not, of course, used in terms of spending, it was even less used in terms of losses, if i may say, but nevertheless it is an immense effort that has been made. otherwise we would have had a dramatic crisis. of course this means that the global finance and the global economy is extremely fragile and we have to find ways at a global level to avoid this fragility. but this is not a european crisis. it's the repercussion on europe, on european governance, of a global crisis, and there's exactly the same kind of meditation and reflection on what to do in the us or in japan, to mention only two other major advanced economies. they also have problems of the first magnitude and i would like us not to turn what is a legitimate reflection on how to run major advanced economies better into a criticism of the euro, which as i said has delivered exactly in line with what was expected. let me also say that when i look at the financial and fiscal position, the fiscal position of the major advanced economies, i can say that europe as a whole and the eu area in particular is in a better situation than japan or the us in terms of public financial deficit. perhaps something like around 6%, even a little bit less, as a consolidated fiscal position next year, when it is of the order of magnitude of ten or more in the two other major advanced economies. i say that also for us to have an idea of the order of magnitude. so what we have is bad behavior on the part of a number of countries that are creating problems in their own country and are creating financial instability. it is not the euro which is at stake; it is financial instability driven by bad behaviour of fiscal policies, of course with the interaction with markets which is always there, as we are in market economies. again, fundamentally our diagnosis is that what was abnormal in the functioning of europe was that we had poor governance, poor governance of the economic union. i can say, sadly, that this is not surprising because the stability and growth pact has been wrongly criticised by some since the very beginning. and i have to remind you that i myself was reporting in parliament on our battle because major countries wanted to blow up the pact, or at least to considerably weaken it. sadly, i have to say that this was the major countries within the euro area and that the small and medium-sized countries were resisting this trend. this was in 2004 and 2005. you will remember it was a fierce battle because it went up to the court of justice, and the commission - and i have to pay tribute to the commission - was lucid, more lucid at the time than the council, and we were fully supporting the commission. so i have to remind all of you of that. now i have had a number of questions on precisely what we are calling for at this stage. i have to say that we already said, when the commission made its proposal, that we thought it was not enough. taking into account what we feel, taking into account what we see, in the functioning of europe as a whole, the 27 and the 16 (and tomorrow 17), we considered that the first proposal of the commission was too weak in terms of automaticity and in terms of rigour of the governance, both for the fiscal surveillance and for the competitiveness indicators, the imbalances. so to the extent that the present state of the proposal which is being made by the council is even weakening the commission proposal, we cannot say anything to you, honourable members of parliament, but that we trust that we are up to the demands of the situation; and the demands of the situation are that we need very strong surveillance, very strong governance. in 2005, on behalf of the governing council, i said that we were not at all satisfied with what was at the time the council's position and what was finally accepted. so i do not want to go further because we will have a number of occasions to be in contact with parliament. i have of course noted what mrs goulard said in terms of very hard work of parliament, together with the council and the commission, to work out what will finally be the position of europe. but again our message is very clear on that. now let me turn for just one minute to the issue of communication. we have of course to permanently improve our communication. we try to do that. let me just say that as far as our own communication is concerned, we are giving the clear definition of price stability which allows everyone to judge what we are doing permanently in real time. i would also like to say that we were the first big major central bank to introduce press conferences immediately after the governing council. we were the first to publish an introductory statement which is our diagnosis of the situation. so we try to be as accountable in terms of communication as possible. the only thing that we do not do is to publish the individual position of the various members of the governing council. we believe that it is very important that for the institution which is issuing a currency for 16 states that are united in europe but are still sovereign states, it is better that it is the governing council as a whole which appears to be the relevant entity in terms of our decision. now there were a number of very important questions. let me just mention the remark that we are responsible for the m, but to the extent that the e is in the hands of the governments and the commission, we have in this domain of course to take into account the e, as always, as any independent central bank does: if the fiscal policy is sound and reasonable, the burden on the monetary policy to deliver price stability is light. if we have a bad fiscal policy, then we are overburdening the decisions that have to be taken by the central bank. i would say it is the same for us in terms of interaction with the governments, but we are fiercely independent and the fact that we have had to embark on a number of non-standard measures, as i have explained, was to allow us to transmit our monetary policy impulses as well as possible in circumstances where markets were not functioning properly and therefore the decisions that we were taking on interest rates were not being transmitted correctly to the economy as a whole. this is the essence of the non-standard measures, to help restore a more normal functioning of the monetary policy transmission channels and we very clearly made the distinction i repeated that in a recent colloquium we had in which ben bernanke participated between the standard measures that are really what counts in terms of monetary policy stance, and the non-standard measures designed to help the transmission of monetary policy. now let me just say that i also noted the important question... as regards mr gauzès' question on communication, which has been taken up by others, there seems to me to be a tendency in some communication channels to scapegoat europe. if things go wrong, it's europe's fault. we know that this is not true, and the european parliament knows that better than anyone else. there is also a tendency to say that if things are not going well, it is the commission's fault or the fault of the european central bank, or better still, the fault of the euro. this is the classic scapegoat phenomenon. the euro is the currency which has maintained its internal and external stability in a remarkable way. i have not yet said that this was even more remarkable than anything that a central bank in the countries that founded the euro had ever done in the last fifty years. i had saved that for last, if i may say so. i think we have a currency that is actually sound and that is sound in historical terms. so let us beware of the scapegoat phenomenon. i must say that we all have a considerable amount of work to do in terms of communication, but i also take the message to the european central bank and to the whole of the eurosystem, that is to say all the national central banks that belong to the euro area, and i would like to say that this is also a problem that certainly arises at the level of the 27, for the european union as a whole. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, thank you very much for your detailed reply. i think it is necessary at this point to give a more detailed answer than is usually the case in the house.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i should also like to thank president trichet, commissioner rehn and, above all, all the other members for this very open and very comprehensive debate. it was characterized by a great deal of objectivity, although in the end some of the emotions of our irish colleagues were reflected, which i can understand. i would like to make three points in the short time i have. first, the independence of the ecb: i believe it was right and important that the heads of state or government of the time, led by the eminent citizen of europe, chancellor helmut kohl, should have enforced the independence of the european central bank. the european central bank is the guardian of the euro. i think that the euro has been so stable in the crisis of the last few months because we have such an ecb. i therefore ask you, mr president trichet, to continue to act with the utmost independence in the months ahead. if you are approached with opinions, you listen to them, but ultimately you, as president and as executive board of the ecb, must preserve this independence. secondly, we must explain more to the citizens of the union. that is an important point. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is a very important point for me. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can also emphasize that. we want to implement basel iii as quickly as possible. but i would like to see basel iii implemented quickly only if we all implement it together at the g20 level. it is not possible that europe alone will again be moving forward and that we alone will be leading the way, but that our international competitiveness will be seriously affected. i would therefore urge that europe does indeed do this with its partners worldwide, or rather that it considers what alternatives exist.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr david casa, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards the duration of the obligation to comply with a minimum standard rate (com (2010) 0331 - c7-0173/2010 - 2010/0179 (cns)) (a7-0325/2010)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we see in haiti one of the hugest humanitarian aid operations ever. we have to make sure that we do not lose the battle against this catastrophe and that we manage to get results and help haitians to build their future. apart from being an individual disaster for millions of people, a failure would also be a backlash for the international community’s effort and capacity to conduct a joint effort in humanitarian aid. i believe that we have to put all our experience, all the lessons we have learnt in haiti and elsewhere, and also enough money, into the pot. therefore i very much welcome the commission’s announcement that it will put an additional eur 12 million into the fight against cholera. we have to make sure that this support reaches haiti immediately, that it arrives in full and not just in part, and that we support the right initiatives in order to make it effective. we also have to make sure that we do not neglect the efforts for the earthquake reconstruction because, without that, fighting disease will be impossible. i have two questions to the commission. firstly, i would like to know whether the pledged money has arrived – the money that was promised – and whether it was disbursed and absorbed. secondly, i would like to know what you think about postponing the elections, because that is again on the agenda. the haitian revolution has never managed to enter the history books. let us hope that the difficult time in haiti at the moment will enter the history books as the starting point for preparing a better future for all haitians. i hope it can also be mentioned that the eu played a very positive role in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the rapporteurs. given the high level of imports of fish and fishery products into the eu, it is imperative that we support and promote both our local fishermen and the local aquaculture industry. we urgently need improved fishing methods to ensure the long-term survival of the seas and fishermen. it is also essential to make it possible to develop aquaculture more. we urgently need more effective data collection and more intensive research. because only if we know what's really going on can we make the right decisions for the future. excessive bureaucracy and lack of knowledge are often the reasons why we fail to reconcile economics and ecology, although they are not distinct in themselves.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my contribution relates to the regulation of the council and the european parliament on the prohibition of overfishing and the limitation of fishing for flounder and turbot in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound. and this is not just a matter of amending a regulation, but of two very important and excellent food fish species which we in europe urgently need for our internal market. it is also clear that the scientific and professional communities must work together to ensure that the experience gained in the field of discards and management of our stocks, as well as in the field of by-catch, is properly evaluated and evaluated. we have all the possibilities - mr gróbarczyk has worked this out very well - to provide for restrictions here. it is essential that article 15a be inserted in the regulation. you heard the rapporteur make that clear again. that is our common objective and we have achieved that in the committee, namely to minimise by-catches and discards. but there are species of fish, including flounder and stoneback, where you can throw back undersized fish and even juvenile fish, if they are taken on board in the catch. it is necessary, of course, to work with excellent fishing gear, to fish selectively, and to pay attention to the fishing times. these two species have been changing their spawning grounds constantly, so that of course the fishing areas are clearly defined, the spawning times and spawning grounds are described exactly here. the marketing parameters must not be changed downwards to prevent the possibility of producing only fishmeal from excellent stocks. that's not our goal. we want to serve the market, and that is why we have changed this regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs damanaki for her report. i am very pleased that we are able to adopt four important regulations on fisheries policy this week and that we have been able to reach agreement with each other and with the council and the commission on the reports on aquaculture and technical measures in the baltic sea. unfortunately, you interpret the two regulations on longterm management plans quite differently. we have always had a very intense debate in the committee on the correct formula for managing the anchovy stock. i think the proposal for the plenary looks very good and i am glad that the epp seems to have taken note of this, since it has not tabled any amendments. i assume you'll vote yes tomorrow. we have a much more serious problem with the council. the majority of member states, contrary to the advice of their own lawyers, refuse to accept the co-decision powers of the european parliament. and this is one year after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon! i find that outrageous. i have therefore proposed to the chairman of our committee that we write a joint letter to the european fisheries ministers. i would be glad if we could come together in the next few days to demonstrate the resolve of this parliament. we're not gonna let the council eat us like this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not saying that the commission should be involved in the negotiations. the rapporteur and his co-rapporteurs deserve our thanks for having made a proper statement from this wide range of opinions. i think the magic word is patient-centered. so you didn't take the many side effects and say, what does the patient need? i think it's right that we have established that the patient can get information in a variety of ways, not just one. but i want to emphasize: the doctor will continue to be the patient's confidant and will also have to be able to influence the decisive issues. we guarantee this because we have banned advertising and because the information the patient receives has been reviewed and approved by an authority. first of all, the information is scientifically backed and the patient can certainly handle it. of course, it is true that not everyone can find this out on the internet. but we have different ways of doing that, and i think it's so common that we don't have to worry about it. i hope that the council will finally have the courage to take up this matter. it's very important, it must be done quickly. patients expect it. then we've done a good job of it.
i have to say, madam president, the report is a good one, but it is not enough. the report is a very good result, despite the difficult conditions and the extreme winds blowing against it. the commission proposal has been considerably improved. the strict prohibition of advertising, the absence of information on radio, television and in magazines, and the fact that patients must actively request information, remain. my motto is the mature patient. patients want to be informed, and i'd love to help them do that. that's why i want the patient to be the center of the information. i would like to focus on two key points. i myself have also been very vocal in the internal market and in the health committee about health portals on the internet and about similar information in printed documents. citizens often look on the internet and find bad and unverified information. that is why we must oppose an alternative: controlled information. a first success was pharmacovigilance. we have adopted drug safety portals where the package insert and information on the medicines are included. but i would like to go further, commissioner, and i would like to see comprehensive internet portals providing information on diseases and prevention. if i understand the commissioner correctly, he supports this in principle, but perhaps he does not say so in this dossier. i would like to hear a clear statement from the commissioner here on whether he can support this. it would be a very, very important matter to me.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i hope our commissioner will find his voice again, because we need his voice at the climate conference in cancún. i was surprised to see mrs damanaki speaking here after the revision of the fisheries directive, also during the revision of the toxic substances directive. thanks for stopping by. parliament did not get everything it wanted. annex 3 is missing, and that hurts us. but we are keeping an eye on these substances, and when we review them in three years' time, you will have to come back to this house with your impact assessments and show, substance by substance, what the problems are. we also have a whole bunch of exceptions, almost like swiss cheese. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment. i'll just say, the solar panels were highly competitive. we want to keep cadmium out of the environment, but these panels are putting 100,000 tons of cadmium into the environment. you have to watch this closely. i am pleased that the commission is meeting us with the four declarations, and we are now taking what progress has been made in 2010 and we will see you again in the review in three years' time. thank you, of course, to the reporters and the shadow reporters.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. we are faced today with legislation which has come to an end surprisingly quickly in this directive. i am very surprised that we have already found a compromise which i and my group - and i emphasize this - consider to be acceptable. in the end, this piece of legislation has had a rather difficult journey through parliament. we've expanded the scope of the law, and then we've narrowed it down. we have tried to define substances as highly dangerous, which raises the question of whether they should be discussed in such legislation. i think that it was not a good idea to include pvc and nanomaterials in a directive called 'hazardous substances'. i therefore think it is sensible that this is no longer the case in the compromise. as my predecessor has just said, it is rather strange that we should be thinking very intensely and sometimes discussing every gram of poison very irrationally. but obviously there are sectors in europe around which we are putting a political nature fence. this seems to be the case in the renewable energy economy. it's hard to imagine that we can just snap our fingers and take them out of the scope of this law completely, free to go along with the motto: for climate protection and renewable energy goals, we have to buy into the poisons in our environment. it doesn't add up. i just hope that we don't repeat this in the electronic waste - the decision is here - in this form, because it would be even more glaring there.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur. it has done a very good job and has done what it could in the face of the great opposition of the council and the majority here in parliament. the open scope is an important success of the recast. this approach is exemplary and i am glad we were able to agree on it. the negative is that the list of six substances which are currently banned has not been extended to include, for example, chlorinated and brominated flame retardants, phthalates and pvc. although the health risks of these substances are well established, they will not be banned in 2011 when the recast is in force. for example, for several years now, some leading electronics manufacturers have been voluntarily releasing cell phones, televisions, and laptops free of these poisons without greatly increasing their cost. ladies and gentlemen, we have missed a great opportunity here to make the growing electrical and electronics industry a little bit more environmentally friendly. leading manufacturers are showing off how it's done. but instead of supporting these manufacturers with good standards, the eu is lagging behind. the poor of the world will suffer. after all, we dump many millions of tons of toxic e-waste every year. the poor cannot afford lobbyists in the union.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. the electricity directive is a very controversial subject. opinions on various aspects were very different. i am therefore pleased with the agreement and with the good result, in my view, of the trilogue negotiations. i would like to make two specific points. one is the issue of scope. what kind of equipment is the directive supposed to cover? one thing we must remember is that the original scope of application was for domestic appliances, for the white appliances. the open scope now covers many new product groups, including, for example, renewable energy technologies. it must be said that the directive was aimed at something else. of course, i have to apply much stricter and higher protection standards to household appliances than, for example, to technologies that are dismantled or recycled by specialist personnel, etc. that is why i have again voted in favour of the exception of renewable energies. i wasn't in favor of expanding the scope, but then i saw that the majority went in that direction. i would have thought it counterproductive to include renewable energy in this directive. that would have put us at a competitive disadvantage and i think that is the right decision. one more sentence to annex iii: i would have found it worrying to include 37 other substances as priority substances where there is not even really a justification for health reasons that it has to end up in a ban. i think that is a panic attack, and i think it is right that this decision has been taken, and i am pleased at this point with the result.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the revised directive was intended to contribute to improving consumer and environmental protection. i believe we have done this because we have set a realistic framework, one that is based on real risks to consumers and the environment and gives businesses legal certainty for investment and innovation. this is very important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are doing research at certain levels. it is also reassuring that we have been able to agree on risk-based guidelines on this important subject, and i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs in this respect. it has been said several times today that it is regrettable that the panels have been removed. ladies and gentlemen, this is not about cadmium, this is about cadmium telluride and this is about innovation and investment. and you have to keep that a little bit separate. and this isn't about electrical appliances, this is about appliances that generate electricity. and that's a huge difference. you can't just throw it all together and say, "well, now everything is toxic, there's so much sulfur in my building block, in my body. i wouldn't want to ingest sulfur like that. but in a chemical bond, it's a completely different story. and that is why i am glad that we are finally putting the pvc issue in the past. the companies that make pvc have done a lot of research in recent years. it is also necessary to get acquainted with the latest developments, so that one can also see what has happened in the world, and not have to reopen ten years old discussions. i'm satisfied with what's here. we can certainly do a lot with it for the environment, consumers and innovation.
i have to say, madam president, i think the basic idea of the directive is to be supported. the committee has finally done its job and has considerably improved the commission's proposal. however, there are still a few things that need to be discussed further. first, in everything we do, we must also take into account the international dimension. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the environment. secondly, the so-called mediumsized enterprises, the small and mediumsized enterprises, must also cope with our regulations and, above all, with the bureaucratic burden that comes with them. thirdly, i firmly believe that the process we are embarking on will be a dynamic one, not a static one, and that is why we need to have this matter regularly re-submitted to the european parliament.
i have to say, madam president, the european union has a long tradition of promoting the development of the social dimension in the european union. for exactly one month now, workers at the atlas plants in ganderkesee, delmenhorst and vechta have been on strike day and night for these very rights. the workers are striking to secure a collective agreement that will ensure the preservation of good and secure jobs. unfortunately, there is a total refusal on the part of the management to negotiate with the industrial metall union and the works council. during the industrial action, the workers were subjected to massive intimidation and pressure by the management. i appeal to the management and in particular to the entrepreneur, mr filipov: resume the negotiations, return to the negotiating table! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. a hire-and-fire system creates fear and social unrest. such a system must not exist in europe. it's bad for our democracy!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the member states of the european union have committed themselves at international level to make a significant contribution to the world's civil and military crisis management capabilities. this commitment repeatedly expressed in the helsinki headlines, among others exists in many cases only on paper. in concrete terms, 25% of the posts promised by the member states are already unfilled in the european union's civilian missions currently in operation, such as eulex or eupol. the objectives and structures of the union's civil-military capabilities, as repeatedly formulated by the member states, are far from reality. the european parliament has therefore decided to draw up its own own initiative report on the development of civil-military structures and coordination in the european union. in concrete terms, parliament reiterates in this report that the eu's special civil-military capabilities are one of the most important instruments of the union's foreign policy and of the common security and defence policy. in order to meet parliament's new responsibilities in the context of the lisbon process, we have taken an unusual path. we did not start with a report, but first of all we created the empirical basis for this report. on these figures - and therefore with a large majority in the committee on foreign affairs - we have put forward very concrete proposals: concrete statements at the strategic level on the establishment of a structure of equal rights between the military and civilian sectors in the new european external action service; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the establishment of a permanent european headquarters, on the provision of staff by the member states, on the question of creating an attractive system of incentives for national experts to take part in such operations, on the question of building up a reserve of staff for the future. there are concrete proposals for the training of civilian and military personnel. there are proposals to finance ongoing missions, in particular the creation of a start-up fund under article 41 of the treaties. there are proposals on crisis management instruments, especially on the question of future cooperation between police and military forces. the european gendarmerie force is an example of this, but also the question of how these two instruments can be linked in very specific operational cases and how the separation between purely military and civilian operations can be overcome. we've been making statements about the future of the battle groups. we are calling for a reorientation of the situation. we are asking for funding under the athens mechanism. we call for the expansion of the operational capabilities of the battle groups within the framework of the oslo guidelines and for a stronger ability and capability of the battle groups to secure civilian missions and to broaden the definition of the missions of the battle groups. we are dealing with the question of research and technology, the question of dual use, the inclusion of civil-military missions in the catalogue of tasks of the security research programme within the framework of the european union's research programme. we are dealing with specific issues of equipment, storage, but also with international cooperation with the united nations and nato. the main issues are the avoidance of duplication of structures, the better use of existing structures, the question of building up joint air transport capacity, the question of implementing the berlin plus agreements for better cooperation between the two organisations in crisis situations. the european parliament has thus fulfilled its newly acquired tasks and obligations. the report has received a large majority in the afet, across all the political groups, and we see it as an important contribution to the future construction of the civil-military structures of the european union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would also like to express my condolences on behalf of gue/ngl to the victims and those affected. we are in agreement on that in all parties. and we also agree that we need to help quickly. i have already said a lot of sensible things on this subject, which i do not need to repeat, but which i fully support. i would like to emphasize one more aspect: the long-term damage. let us not forget that some of the effects on nature are more long-term than we can currently foresee. i think it is important that the solidarity fund and the measures we take should also be geared to such long-term consequences of the destruction of nature. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it is exactly ten years ago that the call for gender justice in conflict and crisis situations first brought women's rights as a universal human right to the attention of the un security council. this was a milestone towards a legally binding international requirement for women's participation in peace and security policy decisions. in 2005, then secretary-general kofi annan called for national action plans to implement resolution 1325. we heard today that only 20 countries have done so so far, including european countries like sweden and the uk, but also african countries like liberia and the ivory coast. i think all eu member states are called upon to adopt such action plans. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. the gender perspective has certainly become more important at the international level. there's a new un special envoy on sexual violence or un women for gender justice. but we must also see that these are all measures that are still very much in their infancy. it is about supporting women and girls who are victims of sexual violence. we have resolutions and aid programmes here, and we must step up our efforts. but it is also about supporting the identification and prosecution of the perpetrators, always in conjunction with the reform of the local justice system. it is positive, as mr chastel, lady ashton's representative, has said, that there should now be financial resources of eur 2 million to support this resolution. i would like to stress the need to involve local women's ngos in order to use the funds in a targeted way.
i have to say, madam president, women and children continue to be disproportionately affected by war and its consequences. but women's rights must not be used to justify military intervention. the example of the republic of congo shows that military interventions do not contribute to the protection, security and establishment of women's rights, but unfortunately we have to say: the opposite is true. in afghanistan, the situation of women is worse than ever because of the war. the promise of resolution 1325 can only be fulfilled by avoiding conflict and implementing civilian measures alone in situations of war and conflict. i therefore find it totally unacceptable to bend this resolution to the point of saying that we must increase the proportion of women in war. i call on the eu to refrain in principle from providing any support, including equipment and training, to regimes and armed forces that deploy minors as soldiers in armed conflicts, that violate human rights or that engage in systematic sexual violence.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate you and your services. they have presented a good impact assessment. an impact assessment that is fact-based, consistent and to the point. it is a pity that the others in the commission's college did not read this impact assessment. because if they had, they couldn't have made this proposal. because it has nothing to do with the impact assessment. the commission's proposal is not a new one. there is no evidence of this in the impact assessment. the only thing that might be in favor of this is that 2014 is right at the halfway point between 2010 and 2018. that's all i got! but they may not have understood the content. everything that speaks or is said to have spoken in support of this motion cannot be seriously considered because the arguments are not correct. the argument is that the aid scheme adopted in 2002 and now expiring would be an expiry scheme for coal mining as a whole. of course, that is not true. it was a connection error. i can judge that because i was there at the time and was the rapporteur for parliament in 2002. the ecsc treaty had expired after 50 years and a follow-up arrangement was needed. i am not saying that we should not be concerned with the question of the future of the community. if all this were a matter of expiry arrangements, what would happen to the special assets of the ecsc, for example? no, it wasn't a drainage system, it was a connection system. and there are good reasons why the eight-year period agreed at the time for this connection scheme was agreed, and then we will look at it. so the argument is wrong. the second argument that is made is the question of sustainability. now we're all in favor of it, and we also know that coal is naturally associated with a lot of co2 emissions. however, a commission decision cannot override scientific laws. because what happens then? domestic coal is being replaced by imported coal. that's all i know. and imported coal emits no less co2 than domestic coal. the problem is that if we don't have the reference fields, we don't have the fields to develop more modern mining and power plant technology. but europe is leading in this area and has an export advantage. i don't think you can just give up on that. a third argument is that aid is harmful anyway and that the money should be used for other things. well, there's nothing you can do about the argument or the attitude of market radicals. you can't fight ideology with facts. but for example, if they say that it's going to be too expensive, they should look a little bit at what it actually means if you were to stop abruptly, and 2014 would be an abrupt stop. the cost of combating unemployment, for example, would then rise, but above all the so-called eternity costs would rise. it's a very complicated and complex matter. even years and decades after coal mining is finished, the so-called eternity costs continue to accrue. they'd have to bear the public's hand. but there are member states which have a system in place to ensure that the public sector does not have to bear these eternal costs. so that argument is dropped, too. and that is why i urge you to think again and to pay attention to what the impact assessment itself says. otherwise, regional and social policy would be disrupted. we do not want that, which is why the 2018 proposal is very reasonable.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank mr rapkay for his report to the committee on economic and monetary affairs of this parliament. we in the commission have examined with great interest and attention both the report and the amendments which have been proposed for this debate, and we have taken note that the report supports in particular the extension of the period of closure of non-competitive mines until 2018. the commission is also aware that in the recent discussions in the permanent representatives committee, coreper, there is a majority support for the 2018 deadline, as mr rapkay's report suggests. of course, when we in the commission prepared the proposal for a regulation and when we analysed this situation, we were fully aware of the social and regional impact in certain regions of the european union of the closure of coal mines. but we have also taken into account, when preparing the regulation, the fact that some of these mines are not competitive and have only survived, until today, thanks to constant injections of public money, of public subsidies. in our proposal for a regulation we therefore allow member states to grant additional operating aid, but this time with the specific aim of facilitating the gradual closure of noncompetitive mines. i would like to make three comments on three points which are considered in the report. firstly, the proposal to grant operating or investment aid to make the mines competitive. a similar provision already existed in the previous regulation on aid to the sector. however, the previous regulation has largely failed to achieve the desired effects and, instead of guiding coal mines towards profitability, has created a certain moral hazard. the mines were subsidized in the vain hope of achieving profitability. we must now face the consequences: a special coal production regime must be extended because the mines in question have neither become profitable nor have they been closed. in any event, mines with credible profitability forecasts do not need state aid and can receive the necessary capital from the capital markets or financial markets. secondly, i would like to explain why we consider it necessary in our proposal to have a plan for the mitigation of environmental effects. our proposal mentions this in article 3 (1). state aid distorts competition, which is why the treaty has provisions to declare it incompatible in a whole range of cases. operating aid may be authorised only if it has a positive effect. our regulation proposes a plan to reduce the environmental impact of coal use in order to compensate for the negative effects of the aid. finally, the third point: when the objective of operating aid is to help achieve a transition towards the closure of non-competitive mines, it is clear that such closure must be gradual and cannot take place only at the end of the period. this gradual nature should be clearly reflected in the closure plan, and the plan should also include a degressive proportion of such aid during the transitional period. our proposal therefore provides for a linear reduction in the aid by a percentage which clearly points to the abolition of the aid at the end of the transitional period. that said, i would like to thank mr rapkay and all those who have contributed to the report we have examined - and we will examine parliament's position on it - we are naturally following the discussions in the council in contact with the belgian presidency and, in the light of parliament's position and depending on the council's position, the commission will naturally express its opinion in the coming weeks.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. coal is part of the energy supply, that's indisputable. it is also undeniable that competitiveness must be ensured and that subsidisation cannot be the right way. the question now is whether the date of 2014 or 2018 is the right one. mr rapkay has made a lot of clever arguments which i do not need to repeat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we simply have to provide the flexibility needed in terms of the timeframe, which is also necessary to enable the member states to realise that the burden on people, jobs and economic structures remains manageable. the only argument that was raised, and which also contradicted the impact of the commission, which initially seemed to be also for 2018, was the argument that climate policy reasons could play a role here. i would like to emphasize this point again: the climate is not affected by the burning of coal from other countries or from our own coal. i would ask the commissioner to consider whether this four-year period, if such a new argument arises in parliament and in the council, could not lead to the commission becoming a little more flexible. i have just taken the point that the commission is considering it, and i thank you for that.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to encourage commissioner almunia to stick to his original proposal: 2018. it was well-founded. economic, regional, social and energy policy reasons led to this proposal. i cannot understand why the commission's college has been pushing climate policy reasons that are not relevant at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the climate balance remains largely the same. it is probably even more unfavourable for imported coal, because this coal has to be sourced from canada, australia or other parts of the world. that is why the reasoning is wrong. i would like to thank mr rapkay for working closely with the epp group to draw up this proposal. i believe it is a council regulation. it is a lacuna in the treaty of lisbon that regulations are not covered by the co-decision procedure of parliament on the basis of competition law, but that they are still based on regulation no 17 of 1965 without proper assessment. that is why we need a broad vote today - at least as far as our position is concerned - if coal is to remain competitive in the future as one of the most important sources of energy available to us in europe. our group will give its full support to mr rapkay's report. we want to encourage mr almunia to push the commission to come forward with a new proposal in 2018 and we want to change the adopted report on two points. the first is the question of how aid should be designed in a degressive manner. we believe that this should be left to the member states during this eight-year period. the second area is that the regulation as a whole is to expire in 2030. this is also the state of the discussions in the council on this regulation, and only if parliament takes a clear decision in favour of 2018 will we properly assess the social, political, energy, economic and regional reasons.
the commission has already done so. better to end in horror than to end in horror. i have to think of this german phrase in the context of the subject we are discussing today. i support the commission's proposal to end state aid to mines which are not competitive by 2014. the cost per employee in coal mining is far above average. these are not expenditure on sustainable, competitive and therefore future employment. that is why i think it is right to finally end state aid in 2014 for those who are not competitive. we must invest these funds in research and development, in education and training. this is the only way to maintain our technological edge and remain competitive in the global economy as a whole.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating commissioner almunia on the fact that there is an open debate in the commission. there are good reasons why you, commissioner, and commission president barroso entered the debate in the college with a very different year. and i think it is good that the commission is having such an open discussion on regulatory policy and then basically reversing a decision. that is admirable and remarkable, and i think it is good that you are representing the new resolution in this way. there are many good reasons for this decision. however, there are plans in the member states concerned. there were plans, and i can only say that i am glad that the revision clause has been put in place, which would have meant that we would have reopened the whole barrel in the largest member state affected, germany, from 2012. in this respect, your debate in the college is a great success. i know 2018 is coming. i am also happy about the planning security and will vote accordingly, but i can still understand that the regulatory policy has won here.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i'd like to say a few words to our liberal friends, especially mrs. field. competition will not be affected because coal-fired power stations will continue to run on imported coal, which will worsen the environmental balance. so the argument is wrong in both respects. moreover, this cannot continue beyond 2018 - for example in the case of germany - because there is a contract between the parties and not only the state, according to which the contract is to be concluded in 2018, so that the so-called perpetuity costs do not have to be borne by the state. the eternal costs, which will run into the millions over many centuries, will be borne by a foundation solution. if this were to be destroyed, it would cost the state a great deal of money in the long run and for an unforeseeable time. if you have created such a clever concept with a clear end, you should take this into account and not try to make theoretical market definitions that have nothing to do with the reality of the agreement.
madam president, mr almunia, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make two brief points: the first is competitiveness, which is mentioned in many points here. i would invite you to take note of the number of mine accidents we actually hear about. this is because there are mines all over the world, there are coal mines, but unfortunately there are safety conditions which are a laughingstock for those in european or german coal mines. to put it somewhat bluntly, i personally have little regard for competitiveness bought on the bones of the mates. but if we look at the industrial policy implications of actually getting out of coal mining early on, i would point out that the european mining equipment industry is competitive. and all those who think that this is a yesterday's industry, especially mr klinz, whom i would like to invite to join me on a mining trip, will realise that high technology is being used there and that the question is whether or not we want to continue to make money from this industry. i understand that the alde does not want this. i fear that the mining machinery industry will follow production and leave europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. commissioner, that is the crux of the matter. you are right to tell mr lange that this is a council regulation. it is only up to you, as commissioner, to be open to the arguments put forward both in the council and here in parliament. you have to abandon your proposal in the same rigidity as you did, and then the sensible thing can happen in a democracy, where decisions are taken by majority and unanimity is not required. the second point i want to make is to my colleague mr chatzimarkakis. the revision clause you have just mentioned is completely irrelevant here. and the row that has been going on in germany is only to protect the face of the minister of economy there, nothing more. i would now like to address the concern that the commissioner has just expressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. whether that is sensible is another question, whether that is sensible from the point of view of energy policy, whether that is sensible from the point of view of technology policy. what mr geier said is absolutely right. but we're not questioning that. the only question is: are we going to do this relatively abruptly, in 2014, or are there reasonable transitional arrangements until 2018? but other than that, we're not questioning anything here. it is not, for example, as mr lambert says, who read his speech and then left. he should have stayed here, maybe he could learn something. it is not that there are member states here who have done nothing. it is not the case in spain, it is not the case in poland, it is not the case in romania, it is not the case in germany. in 1990, there were still over 200 000 jobs in the coal mining industry in germany. 20 years later, it's only 20,000, so that's a 90 percent decline, just 10 percent. and also in the period from 2002 to now, during the period of this regulation which is still in force, there have been a lot of mine closures. so let's not pretend like nothing happened. the question is: do we need a reasonable transition period to do this without any social or political breakdown, yes or no? and i can only appeal to them: yes, we need them. and then it should not matter about those four years, because in the end nobody is questioning that any more. please take this to the commission.
in writing. - first of all, a warm thanks to our committee chairman, mr paolo de castro, and to our epp shadow rapporteur, mrs elisabeth jeggle, for their good work. the last extension of the german spirits monopoly, which was decided today, is an important step forward. this means planning security for our fruit burners, above all, beyond 2010. this is important to enable you to prepare for the transition to the free market and thus preserve a unique cultural landscape in germany. it is important that this time is used intensively to make the necessary adjustments. because there will be no further extension of the monopoly. this is also the message of today's report.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because i believe it is necessary and right to use the solidarity fund to provide aid for the victims of the floods of the past years. here, eu funds benefit directly the people concerned.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the ecb's annual report 2009, as it clearly demonstrates the ecb's consistent approach and its mandate as the guardian of price stability. the ecb acted and responded effectively to the crisis in 2009. with her independence and determination, she created the conditions for a lasting climate of trust. our main suggestion for improvement needs to be implemented consistently: the ecb should increase the transparency of its work to further strengthen its legitimacy. with the new treaty of lisbon of 1 december 2009, the ecb became an institution of the european union. i welcome that, because what many people don't know is: the parliament is the body to which the ecb is primarily accountable. it must be able to continue to take monetary policy decisions independently of politics, but also to represent the citizens whose voice we as parliamentarians have. the ecb has been and is a reliable partner in the effort to strike the balance between sound public finances and the necessary reduction of the debt burden in the member states. she always stressed that the eurozone needed a stability pact with authority. it must be applied to the letter and must not be undermined or hollowed out.
in writing. - adapting to new social conditions takes time and a lot of trust. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's coal industry is not left behind. the period for the corresponding restructuring measures is now set at 2018. this is a successful compromise, which is a testament to the foresight of all involved. in view of the large number of people employed in this industry, it is right and important that the european union and the member states should make efforts to cushion and minimise the negative social and regional impact. i am therefore very pleased that the european parliament has agreed to this view today. this will enable europe, and germany in particular, to carry out the difficult but necessary adjustment processes with moderation and on a stable political basis.
in writing. - i voted for mr rapkay's report because the end of subsidised coal mining by 2018 is, fortunately, a cross-party majority. the german example shows how a coal pact between the federal government, the länder and the social partners leads to effective coal mining - without any redundancies. there is now more planning certainty for over 100 000 jobs across europe. so that there is no misunderstanding: it is not a question of perpetuating subsidies or maintaining structures which are not competitive. it is a question of dealing responsibly with a traditional european industry. coal has a very good reason for being - as a fuel for electricity generation and as a raw material in chemistry, especially in times of dwindling resources such as oil and gas. a minimum quantity of coal contributes to energy security and prevents dependence on imports. the claim that an end to the financial support of coal serves the protection of the environment is false. it makes no difference to the climate whether domestic or foreign raw materials are used. it must remain committed to the environmentally friendly coal technology and to a secure energy supply from domestic products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's industrial policy is not only effective but also effective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments and against the berlinguer report because i am not sure that subsidiarity is sufficiently protected in it. i do not think we should omit any of the more sensitive details just because it is a large package of directives. this is a counter-hook strategy. the key point for me is paragraph 40, which, as it has been adopted today, together with other parts of the stockholm programme, will provoke conflicts of competence. in concrete terms, there are doubts whether we will apply family law to the mutual recognition of certificates of civil status - including marriage certificates - and thus respect the decision-making authority of the member states in defining marriage in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 81 (3) of the eu treaty. as long as this is not clear, there is a risk of conflict between the simple procedures of civil law and the complicated procedures of crossborder family law. a sentence like amendment no 3 would have been sufficient to defuse this conflict. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i remain firm in my view that marriage and the family are under the special protection of the state. they remain the exclusive responsibility of the member states. i therefore voted against the own-initiative report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i believe that the crisis we are in was triggered in deauville. i believe that an agreement was reached in deauville whereby the president of france and the chancellor of the federal republic of germany made a deal with david cameron: agreement to the revision of the treaty on the stability pact in return for the united kingdom's budgetary claims. i may be wrong, but suspicion is ripe, and this is a deal to the detriment of third parties, namely the rights of the european parliament. it is not surprising that this third party, in this case this institution, does not participate. it is not surprising, moreover, that europe's fate is being left in the hands of eurosceptic governments. then such a government tests how far it can go. and the british government is currently testing whether or not the rest of europe will bow to its prerogatives. and that is why this budget, this budgetary debate, is also a debate on the question of the direction in which the european union should develop. it's not about money. we agreed on the money. i believe that this is an important message, also for the voters, for the citizens. we're in agreement on the money. and we have accepted the demands of the united kingdom on money as a parliament: 2.91% increase in expenditure - not in commitment appropriations but in expenditure. so if it's not about money, what is it about? it is a question of the rights of the european parliament. it's about the rights that are written in the contract. nothing that this parliament is asking for is outside the treaty. when we talk about own resources, we are talking about article 311 of the treaty on european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and when we talk about budgetary flexibility, we are talking about the mutual interest of governments, the commission and parliament in being able to respond flexibly to short-term needs within the framework of budgetary rules. it is not about extra spending, it is about the effectiveness of how europe is governed - that is the case with flexibility - and it is about the primary rights of a parliament. i'm a little surprised. the heads of government of the european union are all parliamentarians. they are all men and women who come from parliamentary tradition. and joseph daul has already said it: what national parliament would accept that its central right, budgetary law, could be superimposed by an executive will? and the 27 governments of the european union are executive. but we cannot have democracy in europe turned upside down. it is the parliament that passes the budget and it is the parliament that controls the executive. what the british government wants to see happen here is that 27 governments control parliament. and that is the opposite of parliamentary democracy. that is why we are talking about a landmark decision. and this parliament cannot allow that right or those rights to be taken away from it. what's next? the money of the european taxpayers, after being transferred from the coffers of the member states to brussels, is no longer the money of the member states but becomes the money of the union. and then it must be controlled by a parliament within that union. the budget must then be adopted by a parliament, because the european budget is not adopted by 27 national parliaments, nor by 27 national governments, but by the freely elected parliament, and that is this house. the medium-term financial planning, the flexibility clause and the own resources are the three elements we have to negotiate with the council, not money. we've been discussing this for the last few hours. mr lamassoure - i want to say this explicitly again here - has made a great effort, the group chairmen have made a great effort, and i think we have now reached a fairly uniform position. but a line cannot be abandoned now. the council must know that these three elements do not concern additional expenditure but rights, and a parliament which allows its rights to be curtailed by any government should cease to function. my group has therefore unanimously decided that either we agree to these demands, which are nothing but an underlining of the rights of this parliament, or there is no budget. if there is no budget, there is no iter, the fusion reactor. then there is no galileo project. then there is no european union external action service. the heads of government have a choice: either recognition of the rights of the parliament and its projects or humiliation of parliament, then there is no budget. that is the unanimous line of my group. let's hear it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not madam president, there are many interpretations. it's perfectly clear. you may interpret the eu treaty differently than i do. but it is not a question of interpretation, it is a question of the application of this treaty. and there is a clear budgetary procedure for applying this treaty. moreover, as far as i know, you are a member of the jobbik party in hungary, or if not, of another party. then tell your electors in your country that the fact that we are securing the eu budget also means that cohesion funds in the european union can actually be paid in the long term. if there were no budget, they could not be paid!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the supporters of the lisbon treaty have stressed that it would eliminate the democratic deficit in the eu. the reality of the first year shows that even parliamentary participation and democratic control by the european parliament must be won in a hard-fought struggle with the council and the commission. the council's decision to grant the budgetary authority to the commission is a very important step forward. i emphasized the minimum standard. this parliament was elected to give life to the european idea and to provide a counterweight to national egos. it is our duty not to compromise on the european parliament's participation in the negotiations on the financial framework for the budgets 2013 to 2020. new tasks cannot be financed, or can only be financed to a very limited extent, by budgetary changes. in view of the tight budgets of the member states, it is completely incomprehensible that the council refuses to discuss the own resources together with parliament. the european budget must be a concrete expression of solidarity between the member states. otherwise we are abandoning the basic idea of european integration and losing our credibility with the citizens. the net contributors seem to have forgotten this. while their companies are profiting from the european single market, germany and others are being greedy when it comes to tackling the common challenges facing europe. solidarity is being redefined. you help when it's good for you. german banks are so deeply involved in the crisis of the irish financial sector that the umbrella is as necessary for the rescuers as for the rescued. my group has rejected the eu budget in recent years. we believe that the priorities are wrong, that too little attention is paid to bridging the ecological and social wealth gap. this is deepening social divisions within the eu and within the member states. it is totally unacceptable to finance major projects such as iter at the expense of projects which directly benefit students and the unemployed, rural regions and local authorities. i want to sum up: it is time - and this is a bit simplistic, but i want to put it this way - to think more about the people of europe, and to think more about europe and not about national egoism. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i understand your economic questions, mr president, which are extremely profound from an economic point of view, and i respect that. i think, however, that the issue here is the relationship between the european parliament and its rights and the budget. that's another matter. it's about products, but in a different sense!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at 5 p.m., the conference of presidents will meet at your invitation. i would not have taken the floor again if mr wathelet had not made such remarks. in the light of the fact that at 5 p.m. the conference of presidents is to decide and deliberate on the next move of parliament, i would be grateful if we could have the speech by mr wathelet. because i have to tell you, what i heard is a step backwards. it is less than what we have heard from the council so far. if that is the council's line, then i have to tell you, mr wathelet, that it is certainly not a reproach to the belgian presidency that we are facing difficult, confrontational times. i would like to thank you, mr barroso. the commission's proposals are not only a means of achieving the objectives of the treaty, but also a means of ensuring that the community's objectives are met.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to stress once again that the lisbon treaty is about the integrity of this house, the self-confident european parliament. it is not a question of going beyond the treaty, as mr barroso has very rightly said, but of respecting the spirit of the lisbon treaty, of giving parliament more powers, of not allowing the council to go back on this and of respecting the agreement on how we work together, on how we reach an agreement between parliament and the council. in 2006, this was enshrined in the interinstitutional agreement. we want nothing more than to have that confirmed again. i am grateful to you, mr barroso, for having once again emphasized this point. mr wathelet has now tried to get the house to hold us back rather than move us so far towards a truly pro-european future. if we do this now, we've already lost. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. but if we want a strong common future for the european union, for our citizens and for the world, we must reach a pro-european consensus between parliament and the council. we must not give up too soon, but must fight for european added value, because it is also in the interests of national governments and our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm worried about you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am concerned about the political situation in the european union in general, which is clearly shown by the budget. i am concerned about the trend towards intergovernmental cooperation, i am concerned that the increased rights of parliament are being blatantly curtailed and not even what was agreed in 2006 is being respected. i'm worried that lisbon won't be filled with life. (applause from the centre) and i welcome what you have said, mr barroso. but perhaps it would have been more helpful if they had come ten days earlier, so that the commission could have taken a clearer stand on parliament's side. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i am hearing now that there are backtracks again in parallel negotiations in brussels. what's going on? is it possible, and is it too much to ask, to combine in flexibility what was the status quo before lisbon and what was the right thing to do in long-term negotiations, starting with agenda 2000? is it too much to ask for a commitment on own resources to ensure that what we said in 2006 council, commission and parliament in the iia declaration remains in place? and is it too much to ask that those who reject a debate on own resources should perhaps read the treaty? it says that this debate is to be held. and finally, mr president, is it too much to ask for political agreements of a binding nature to be concluded on all the matters which involve consent procedures, so that we can do crisis prevention and not find ourselves in a similar situation on other matters, including external trade agreements or the next multiannual financial framework? because if you go there in the form in which you are going today, you will get a clear 'no' in this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i should like to make it clear, since this has been repeated here, that we have not asked for a penny more in the budget negotiations than the council has offered us. that means we have agreed with the council 100%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall then try to find a solution with the member states to such projects, so that they can be financially sustainable or reasonably planned. we have not asked for more than the treaty of lisbon requires, but we have asked for the treaty of lisbon to be respected. nothing more, nothing less, nothing more than that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot simply refuse to talk and then blame parliament for this!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is important to understand that we cannot discuss this work programme without thinking about the current budgetary dispute and without thinking about greece, ireland and other countries that may be in trouble. i would like to say first of all that i heard at the end of the budget debate that you, mr barroso, were very open about parliament's positions. i think it is really important to be honest when we adopt such a programme of work and not pretend that we can all achieve and implement these great objectives without a corresponding reliable budget which does not have to be renegotiated every time. secondly, the discussions on ireland have shown how far we are from a real solution and a way out of the crisis we have got into because we have been too liberal in the financial markets. i would like to say on behalf of my group that in your proposals for how we are going to deal with this financial crisis and how we are going to formulate ways out of it, you have made some good starting points, but we do not believe that what you have set as your objective is sufficient. if we look back now at how long we have been discussing a successfully functioning monetary union within the european union, if we want to guarantee that we really take the step into this economic government of europe, we must not leave it. so this positive orientation, beyond the crisis towards more common economic policy and not just looking at the symptom, is what we are lacking in your proposal and we will work on that. i am not satisfied with the way in which what was defined in the europe 2020 strategy as sustainable, fair and green growth is reflected in this work programme. that is not what we have discussed with europe 2020, and it is true that mr oettinger is one of the commissioners who is moving further and further away from the idea of rebuilding europe sustainably.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we want the european commission's legislative programme to be oriented towards the long-term objectives for europe and we believe that there is a need for some improvement in some areas, although we very much welcome the basic outline of this legislative programme. in the area of the internal market, which i am speaking for, i would like to point out in particular that we want to achieve, on the basis of professor monti's internal market paper, that all citizens in europe can benefit even more from this internal market. if we are to discuss the commission's work programme, then of course - if we take the monti report as a basis - it means that the commission will first of all tackle the objective contained in that document, namely that the infringement procedures of the european commission against the member states should be stepped up to reduce the implementation deficit from 1% to 0.5%. unfortunately, this is not mentioned in the work programme. we believe that, in addition to the individual measures discussed in this paper - the digital agenda, mortgage loans, concessions, and many others that i will not go into in detail now - we need in any case to have the measures announced for 2011 presented this year, in 2011. the addition of the commission's scrutiny of certain legislative proposals does not help us here. and finally, i think we can ask the european commission to ensure that all legislative proposals are accompanied by an impact assessment tool, that we see why they are necessary.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that with the lisbon treaty we have made a very great step forward for the citizens by incorporating the social market economy into the principles of european policy. it is clear that we as europeans, as parliamentarians, expect this social market economy to be translated into reality. we are now looking at the internal market and the issues of the internal market as a whole, and yet we are missing some of what could have been there. it is not enough for us to have social impact assessments of european legislation. what we need is the implementation of a social clause so that what was promised, namely that the citizens will really have something of europe, actually happens and it does not just remain on paper. it is not just the social clause that is at issue, but also such important things as services of general economic interest, which need special protection. i am very much missing the fact that the european commission is finally tackling this issue or is also looking at workers' issues a little more intensively than would be necessary, for example, in the context of the posting of workers directive, where we are still waiting to see what will happen. and then i get really angry . we have been calling on the european commission for a long time to finally introduce a system of class actions at european level. there are already six or seven different studies that the european commission has carried out. what is the work programme? another study has already been commissioned. this can't go on. we want proposals and decisions from the european commission in this area.
the commission has already done so. let me briefly touch on three subjects. firstly, i believe that in the area of external relations, the commission, which has a particular responsibility here, should take a more conceptual approach to the eastern partnership than has been the case so far and demand that there be a multilateral relationship between the members of the eastern partnership. in particular, we should, in our own interests, assess the strategic value of the eastern partnership much more closely and therefore focus on aspects other than energy. secondly, i do not know what is happening with the structural funds in other areas, but the question of financial management of external relations programmes is unbearably slow. by the time the money runs out, the real political purpose will be over in a year. we have seen this in the middle east programmes, we have seen this in the eastern partnership and in many other areas. i know that this also concerns parliament and the budgetary regulation of the european union, and that this is so problematic after the procedures we had with the santer commission over ten years ago. but if we really want to put this large sum of money to good use, and not just to have a catch-all effect or to be always late because the train has already gone in the other direction, but also to pursue a policy of interest in our view, then we must in principle get the commission to come up with some ideas on how decisions on the preparation and implementation of programmes and the disbursement of funds in this area can be made much faster. the third point, commissioner: the question of the transatlantic economic council and economic relations with the united states, and their importance not only economically but also strategically, seems to me to be somewhat under-exposed in the commission's paper.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has an incredibly large programme for 2011, and i would like to say quite frankly that i would have liked a better prioritisation. we now have some 30 directorates-general, we have 26 commissioners, and i do not think that every directorate-general or commissioner has to prove his right to exist by putting forward a lot of legislative proposals. i am firmly convinced that it would sometimes be good for europe if we really set priorities, if we confined ourselves to the essentials. europe is not strong when it takes care of as many things as possible, but we should sometimes take more time for important things. i would like to mention a few points in particular in the area of external trade, which i have the honour of coordinating in my group. i would be glad if we could really make progress on the transatlantic relationship - elmar brok has already spoken about this - at last. the tec has been on the agenda for years, but it has not yet been a success. when you look at how the world has changed in these years, how the economic power of the different regions of the world is shifting, it is urgent that we work much closer with the americans. i would be glad if the commission as a whole would always be aware in its work that the european parliament has been a co-legislator in the field of external trade since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would be very pleased if the commission would pay very close attention to this and, above all, take a lot of time for dialogue and transparent, joint work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals. the expectations of the communication new skills for new jobs were very high. it should be an impetus to prepare workers in europe for the ecological change. and above all, after we as parliament had already developed a number of ideas in our resolution on green jobs, we expected the commission to take these ideas up, develop them further and then propose concrete measures on how the ecological change could create new jobs or qualify existing jobs so that they would be preserved, and in this way greenize european industrial society for the benefit of workers. but what do you do instead? you're bringing up the old flexicurity. do you really think deregulation will create new jobs? we have just seen that in the crisis, precarious jobs are the first to be eliminated. all i can say is that you are mistaken if you think that a knowledge-based sustainable economy can be built on insecurity and poor working conditions. they are betting on poverty through work rather than contributing to wealth. but poverty is a poor companion to progress. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. please continue to improve your communication and do not stop at this low level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. the fight against unemployment and the objective of full employment is one of our most urgent tasks. mrs harkin has also said that the people of europe do not want concepts, they want concrete solutions. thank you for your initiative. we see a lot of good approaches here. the two colleagues in my group have responded to this. but i also think that improvements are needed here, because more flexibility and more mobility do not create a single new job. i would like to endorse mrs schroedter's remarks. we need good and secure jobs in europe, and the member states and companies must ensure that they are permanent jobs that people can use to earn a living. this must become the rule again, and we must also act from the european level and set the right course. in your agenda you speak of new forms of employment contracts which provide for weaker rights for workers in relation to entry into employment. they call it "open ended contractual arrangements". i do not think that this will create new jobs. experience shows - and the spd-led federal government in germany already found this out some years ago - that the weakening of workers' rights does not create a single job. such things only result in a transfer from good jobs to precarious jobs. and that can't be the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. liu xiaobo won the nobel peace prize, and we were happy about that because it expressed the universality of human rights, which is at the core of our political identity. and we were happy to see that this joy was shared by many countries around the world and by many people in china as well. the chinese government has reacted harshly to the awarding of this nobel peace prize, overly harshly, internally and externally. i think that's a shame. i do not think that we should give any special credit to this negative development - i will put it this way - by making a caricature of what china is today. i must respectfully - though i agree with my predecessor in supporting the call for liu xiaobo's freedom - make it clear that i think it is not only wrong but harmful to label the reality of china today as a terrorist state. i do not think that is true, nor does it help the positive relations between us and china that are necessary. china will have to accept that we are standing up for human rights as universal rights, because we are not going to stop doing so, but we should not confuse this with a strategy of confrontation, which is not something anyone has, at least those who are standing up for human rights in china. china, as i have said before and will say again at the end, has reacted extremely harshly to this nobel peace prize. it is trying, for example, to put pressure on other countries through diplomacy not to participate in the ceremony in oslo. this is simply unacceptable, this parliament will not accept this, and i am therefore glad that the president has already agreed that this parliament will also be represented in oslo.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion to this important debate and to the questions put by a number of members, two points. the first is that the european union, as it has done every year, will of course be associated as a whole and at least at the same level as last year, and that is the case with all the union's diplomatic delegations, at the award of the nobel peace prize to mr liu xiaobo in oslo on 10 december. that's the first of the elements i wanted to deliver to you today. the european union, the second, has been conducting a regular dialogue with china on human rights for the past 15 years and we attach great importance to the continuation of this exercise, which seems to us more relevant than ever as voices are being raised in china to widen the human rights area. it is with mutual respect and a deep understanding of the chinese political context that we will continue to address the universal human rights issues, and in particular the case of mr liu xiaobo, nobel peace prize laureate, with the same chinese authorities.
a writer. - the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final) i'm glad you're here today to answer the questions. on 18 may parliament adopted by a large majority a resolution on the simplification of the common agricultural policy. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the new agricultural policy is implemented in accordance with the principles of the treaty of rome. i'm afraid i have to pour a little wormwood here. i just came from a discussion with farmers. these farmers have expressed the fear that your proposals on the first pillar, commissioner, could lead not to less bureaucracy but to a massive increase in bureaucracy. commissioner cioloş, the european union cannot be held responsible for every bureaucratic effort. the member states also have a considerable share of responsibility, and that is why i ask you to do everything possible to ensure that the reform to be introduced is implemented with the least possible administrative and control burden, so that farmers can devote themselves to their main task, namely food production, and do not have to read a legal text for every operation out in the field or in the stable, which they must take into account in their work. in no other agricultural region in the world are farmers faced with so many constraints and regulations as in the european union. the commission is not yet responsible for this. it is now up to you to be the first commissioner - if you ever step down, i do not know when - who can say: not more bureaucracy, but less has been created during my time in office. as rapporteur for the agricultural reform, i am asking you to find a solution together so that we can achieve this objective.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the reduction of bureaucracy and the simplification of laws and regulations in all the policies of the european union are top priorities for us parliamentarians. this is the only way to ensure that taxpayers' money is used efficiently and that our policies are more widely accepted by the public. this is why it is important in the agricultural sector that such simplifications also reach farmers directly. after all, they're supposed to produce food, not write books. we must also ensure that the burden on local authorities is reduced, at a time when local budgets are becoming increasingly impoverished. regulations must be designed in such a way that they cannot be unnecessarily inflated. we should also ensure that sanctions are proportionate to their infringement. the key to a sustainable and efficient policy is that it places more emphasis on advice than on punishment. because only in this way can we give our citizens, our farmers, incentives to implement new knowledge and to meet the demands of society. we should bear all this in mind when we discuss the future of the common agricultural policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers' incomes are not affected by the increase in the number of farmers. we need to work together more than against each other.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the protection of bees is in the best interests of agriculture. many farmers are also beekeepers. we are seeing a decline in bee populations in many regions of europe. the key here is to examine the causes objectively and to counteract them. it is therefore good that the budget for the national bee programmes has been increased from eur 26 million to eur 32 million by 2013. but that's not good enough. we should ensure that these programmes continue beyond 2013. it is also particularly important that we improve and facilitate the exchange of expertise between researchers, beekeepers and farmers. we should pay particular attention to the control of diseases and pests in bees in the short term. we can't leave the beekeepers to fight alone here. there is an urgent need to produce better and, above all, more uniform statistics from all member states across the eu. because we must finally deal with the facts and not just speculation. the number of beekeepers is also decreasing, and we should invest more in their training. we should give more support to young beekeepers and full-time workers so that the profession of beekeeping has a future and does not die out. alde supports this resolution.
i have to say, madam president, we don't have enough bees, we don't have enough beekeepers. the steady decline in bee populations over the years is a clear warning sign. the mass extinction of bees caused by varroa mites and the unexplained colony exodus are unfortunately a reality. therefore, support for the bee sector must be ensured beyond 2013. two points are particularly important to me. first, without extensive scientific research, the extinction of bees cannot be effectively explained, let alone effectively controlled. secondly, it is a question of the product, of honey: imports must be subject to the same quality standards as products produced in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the committee on agriculture and rural development and the rapporteur, mrs lulling, have put forward some good proposals. i would ask the commission to take this as a basis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. bees play a vital role in our ecosystem. firstly, they are important for the conservation of biodiversity, and secondly, biodiversity is important for the conservation of beehives, not only because this year is dedicated to biodiversity, but also because they contribute to our own survival. the common agricultural reform should include efforts to prevent monocultures and to increase the respect for the diversity of crop rotations. i do not want to talk about pesticides and plant protection products today. i think that in order to have a reasonable bee health it is also important to promote and develop research in this field and to improve the coordination of different research projects in the various member states. we should certainly continue to support the beekeeping sector beyond 2013 and ensure that there are enough bee colonies and people like beekeepers to support them in the future.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments. the commission is not if you listened to the president of the european council, you heard a different tone than the president of the commission. the president-in-office has given a report, mr van rompuy, and if i let it affect me in this way, i can only come back to the conclusion that everything is easy, everything is nice. if i listen to mr barroso, i am more inclined to take the view that - and i quote a sentence here - 'some of the contributions we have heard in recent weeks have not contributed to greater coherence'. that is what the president of the commission says about the council you represent to us, as if everything were in harmony. no, the reality in europe is different. the reality in europe is that the eu is falling apart into three parts: the franco-german directorate, the rest of the eurozone and the rest that is not part of the eurozone, with a special status for the united kingdom. this is the reality in europe. and the special position of the united kingdom is something to look at. the franco-german merkel-sarkozy directorate has made a deal with mr cameron. everyone knows that and it needs to be said. the deal is: "i need a treaty revision for the stability pact". "ok", says cameron, "it's not easy for me because i have backbenchers in the house of commons who don't want that, so i get another budget". then mrs merkel and mr sarkozy say: 'all right, we will do it like this'. this is the reality in europe. this is not only not in keeping with the spirit of the community, it is an approach which destroys the cohesion of the european union and will also permanently destroy the european union. i'm afraid there are some who have an interest in it. they're clapping their hands. that's where the guys are. (applause from the centre) if we do not want these people to be in charge of this continent in the future, we must take europe in a different direction. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i'll try to keep going. mr langen is always easily agitated. the reform of the eu's stability pact is made conditional on the approval of a country that is not a member of the euro at all. mrs merkel is talking about a revision of the treaty in a situation where no one in this house can foresee what is going on in ireland. and i do not know whether the revision of the eu treaty in ireland is going as smoothly as your report on the european council sounds. mrs merkel says the private sector must be involved. i would like to ask you, mr rehn, a question about the private sector in ireland. how did irish banks pass the stress tests? could you tell us that for once? the actions of mrs merkel are a stress test for the euro. i'll tell you what's going on. the involvement of the private sector is good, it is right. we in the european parliament have - and i remain - very unanimously decided to involve the private sector, namely the introduction of a europe-wide financial transaction tax. (applause from the centre) and then at the g8 summit, they talked about it briefly, and then they said, "no, we don't want a financial transaction tax". and we said, "yeah, ok, let's just leave it at that". the financial transaction tax has been buried in the afternoon over coffee. if there is a private sector involvement that affects this private sector, it is this. now they say the united kingdom does not want that. does the united kingdom really determine everything in europe? what if we start with the financial transaction tax, for example, already in the eurozone, and say, within the eurozone, we will bring the private financial sector on this. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i will repeat what he said, so that the translators can say: "one people, one empire, one leader". that was the man's remark. i'm ready to go, but if this fellow walks through the hall and shouts: "one people, one empire, one leader", then i just want to say one thing: the people who said that in germany are people whose spirit i am fighting against, but i believe that this gentleman is closer to that spirit than i am.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it's almost hard to talk in this heated atmosphere. it is also a rather large expression of the situation in which the european union could find itself if we do not once again set up a more careful and determined european policy. my view, martin schulz, is that the problem is not the small change in the treaty that germany wants and needs - because the financial crisis is not a natural disaster. the problem is that the european council, and especially the representatives of the large countries in the european council, are no longer able to ensure that a positive spark from the brussels meetings will be reflected in the societies of the member states of the european union in this crisis. i think it is really bizarre how quickly this pro-european spirit has been lost. i find it bizarre that germany, a country which has benefited so much from solidarity in our common history, both old and new, is no longer able to turn a debate which is today marked by selfishness and small-mindedness into a discussion of why it is right that the member states in europe have so closely linked their destinies and why the council and you, mr van rompuy, are no longer able to explain to the citizens whose insecurity joseph daul has so aptly described why we can only emerge from this crisis together and not in competition with each other. the complete absence of this spirit is one of our problems. the second is that there is no honest political statement that we are not saving every greek or every irishman, but that we are saving banks on a case-by-case basis, and that ireland is not just an irish emergency, but at the same time a german emergency and a british emergency, even if you don't like to hear that. i believe that this honest statement is the basis for citizens actually agreeing with what is being decided in brussels in these times of crisis. i would like to say, thirdly, that i think mr verhofstadt is absolutely right. the economic government is what needs to take shape now. everybody knows that. and whenever the council or the commission declare that they want to take the necessary steps as soon as possible, i am alarmed because it is precisely this pro-european spirit of solidarity that is lacking, and these necessary steps towards integration are not being taken. it is one thing to talk about tax dumping in ireland now. something has to change. how is the other question. when, in what time periods, is a second question. but overall, the member states must coordinate their tax policies, otherwise the european union will not do well. there is this one debate, which we should not take lightly, because it has also been prominent: the participation of creditors, the restructuring of debts, also among those who directly caused the crisis. i have to tell you, i have a really hard time judging what's right and wrong. we know that spain and portugal are counted. we know that it is only a matter of time before they will also apply for solidarity and crisis management. whether we are doing ourselves a favour by involving the creditors now, or whether it is not better to actually say now: we want this economic government, we want strong regulation of the banking sector, we want the financial transaction tax or the wealth tax on those who do business in the crisis. this is a balancing act we have to do together. but there is no point in pretending that the debate does not have to be decided. thank you for your attention. (the president cut the speaker off)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not if the heads of state or government have agreed to create a permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard financial stability in the euro area, i can only welcome that. the results of the months of work of the van rompuy task force on the design of economic policy management - although i see them in a differentiated way - leave much to be desired. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, and has been involved in the preparation of the council of europe's annual report on the fight against fraud. this is not only completely counterproductive, but i also think it is absurd. the experience of the stability and growth pact so far does not seem to have taught anyone anything. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the ban on bailouts and the stability and growth pact are destroying the solidarity between the countries in the monetary union. does the economy dictate what the politics have to do? once again, the consequences of the crisis are being borne by the people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. this will further increase the burden on the countries concerned and make it more difficult for them to recover. it is not at all worthwhile to increase pressure on countries such as ireland, greece or portugal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want a social and just europe based on the principle of solidarity. the primacy of politics over economics must be maintained or restored.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one thing is important for citizens to understand: the european union is not in debt. we are talking about a debt crisis in our member states. the european union is the only political level in europe that is debt-free. i want to keep it that way, too. but we are bound together by the euro in a community of destiny. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. deauville was a mistake. germany and france have been blackmailed by the united kingdom. the commission must impose the sanctions, not the finance minister. mr van rompuy, in the prevention phase, automaticity was sacrificed in deauville. the finance ministers must decide on this again. these are the same people who have previously triggered the financial crisis and the debt crisis in the member states. what is economic government? everyone is talking about the economic government. what does that mean, exactly? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. that's a big question mark for you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the challenge. that is why the european semester is so important. that's why it has to be done. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
count lambsdorff, you are a member of the fdp's executive board. is your statement 'deauville was a mistake' also the opinion of the chairman of your party and the vice-chancellor of the federal republic of germany, or is it your private opinion? can this be used as an fdp opinion or just the opinion of count lambsdorff?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course i'm prepared to answer. mr martin schulz is a member of the presidium of the spd and will make statements here on one occasion or another which are probably not 100% accurate. i would like to say one thing, however: if mr schulz can show me who was there from the fdp in deauville, i would be grateful to him. we have made our views on this subject relatively clear since then. i think that the crucial point, namely the role of automation in the preventive phase, has been criticised by us in very clear terms. if we get the contract amendment, then that'll be healed in retrospect. but this decision of deauville was clearly a mistake.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have heard a lot of criticism here of the deauville decision, but everyone knows that at the beginning of the last meeting of your task force, mr president van rompuy, there were 20 points still open. and since they are subject to the principle of unanimity, there had to be a solution. everybody knows that. it is also well known that the two largest member states are the ones who have sinned in the stability and growth pact, germany and france in 2004, but we also know that there was a red-green federal government in germany at the time. that is why mr schulz's abuse of language is totally misplaced. if we are talking today about the stability and growth pact getting a bigger bite, the first condition is that the member states finally adhere to it. what good is the biggest bite if no one sticks to it? that's all i needed. we have six legislative proposals: two are council regulations and four are joint regulations of the council and the european parliament. i don't understand some of the whining. we shall be taking part in the codecision procedure. i would like to say that my group will support the commission's proposals in this area. then we'll have to negotiate with the council. that's the reality. why are we so humble and insulting third parties who are part of the legislative process, instead of exercising our own rights? let me say something about the need for changes in the treaty. i think that the treaty was extended to the limits of its possibilities on 9 may. the rescue aid must be justified in accordance with article 122. the fact that the member states do not want this because then the commission and parliament might be involved is a mistake in my view. it will not be enough to change article 136, we need a sound legal basis for the bailout and all the other questions will be resolved afterwards.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in the debate this morning mrs harms raised the question of why the spark is no longer being passed from the summits to the people, why there is no new courage, why there is no new confidence arising from the summit discussions. i have listened to you this morning and now, mr barroso, or mr van rompuy, or the council, and i have a feeling why the spark does not go out. the spark doesn't even jump over here in the hall, look around. it would be important, of course, if more colleagues were present. why aren't they here? it's wrong that they're not there. but they don't really learn anything new, either. you are telling us things which have already been in the newspapers twenty times, and you are not answering the very sharp questions which have been asked. what about the financial transaction tax? mr schulz asked about it several times. where's the answer? it is not on the agenda of the g20 summit in seoul. i want an explanation. i would also like to know why the european council, the belgian presidency of the council, says that it is in favour of a global feasibility study and not a european one. why not? do you not see on the council side the impasse you are leading this issue into? and i would ask you again, mr barroso: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. but don't shy away any longer. for europe alone, we would be talking about 200 billion a year. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has any objections to the commission's proposal to make a budget for the next financial year. we would come forward with an initiative. you have to fill the roles with life, and then the spark jumps over again. that's what we expect of you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there was an incident here this morning during the european council debate which i myself do not wish to go into because i was the target of an insult. but what i'm saying is, there are levels where i can't be offended and i don't take offence at that level, because to offend me, you have to have a certain level of seriousness. i would like to thank you very much for the many expressions of solidarity which i have received in this house since then. i would like to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen from all the political groups. this is a sign of our common, democratic and pro-european conviction, which is shared by the overwhelming majority of this house. for that, my sincere thanks! (parliament adopted the resolution)
mr president, as the chair of the delegation for relations with the korean peninsula i ask the plenary to strongly condemn yesterday’s artillery attack by the dprk on a south korean island. (applause) there have been severe casualties among the south korean military and especially among the civilian population of that island. villages were burning and the population had to be evacuated. we welcome the announcement by the rok president lee myung-bak that despite this violent act he intends to avoid escalation on the korean island. we welcome that baroness ashton, the high representative, has acted in a concerned manner with other international actors, our allies and our strategic partner, the republic of korea, in condemning this clear violation of the un korean armistice agreement. we also expect china to clearly condemn this act. we call upon the dprk to avoid any further escalation and to undertake all necessary efforts to maintain peace and stability on the korean peninsula. we would like to convey our condolences to the families of the victims. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against product and brand piracy is an extremely important issue. twenty years ago, people would laugh at someone buying a rolex watch for ten dollars. the sales market in this high-end segment was not affected. today the situation is completely different. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. t-shirts, toys, security clothing, and intellectual property are counterfeited. it is not just economic interests that are at stake, but also labour, environmental, health and social standards. if we want a just world, we must fight product and brand piracy vigorously.
in writing. - i agreed to the report because it brings a clear and lasting improvement in patient information about medicines. advertising of medicinal products is still not permitted. the doctor-patient relationship is not adversely affected by the directive, and the regulatory competence of the provider remains unambiguous. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (rohs) because the extension of the scope to all electronic equipment represents a significant improvement. however, i think it is problematic that there are so many exceptions. in particular, in the field of renewable energy, photovoltaic modules which are partly composed of cadmium telluride compounds are not covered by this directive. this substance is not only harmful to health but also dangerous and should therefore be classified under the rohs directive. the risk that photovoltaic systems would have to disappear completely from roofs would not be eliminated, but there are numerous cadmium telluride-free alternatives on the market. i therefore object to the decision of the majority of parliament and the council on this point.
in writing. − though not very ambitious, the first reading compromise improves the current legislation – i therefore voted in favour. besides the new methodology for substance restrictions, one key improvement is the open scope: all electric and electronic equipment, including equipment for the generation of electric currents, will in the medium term fall under the rohs legislation. a major drawback, however, is the long list of exclusions, including photovoltaic panels. excluding this decisive ‘clean’ technology from environmental legislation will send the wrong signal, eu-wide and globally. this is about setting the right regulatory framework for coherent sustainable investments! even if the production of photovoltaic panels with hazardous substances like cadmium telluride might be more cost-efficient, less problematic alternatives have existed for a long time and have proved to function excellently. i do not see any need, therefore, to cover our roofs and fields with potentially hazardous waste, shifting the disposal challenge to future generations. on this point, i strongly disagree with the position and decision of the ep’s and council’s majority.
in writing. the report is a good one, taking into account most of the concerns of industry and environmental protection in a balanced way. we shall certainly not be able to achieve complete satisfaction with such a complex subject, but the approximation value is very high.
in writing. - i am very pleased that the report by the epp and the ecr has been adopted. thus the poisoned demagogic work of the opponents had no chance. i would like to congratulate the authors, our coordinator, mr daniel caspary, and the whole group on the fact that we have shown our unity on this important issue.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank mrs kolarska-bobińska for her very good and intensive work. and because i am grateful, i also agree with the report, unlike some of my colleagues who praise it, but who will try to radically change some passages tomorrow with some key amendments. i would therefore like to respond to the request that has been made on several occasions that we should be more ambitious. i am not sure whether what is being proposed is ambitious or whether it is not exaggerated. i am very grateful to the honourable member for having put forward a realistic policy, because that is what is required of us in times of economic and financial crisis. not unpacking new dreams, but presenting something that we can then prove in one, two, three or four years that we have done it. i am very grateful to her for pointing out the importance of the energy mix and the responsibility of the member states, who then decide for themselves what they want. we will not dictate to them, there is only one perspective and that is renewable energy. the perspective is called renewable energy, coal, oil, gas, nuclear energy, and it's also called nuclear fusion. i would be glad if the commissioner would keep all that she has written and all that we have supported by a large majority. it has pointed to the question of financial responsibility, the need to promote and build infrastructure and not just to demand and say: the money has to come from somewhere, and it has also pointed to the responsibility of companies. and that brings us to the single market. the point here is not to demand a new package and new laws, but to demand that they be implemented and checked, and to be realistic so that what we have set out in the guidelines is also reflected in reality. last but not least, we cannot just sit back and wait and then be surprised when energy prices become so high that citizens can no longer afford them. is it ambitious or irresponsible to just go ahead and raise the cost and then complain about energy poverty among citizens? the debate is sometimes confined to industry, but it will affect citizens in the months and years ahead. i would like to see some of the debates begin with a consideration of what we are going to do at the end.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the copenhagen conference, the european union decided rather quickly to proceed from now on with a step-by-step and pragmatic approach. we can't go all or nothing anymore. the building blocks for a post-2012 framework should be gradually laid down. we are aware that negotiations on the establishment of an ambitious framework to combat climate change beyond 2012 are progressing very slowly. the participants' visions of the future differ widely. this was evident recently at the last official round of negotiations in tianjin, where very limited progress was made. in this context, ladies and gentlemen, the environment council and the european council have finalized the position of the european union, particularly for the cancún conference. the positions of the other institutions and of course your motion for a resolution have been taken into account. it is already clear that cancún will not provide a legally binding framework for the period after 2012. as the content of the cancún package of measures is not yet clear, the european union's position, which will also provide the necessary flexibility for the european negotiators, includes several elements. in any case, it is clear that the cancún package of measures must be balanced. it must therefore include elements which can be applied to both developed and developing countries. what are the main elements of the eu's position? first and foremost, the need to achieve a balanced result. balance between the negotiating rights under the kyoto protocol and the convention, as well as within the framework itself. secondly, the conditions for a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol. thirdly, the main elements of the bali action plan are common vision, mitigation, adaptation, technologies and financing. the eu remains of the view that a single legally binding instrument is the best way to shape the post-2012 framework. as this position gave rise to a great deal of misunderstanding last year and is also very important in international negotiations, the eu intends to adopt a flexible approach. flexible with regard to a second commitment period, subject to certain conditions. what are those terms? all major economies should be included in that post-2012 framework. the framework must be ambitious and effective, environmental integrity must be guaranteed and progress must be made in reforming current market mechanisms and in introducing new ones. the developed countries must also demonstrate that they are fulfilling their financial commitments. in particular, the rapid start-up financing. the european union and its member states have submitted the first comprehensive and transparent implementation report on these financial commitments and are contributing eur 2.2 billion in 2010. i hope that this report will help to restore confidence between the parties. the belgian presidency considers that concrete and specific measures are needed to meet the expectations of the parties and also to ensure confidence in the multilateral process under the un framework convention. we will do everything we can to help achieve the objectives of the european union. as always, we are counting on you, mr president, to help spread this message and, of course, to reinforce it.
member of the commission. − mr president, i of course share very much what we just heard from the belgian presidency. i am also looking forward to working with you in cancún. it is very clear that the legally-binding deal that the eu was ready for last year and that we are still ready for will, unfortunately, not be the outcome of cancún – not because of us, but because others are not ready for it. it is true that we are heading for a package which is balanced but, i would also say, substantial and ambitious. we were actually the first this spring, in february/march, to come forward with the idea of pursuing a stepwise approach in order to build on the copenhagen accord and secure the momentum now continuing in cancún. but although there seems to be agreement that this is what we should bring home from cancún – a balanced package – it is easy to say that is what every party would like but more difficult to agree on what that then means. what is a substantial balanced package? here i would say that, seen from a european perspective, it is clear that we will insist on the need to anchor mitigation pledges, set up an enhanced mrv system and promote the carbon markets. we should, of course, also have decisions on redd+, adaptation, technology, finance and capacity-building. all these elements will have to be reflected in a package that we consider balanced. one thing i would like to emphasise is that we, the european union, must remain clear on our conditions for a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol. we must use these conditions to raise the level of ambition and to get others to move. the conditions attached to a possible second commitment period are very important for environmental integrity and the ambition of the future climate regime. the eu alone under a second commitment period is neither sufficient nor credible. therefore we need to stick to our conditions to lever positive responses from our partners. i must say that it is my clear impression – also from the pre-cop – that there is growing acknowledgement of our arguments on this. the draft resolution that we have in front of us addresses all the areas that i just mentioned. the commission welcomes very much the guidance being offered by parliament, even if not all of it can be taken fully on board. to mention just one example: some of you suggest that we have another target than the two-degree target. a main priority for us in cancún will be not to start reopening the copenhagen accord and not to start backtracking from what we already have. i would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise that the eu needs to deliver on our fast-start pledges from copenhagen. i can tell you honestly today: we are almost there. but we still need eur 200 million from member states in order to be exactly where we promised to be in copenhagen. i take it that you can hear the difference between being able to say, in cancún, on behalf of the european union: ‘we have delivered’, and saying: ‘we have almost delivered’. i really think we should use the remaining days up to cancún to try to deliver all we pledged in copenhagen. i have not mentioned targets: not because they are not important, as they definitely are, and the eu, this year as well as last, would say that we are still ready to go to 30% provided others deliver as well. no change there. if targets are not being debated that much now, i think this is because a lot of other parties are not that ready – for reasons that you know – to discuss targets in cancún. i think what is important is to anchor the pledges from the copenhagen accord into the formal text. from that we can improve things. but i must also say that, no matter what comes out of cancún, i think it is crucial for us after cancún to continue to have an intelligent climate policy with ambitious targets, whilst at the same time handling our energy challenges, as you have just been discussing. we can push for innovation and job creation and we can set ambitious targets. my final point is that we are working to ensure the implementation of the lisbon treaty – obviously – and i can assure you that we will inform parliament’s delegation at every stage of the progress of the negotiations. of course there will be daily briefings with parliament’s delegation, and we will try to work very closely together. we strongly welcome the support indicated in the motion for a resolution to ensure that the eu speaks with one voice. i think that this is one of the main challenges in cancún: whoever speaks on behalf of the european union, our partners outside europe can be sure that they will be met with the same kind of priorities and the same kind of messages. that is the way our priorities will best be heard.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if there is one lesson to be drawn from copenhagen, where you, madam commissioner, hold the presidency, it is that the european union must speak with one voice at such conferences in the future. we may have differences of opinion here and there, but if we as europeans are already speaking with different voices there, then our weight will not be credible, and if we are not credible, then other people will not follow us. why should they? it is therefore right that the figures we agreed at the end of 2007 under chancellor merkel should remain in force and form the basis of this negotiation. i share your view that the ambitious 2°c targets should not be seriously questioned today on a much lower level, because that makes it extremely difficult to achieve these targets and people run away from us. i'm very concerned that we're questioning our intellectual property. our industry invests money and manpower to develop things. if we go now and loosen the fence around this intellectual property and leave the holes in it as they are at the moment, then we lose the valuable parts, which is our property. i am very much in favour of technology transfer, but our companies must also see the value in investing in it, and that is why intellectual property must not be diluted. i am also inclined to ask our partners in the world to make serious commitments. but they have to be credible, and they have to be feasible for these countries. otherwise, they will do the opposite of what we want them to do, which is to walk away from us. so credibly performing in cancún is an important point. the big decisions will be taken later in johannesburg, but in cancun we should start the field. i'm a farmer by trade. if the field is not in order, the harvest will not be. let's focus on the good fields.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm worried that we're going from one extreme to the other. before copenhagen we may have had too much ambition, and now i am worried that we may have too little ambition before cancún. i therefore think it is good that parliament's resolution addresses all the issues that we think are necessary, that there is progress and that we are already achieving results in cancún. there is one big point we are calling for: that the eu should change its strategy. before copenhagen we became dependent on what is made in the united states, perhaps on what is made in china. it didn't work there, it won't work in cancun. so we should be doing climate change for our own good. that is why the majority in the committee, and i hope also in the plenary tomorrow, are calling for an increase in our targets from 20% to 30%. it's going to be necessary during the trial anyway. we must at least reach south africa. i also think we're still on the wrong track with kyoto. we're making it dependent on all the others. i think our offer should be to do kyoto ii. we're not having a problem with that. we're doing it. finally, the eu with one voice: i saw how this worked in nagoya. we had a microphone for the eu, so different people could speak into it, but they had to convey the same message. i hope that the council and the commission will do the same for cancún.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the cancún climate conference must put constructive pressure on states to move international cooperation and national legislation forward on climate protection. as part of an alliance of responsibility, the eu must demonstrate political leadership independent of the us and be measured against the principle of climate justice. this means that there must be a second commitment period for the industrialized countries under the kyoto protocol. we need to raise more money for climate finance. the eu must enter the negotiations on long-term financing with an open hand. the eu must offer ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gases. the temperature on earth must not rise by more than 1.5 degrees celsius. this objective will generate technological innovation and create jobs in the economic crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu-africa summit is looking promising. the summit will be all about partnership on equal footing for a better future. two months after the millennium conference in new york, we now have a unique opportunity to take further concrete and binding steps to combat poverty in africa. we are all of course following with great concern china's extensive activities to secure its own resources on the african continent. much of this is reminiscent of the habitus of colonial states. the european union must therefore press for a regulation which is oriented towards the common good and the social progress of african countries. it creates jobs, it's sustainable. i therefore expressly welcome the commission's proposal to introduce effective controls in the context of raw material management. the aim is to support, together with our african partners, structural policies that promote sustainable growth and climate protection in order to get out of the poverty trap. we support the commission's proposals on social cohesion because they help to create jobs. the people of africa are able to work for a living. i would like to conclude by summarizing the following priorities: first, the african union and its representation in all international bodies - the security council, the g20, the pan-african parliament - must be strengthened. the millennium development goals are to be achieved in africa through further initiatives by 2015. in the case of eu-africa economic and trade agreements, ensure that the social standards required by the international labour organisation (ilo) are set out in a binding manner.
member of the commission. − madam president, this has been an extremely rich debate and i would just like to emphasise a couple of points in answer to some questions. i think it would be wrong not to recognise that africa has changed substantially. africa has more self-confidence; and good reason for it. economic growth is there and, in a way, africa has dealt with the economic and financial crises better than europe has done. africa is much more organised and much stronger – even more than the european commission – and has more power in the form of the african union. at the same time it would be wrong to compare the african union with the european union, because they are different types of unions and we should not try to compare them one to one. however, it is very clear that there is an african union. it is also important that africa understands its power in the international arena. african countries are looking for representation in accordance with their political way. that means that this summit is a very particular summit. it is definitely not a donor/recipient summit. it is a summit that perhaps may not even be very high profile, but we need to make that relation thrive. i believe that we need to address two critical issues. one is a more simple issue: that achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs) should be done in a sustainable way through inclusive growth. that is why we address the issue of energy. that is why much focus is placed on sustainable agriculture, because without it our results in achieving mdgs and fighting poverty and providing more stability will be under threat. the second issue is very serious political debate. yes, good governance and human rights are on the agenda. but it is not the case any more that one side is listening and the other one is making its point. it is a two-way street. on the one hand, that is a challenge and on the other hand it is an opportunity. human rights and good governance are for us the backbone of stability in our societies. it is not that we wish to preach. however, we believe you cannot achieve the mdgs and eradicate poverty without addressing these issues. that means that in all the programmes that we address, good governance is key. in the ex-ante procedure, we do not engage with governments where we see no hope of good governance. we then go on to deal with ngos; we try to support the population by other means. however, in each and every project we increasingly emphasise the role of good governance and human rights. sustainability is also to the fore in our policy. we do not finance the serengeti projects, for example. no eu money is involved in any project that damages the environment. each project is evaluated on the basis of an environmental impact assessment. we have a very sustainable approach to the projects. but at the same time it is very clear that we cannot expect that a continent that will double its population in a very short time will not have an impact on the environment. and again, our role now in the current situation is really to look for sustainable growth; and renewable energy is the key to providing such a type of growth. i believe that this is a very particular summit. it is a summit that is not so much about political slogans, but more about the trust that already exists. that is rather fragile. we could benefit from a lot from these relations, but there could be a lot of damage. i believe that this summit will have a lasting impact, because i believe that the emphasis is on the right areas. we are looking from africa’s point of view at africa’s political role. we have provided a lot of support to bring africa to where it is today, and we are committed to moving africa forward with our support, and definitely by encouraging africa to have ownership of the processes in africa.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to what the commission has just told us, and as a conclusion, i would like to say that the third eu-africa summit in tripoli should send an important political signal to intensify our cooperation with africa in the years to come. this will involve better cooperation on the challenges facing the two continents, better exploitation of the opportunities offered by the combination of their enormous potential and better coordination of positions on the international stage. african and european leaders will no doubt provide guidance on the way forward. the debate has given rise to a number of specific guidelines. we will of course pass them on. all contributions are welcome, particularly from members of parliament. i would also like to answer a specific question. some of you have specifically mentioned the economic partnership agreements, which are a sensitive issue and were already a major point of disagreement at the lisbon summit in 2007. given the strong african reluctance to conclude economic partnership agreements, some actors are asking for a political signal to take african positions into account. others argue for a much more proactive and positive approach to the nature of our proposals. at the summit we really feel that the best thing to do would be to seek an agreement to at least relaunch these negotiations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession in december. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the situation in western sahara. statements by the council and the commission
member of the commission. − (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy) mr president, i thank this house for a very timely discussion on western sahara. i am answering, on behalf of catherine ashton, on the basis of the oral questions put forward by members of the parliament. the european union is worried about the events which took place in laâyoune at the beginning of november, and it regrets the loss of lives. now calm has returned to laâyoune, even though underlying tensions still remain. the european union is worried that the violent outburst witnessed in laâyoune could hamper the united nations secretary-general’s attempts to find a mutually-acceptable solution to the western sahara conflict. regarding the concerns we are talking about today, we shall make sure that they reach the moroccan authorities through the appropriate channels. the issue of western sahara is on the agenda of the association council’s next meeting in december. it could also be raised within the joint parliamentary committee between the european parliament and morocco. the european union continues to be engaged with morocco on reforms in areas such as good governance, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the european union maintains a good and frank policy dialogue with morocco within the bodies responsible for the follow-up of our association agreement. within this framework, the european union has reminded our partner of the importance of it abiding by the international commitments it has undertaken regarding respect for human rights. as for the use of western sahara’s natural resources, it is morocco’s responsibility to comply with its obligations under international law, including those related to the use of western sahara’s natural resources. the european union supports the efforts of the united nations secretary-general with a view to achieving a just, lasting, and mutually acceptable political solution which will provide for the self-determination of the people of western sahara, in agreement with the security council resolutions.
i have to say, madam president, i have been waiting for 70 minutes for question time to begin and i would like to know when it will take place. the debate is normally interrupted for question time and then resumed.
there will be no question time, because the conference of group chairmen has decided not to hold it. i think that there is no point in waiting any longer.
the commission has already done so. i am pleased with the clear words chosen by commissioner piebalgs. it is important for the european parliament to show its flag clearly and to condemn the brutality that took place there. we have taken a long time as the european parliament to debate the question of western sahara, and i think we have perhaps been too hesitant and have only acted now after the deaths there. i am glad that we can adopt a resolution tomorrow, together with all the parties, which may not go far enough for one or the other group, but it is a broad consensus and a clear signal to morocco and the people of western sahara that the european parliament stands by its basic values. as chairman of the intergroup, i would like to thank all the members who have ensured that western sahara has remained on the agenda and will continue to do so. i'm sure we'll have to keep up with commissioner piebalgs and lady ashton on western sahara.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i support the compromise reached for the resolution. as coordinator of the s&d group in the committee on fisheries, i am also interested in the fisheries agreement with morocco. it is good that we are calling in the resolution for the exploitation of resources in western sahara to be done in accordance with international law. unfortunately, most members of this house are not aware that there is an opinion of the legal service of the parliament which states that the current fisheries agreement with morocco is contrary to international law unless it is proved that the people of western sahara benefit from the agreement. this is not the case at present, and that is why the european commission has put the negotiations on the renewal of the agreement on hold for the time being. i very much hope that a diplomatic solution can be found here. but one thing must be clear: we cannot ignore international law for economic reasons!
the debate was closed with seven motions for resolutions. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 8 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.) written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statement by the commission on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on ukraine. i should like to begin by speaking on behalf of the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs baroness ashton, and commissioner de gucht.
member of the commission, acting on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i have the pleasure of debating the situation in ukraine this evening on behalf of the high representative and vice-president, cathy ashton, who regrets her absence today. today is an important day for ukraine, as its osce presidency for 2013 was announced this morning. it is a privilege, but also a responsibility and it will give ukraine the opportunity to live up to the high expectations. i would now like to focus on our bilateral relationship, which was marked by a summit last monday at the château de val duchesse in brussels, with the participation of president yanukovych, as well as presidents van rompuy and barroso. cathy ashton took part in the discussion on international issues. i was also there to take stock of the prospects of achieving a deep and comprehensive free trade relationship in the near future and with a high level of ambition. our discussions were sincere and i am confident that the summit has put a relationship on the right track which deserves to be broader and more concrete. the two main outcomes of the summit were the adoption of the action plan on the free movement of persons and the signing of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement allowing ukraine to participate in eu programmes. the agenda also includes the internal situation in ukraine, the ongoing negotiations on the future association agreement and the reform process. ukraine is part of our neighbourhood. so we are trying to strengthen this proximity and, in turn, the neighbourhood of ukraine is in motion if you think of this weekend's nato summit and the conclusion, today in brussels, where i was a few hours ago, of bilateral negotiations allowing the european union to support russia's accession to the wto. let's get back to the top. the current government has undertaken a number of important economic reforms which we have welcomed. the first is the law on public procurement, which should play an important role in the fight against corruption. agreements with the imf have been concluded and major reforms have been launched in the key energy sector. the ukrainian government has managed to stabilize the situation in the country quite well. obviously, this is very important. nevertheless, we are concerned by the continuing reports of the deterioration of fundamental freedoms and democratic principles in ukraine. particularly worrying complaints are being made about freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and association. furthermore, as you know, the ukrainian constitutional court recently overturned the 2004 constitution, which was adopted during the orange revolution. the 1996 constitution, which gives more power to the president, has therefore been reinstated. this highly contested decision demonstrates ukraine's need to engage in an open and participatory constitutional reform process. such a process should aim at establishing a sustainable system of balance of power, which would be in line with european standards. this is also a theme that was raised in your resolution of february. another very recent decision of the constitutional court that lends itself to different interpretations concerns the duration of the current parliament's term of office. while the 1996 constitution, which is currently in force, provides for a four-year term, the court ruled that the powers of the current parliament would expire after only five years, as it was elected during the period of the 2004 constitution. this decision reflects the carte-à-charte approach that is increasingly being followed in the actions of the current administration. once again, ukraine is in great need of an open and participatory constitutional reform process rather than decisions made on the basis of circumstances. in recent years, the level of political freedoms in ukraine has been very high, with elections one after another being recognized by credible institutions as being in line with international standards. it is therefore regrettable that the last municipal elections on 31 october were criticized by most observers. even if these criticisms were only technical and procedural, they were still a step backwards. the values and principles of democracy and human rights are fundamental principles for the member states of the european union. these are principles on which no compromise is possible, especially as he is a key partner. shared values for a common future is the challenge of the forthcoming association between ukraine and the european union. as we did at the summit last monday, and as long as the problems persist, we must continue to send very clear messages about respect for fundamental values.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you very much for the statement made here on behalf of the high commissioner, and i have not much to add to it. i think that it can be stated, also for reasons related to parliamentary stability, that more stability and reforms have been decided, and that this is welcome, but we also have to state that the last national parliamentary elections were fair and just, but the local elections were not, because they were changed, and the opposition does not have the same chances to put up lists everywhere. i also think it should be noted that the head of intelligence has supervision over the constitutional court and that judges are replaced there to override the constitution of the orange revolution, these are facts. i would also like to thank you for saying that the questions of common values and fundamental rights are crucial. the european perspective of ukraine is of course also an important point. on the other hand, i am glad that at the summit on monday there was some substantial progress on important issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. progress in this area is a good and important thing. the question of whether the deepened free trade area is developing in a way that brings ukraine closer to the european single market, and also makes it clear that not only the political but also the economic perspective of ukraine is in europe. it doesn't make sense to take over a russian system of economy without having russian raw materials. the european market is already much more interesting for ukraine, and that is what the association agreement should be about. but i think we should clearly see that this is not only in the interests of ukraine, but also in our own interests, and that we should therefore attach importance to the external and internal development of turkey in a way that our common interests are met.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in recent days, large protests have taken place in kiev, luhansk, kharkiv and many other cities and towns in ukraine. tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of citizens of ukraine are on the streets. they're protesting tax laws they think are unfair. if our resolution is addressed to anyone, i believe it is to the citizens of ukraine, who are also guaranteeing that democratic development in ukraine will continue with this protest. our resolution, which expresses our fears of an erosion of democracy, is of course also addressed to the government and the authorities, especially the internal authorities in ukraine, in connection with these protests, so that they allow these protests to continue. tomorrow, hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, are expected in kiev. i must admit that i am following this with great excitement and i am not without concern as regards the development. so far, ladies and gentlemen, to the party. in the last few days, the government has shown that freedom of assembly works. i hope very much that it continues to be so. i think it was very important that we made this resolution cross-party. it would be a big mistake for the development of ukraine if in the future one went with the party of regions on one side of the house and with the party of yulia tymoshenko on the other side of the house. this would not help the democratic development of ukraine. i hope that - even if we adopt this resolution after the summit - especially because of the large protests and people's concerns about the impact of the imf reform, this resolution will be taken seriously and that we will be very closely involved in what is happening now in kiev and in ukraine. i thank you for your attention and i hope that we - and the commission - will continue to work in solidarity with this country, which is so close to us europeans.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a great potential for cooperation between the eu and ukraine. the summit showed that. the visa waiver programme or the association agreement are just two examples. we have also highlighted the potentially positive aspects of this compromise resolution, as can be seen from the aspects of this resolution. but i quote an english proverb: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. it remains to be seen whether the reform packages and reform laws will be put into practice. the commissioner mentioned the law on public procurement. a major exception has already been adopted. all procurement relating to the european football championship is excluded from this law. i can imagine who's gonna get rich. so this is an example where the principle is upheld, but in practice it looks very different. i would like to thank the commissioner very specifically for expressing his concern about freedom of the media, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression and also for clearly stating that the local elections are a step backwards. at least that is how the german translation put it. and that is also the view of the epp group, and we have made that clear. if mr severin does not postulate the need for the internationalisation of internal conflicts, then that is a more elegant formulation for what used to be called the principle of non-interference in internal affairs. we know that well enough, and that should not be the principle on which we act with ukraine. the fact that we want to bring the country closer to europe means that it must also be measured against european standards. and that is why it is right, as mrs harms has said, that we now continue to keep in very close contact with ukraine and to ensure that what has been achieved in terms of democracy and human rights is not called into question by a backward policy.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first answer a factual question on the public procurement law that has been put to me by mrs vălean. when the law was passed we welcomed it. however, subsequent amendments altered the quality of the law. the commission is closely following these recent developments and a change for the better is also one of the conditions for disbursement of our budget support in the energy sector. apart from that, i very much welcome the across-the-board agreement on what the analysis of the current situation in ukraine should be. this is duly reflected in the resolution that will be put to a vote tomorrow. i really believe that if we, as the european parliament and the european union, want to have an influence in this specific matter then having an across-the-board agreement on the principles of such a position is very important. so i welcome this on behalf of the commission and on behalf of the high representative.
the debate was closed with six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on international trade on the report by mr tokia saïfi, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements (2009/2219 (ini)) (a7-0312/2010), the report by mr yannick jadot, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on international trade policy in the face of the challenges of climate change (2010/2103 (ini)) (a7-0310/2010) and the report by mr harlem désir, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements (2009/2201 (ini)) (a7-0317/2001).
i beg your indulgence, but certain things just don't work. you have four minutes to speak. they were at over four and a half minutes despite my interruption. i have a rough line for every congressman. i try to do the best i can to be fair, but they said in the meantime, "i'm looking at the clock too". if we want to have more lively debates, that doesn't necessarily mean we're going to read speeches faster. they should not only think of their french voters - this applies to all colleagues, not only to their own voters - because the homepage offers interpretation to the citizens of the european union. if the interpreters cannot follow, then the rest of europe cannot understand your speech because it was read too quickly. that is why everyone should stick to his speaking time and not take away the speaking time of other colleagues, because that will ultimately depend on the catch-the-eye procedure.
it's my job. because if you pay a 100-meter runner a million dollars to run 100 meters in 10 seconds, then you can pay him 100 million dollars, he won't do it in five seconds. i'm obliged to interrupt if someone is talking too fast. i know very well that i have been in this house for 13 years, that the interpreters, if they can't do it anymore, i have a lamp here, you can look at it, it says slow down, turn on this lamp. i have certainly seen this in the committees. then the booth will tell you that it's stopping work. if one of the members complains, the whole company stands and the speaker is unable to speak at all. (interruption of the debate) mrs berès, i take the liberty, which you take in your committee, of explaining things when a point comes to the agenda. (interruption of the debate) it's the exact same thing!
i would like to point out again that i have now refrained from interrupting my colleagues just before the end of speaking time. but the moment he stopped talking, the booth said, "he's talking too fast now. sorry about that. i would ask the members to keep to a normal speaking speed.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to congratulate all three rapporteurs on their reports. i think that the discussions and negotiations on these three reports have also been a very good example of how we in parliament are coming to a common position on these important issues. i would like to focus on one point in particular. i have the impression that we are talking very intensely in these three reports about what the contribution of trade policy can be to the three policy areas that are addressed in the three reports. with mr désir, on the subject of enterprises, with mrs saïfi, on the subject of human rights and environmental standards, with mr jadot, on the subject of climate change - everywhere we have been very attentive to the contribution that trade policy can make to these policy areas. but i often wonder what the individual policy areas themselves are doing. so are we committing environmental politicians, are we committing social politicians, are we committing the other policy areas strongly enough to do their homework in their areas? so let me get this straight. i think we agree on the objective. but i sometimes worry that we are overburdening trade policy when it is increasingly the case that other policy areas are not doing their homework, that in the area of climate policy, for example, environmental politicians in copenhagen are failing to find a solution. if we fail to find a solution in copenhagen, then trade policy will be overburdened with the task of making up for all these shortcomings. i would be very grateful if we in this parliament could also give some serious thought in the coming weeks and months to what the contributions of the other policy areas can be to trade policy in this context. so i would like to see us saying 'trade and ...' in the future, and not just discussing 'everything else and trade'.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not without reason that we are discussing these three reports in a joint debate. and i would like to thank the three rapporteurs in particular for their excellent work. they all express the european parliament's wish to place eu trade policy in a broader context across the political groups. the time of harsh and one-sided foreign aid should be over. and that is why the debate today is taking place at a very timely and appropriate time, because we are having a debate here on the trade strategy presented by the commissioner, which should include many proposals and reflections and also concrete projects. climate change, environmental protection, protection of human dignity, the global eradication of poverty are recognized and acknowledged as a common task of humanity. and these tasks are above conventional commercial interests. modern trade policy, on the other hand, should and must internalize these tasks. increasing social prosperity in the sense of the human development index and the rule of law are in the best interests of the european economy and thus also enable the european economy to successfully network with other economies. the svu has recognised this in part, but it cannot be implemented without a national framework. let me make it clear that my group would have liked to go further on some of the points raised in the three reports. while we welcome the fact that companies are taking on their social responsibilities on their own initiative, every day thousands of people around the world are faced with the reality that their rights are at best on paper and ignored in everyday life. in particular, in subcontracting and in the production of raw materials, - as the films on child labour in chocolate production show - there are often scandalous conditions. the sustainable, uninterrupted supply of raw materials and energy, as you call it in your concept, commissioner, requires that we take up these aspects of the three reports.
i thank you very much, mr désir.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 25 november 2010, at 12 noon.
the following item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on anti-dumping cases situation and prospects of daniel caspary, cristiana muscardini, tokia saïfi, georgios papastamkos, kader arif, bernd lange, gianluca susta, metin kazak, niccolò rinaldi, marielle de sarnez, yannick jadot, carl schlyter, helmut scholz, robert sturdy, syed kamall, jan zahradil, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats), the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, the green group/european free alliance, the united group of the european left/nordic green left and the european conservatives and reformists (b7-0213/2010 oj c 56/02).
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. anti-dumping plays an important role in this world. and what we are concerned with here in the european parliament - and i think i can speak for the vast majority of members - is not protectionism, but the sensible use of the anti-dumping instrument. we must be able to defend ourselves when states distort competition through state subsidies. we must be able to resist when companies dump products on the market, that is, when they market products at a lower price than they produce them, in order to drive other competitors out of the market and thereby gain an illegitimate advantage. i would like to make a point in particular. i would like to ask the commission: has the commission had any experience and has there been any feedback from the european council on the extent to which foreign governments are involved in this process? are there any cases where governments in whose countries certain companies are based try to influence decisions in the anti-dumping committee? is there any feedback, is there any influence that has led to different voting results? i would be interested in that because concerned companies have approached me. the second point is, i've had a lot of times where companies have come to me and said, please contact the commission and prevent anti-dumping investigations in certain cases. if you impose an anti-dumping duty, it will have a negative impact on our company in another country, for example in asia. i wonder what the commission's impression is here. what's the status? are there any such cases?
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have already discussed in the previous debate the need to place trade policy in a wider context, namely that of the harmonization, protection and implementation of international law. the wto is a legal framework within which the european union and its member states operate, although my group has criticised its shortcomings from the outset in this context. the commission also has an obligation to protect european companies and their employees from unfair competition by means of the anti-dumping instruments approved by the wto. in concrete terms, it is about distribution below production costs. we ask you to broaden the definition of production costs and to enforce it multilaterally, because social dumping and environmental dumping - as my colleagues have already pointed out - also reduce production costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are facing a global downward spiral which we cannot and will not accept. in this context, we must continue to work on the definition of objective criteria for the use of the instruments, which are currently being called arbitrary both outside and within the european union. one reason for this is the lack of a functioning appellate body. within the eu, too, small and medium-sized enterprises sometimes complain that their interests are less taken into account when anti-dumping instruments are used than those of larger enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not affected by the financial crisis, and i would like to ask the commission to take this matter up in the specific case of ad 549, the european saint-gobain group. the commission's decision on this company may help this company, but in our view it puts many jobs in the manufacturing smes at risk. the commissioner's question to you is this: has this been sufficiently examined, were there sufficient possibilities of appeal, have you reached the possibilities of appeal and are smes sufficiently informed to be aware of what is going on?
member of the commission. − mr president, this will be a very short reply. i still have to answer the question put by mr scholz on the saint-gobain glass fibre case. anti-dumping duties can make supplies more expensive – including for smes. the commission is calculating this potential impact under the public interest test. smes can participate in the proceedings. we have an sme helpline to make cooperation easier. however, in this case, the impact is small because china has only 14% of the eu market. regarding the question put by mr zahradil on the use of the trade defence instrument as a protectionist tool and the risk of this happening, the only factor that influences the number of cases is the number of complaints received by the commission and the quality of the evidence provided. the commission’s trade defence policy is a rules-based system in line with wto rules. if a complaint is filed and there is sufficient substantiating evidence that dumping is taking place, then the commission has no other choice than to open an investigation.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr. - the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; we are having a joint debate here. i speak for the chairman of the committee on petitions, who is unfortunately ill, and i would like to confine myself to mrs paliadeli's report. we have often debated and discussed in this house the extent to which access to documents should be possible, the meaning of transparency, the benefits of transparency and also where the red line should be drawn between the legitimate interests of the public and the legitimate interests of individuals and companies. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. there is no right or wrong here, but there are deadlines, and deadlines must be respected in relation to the citizen and, of course, also in relation to the ombudsman. this is the small one-off of administrative action. and we expect the commission to take this tendency to accelerate, which the vice-president has just mentioned, and perhaps to turn it around and make some improvements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr diamandouros is a lucky man for the people and for this union, and i would like to thank him sincerely for this work. but at the same time, of course, it puts its finger on the wound of what needs to be improved. the porsche case just came up. i say this explicitly as a german: i am ashamed of such an act. a german commissioner, a german car company, correspondence between them, all other correspondence with italian, spanish and other car manufacturers will be published, but not this correspondence. there are reprimands from the ombudsman, once, twice, three times nothing happens. there's something that needs to be fixed. i would like to stress this very strongly. i would like to say something else: pilots, that is a profession that usually stands high off the ground, hovering in the air. i am not quite sure how the commission came up with the idea of calling its new project on the handling of citizens' complaints a pilot project, because what is happening is exactly the same. citizens complain for good reasons, first in their own country. nothing is happening there. then they turn to the commission. what is the commission doing? she sends the letter with a pilot on the trip back to where nothing happened, and nothing happens again. i do not think that this can be an adequate way of dealing with citizens' concerns and complaints, and i would like to take this opportunity, dear commissioner šefčovič, whom i greatly appreciate, to explain to us: they either end this project or they think about how to make it so that citizens' complaints end up where they are actually dealt with and citizens get justice and redress.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the institution of the ombudsman in europe now has a very impressive past. originating in sweden, ombudsmen have been trying for 200 years to resolve disputes and solve problems through an impartial approach. in other words, the ombudsman is born of a deeply human need to resolve disputes peacefully. the current activity report is the fifteenth overall report of the european ombudsman and the seventh of mr diamandouros. i think that is a proud record and i congratulate mr diamandouros on it. when he was elected last year, i wanted the ombudsman to work for more transparent and citizen-friendly decisions in the eu and for us to work well with the committee on petitions. it is fair to say that you and we have done very well. i see as a reserve a better coordination between the ombudsman's functions and duties and those of the committee on petitions. we are receiving more and more petitions which touch on aspects of both the traditional right of petition and the ombudsman. it's about human rights, property rights, the hindering of economic activity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to highlight the positive aspects of the new website, the interactive guide, which will make people aware of the opportunities they have in europe. i wish mr diamandouros every success in continuing his good work and improving it wherever possible. the committee on petitions will continue to work closely with the ombudsman in the interests of the citizens of the european union.
the commission has already done so. i can only echo what my colleagues have said and, above all, welcome the fact that the european commission is involving the industry, the member states and the european parliament in the early review of the arrangements for horizontal cooperation agreements, since the existing block exemption regulations expire at the end of the year. i believe that the may 2010 draft contains important changes, particularly in the area of information exchange and standards, as already mentioned. both lead to greater legal certainty and clear rules for businesses, and this is extremely important for compliance, and it was pointed out that this compliance must be the guiding principle that all businesses comply with in the european single market. competition and innovation are key elements of our economy and it is therefore important that the 2009 rules are adapted to today's conditions and that we have effective tools for businesses and public authorities to comply with and implement competition law. the parliamentary question was therefore adopted by a large majority in the committee, and i very much welcome that. i'd like to ask you a question about what you just said. the purchasing agreements of large international retail chains are covered by the horizontal cooperation agreement. in the communication of last year on the functioning of the food supply chain in europe you were still very critical of the power of demand, but today you are coming to a very positive assessment. you have just said that you welcome the merger of small retailers, provided that the purchasing arrangements are in order up to 20% market share. my question to you is: what are the reasons for your reassessment of this horizontal purchase agreement? what made you do it?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the drafting of the resolution, one fact has changed. at the time of its elaboration, ukraine had not yet been officially designated as the osce chair for 2013. now it's official, and that's why i'm proposing the following amendment: i read it in english: "calls on the ukrainian government to bring the legislation on media freedom into line with osce standards". this part remains unchanged. the next part should read: decisive action in this regard would strengthen ukraine's credibility as osce chairmanship-in-office for 2013.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. regarding the disaster in the 2011 budget negotiations, i would like to note the following: firstly, in any democratic legal system, budgetary law is the parliament's royal prerogative. secondly, a parliament which takes itself seriously must exercise this right. thirdly, i call on the european council to respect and accept this natural right of the european parliament. and fourthly, we must find a way of giving the european parliament a real say in the budget.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the media play a very special and important role in our democratic society. they guarantee high-quality information and thus make a major contribution to the functioning of our democracy. i firmly believe that a level and balance of public media landscape also positively affects the level of private media. both public and private media are mutually dependent and mutually beneficial. if we want a balanced and informative media landscape, we must support independent public service broadcasters as a counterpart to private broadcasters. this is an important prerequisite for freedom of the press, without which there can be no meaningful freedom of expression in our community.
in writing. − bees are very valuable animals, without which there would be no pollination of plants. this is why the increasing news about the declining numbers of bee colonies is very regrettable and should be critically questioned. this is all the more true for agriculture, which is more dependent on the useful work of bees. unfortunately, we must admit that the industrial age and modern life are making life increasingly difficult for useful bees. unfortunately, scenarios such as the mass extinction of bees by varroa mites, the unexplained colony flight in the usa and the threat to bees from electrosmog and from technically incorrectly treated seeds are not isolated cases. i am therefore very pleased that parliament has today voted to support the bee sector in the future. and what's important to me is that we also focus on the study of bee colonies. without accurate scientific knowledge, we will not be able to identify problems and effectively eliminate them. i hope that we will be able to explain and also prevent the decline of bee populations, so that we can continue to benefit from the important and multifaceted role of bees.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on the cop16 climate conference in cancún today because i feel committed to climate action, but also to realistic climate action, combining sustainability and economic development. i think that the commission should be able to take a decision on this matter. but the motion for a resolution is a 'green dream' with exaggerated and unrealistic aims. we have been able to resist some of the demands to limit the rise in average temperature to 1.5°c. if we had followed this call, we would have had to go to zero emissions in the next ten years, and we would have had to go to zero emissions sooner or later. we have not been able to win the case for a unilateral increase in the eu reduction commitment, although this is not helpful for the negotiations at the moment and there is no study on how this should be done in practice. we must not let such demands undermine the credibility of our partners in the world - especially those who are still reluctant to join us. credibility is probably our greatest asset right now. in seeking to ensure this, i remain convinced that europe must speak with one voice. that is why i support the council and the commission.
in writing. − with the collapse of the soviet union, the ukrainian people were given the opportunity for the first time in their history to shape their future in freedom and national independence. the great ukrainian people, who paid a huge price in blood during the stalin era and the second world war, with the loss of many millions of lives, deserve the solidarity and support of the european states and peoples. the people of ukraine have shown and proved their willingness to shape their future in democratic and rule of law conditions in the 'orange revolution'. this should be borne in mind by all those who have political, economic and social responsibilities in ukraine. the conduct of the recent regional elections and the events before and after the elections in ukraine raise doubts as to whether the actions of the political authorities in ukraine are in line with the principles of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. the european parliament, in its resolution, reaffirms its view that the ukrainian people can be assured of the solidarity of the european peoples, but that the political leaders in ukraine are called upon to take account of the will of the ukrainian people to shape their lives in democracy, freedom and the rule of law. i am one of the signatories to this joint motion for a resolution.
i have to say, madam president, it is a scandal that after 2,000 years of christian communities in iraq today, they are threatened with disappearing, after the intervention of the so-called west and under a democratic government that we support. we cannot accept that. this is a glaring scandal, beyond the general issues of religious freedom, and i am happy that in december a number of christian bishops from iraq will be coming to strasbourg to inform us fully about the situation of their religious communities. we must be clear that we are not only allowed to make a tired gesture every now and then, but that we are primarily responsible. 80% of europeans are christians. of course, we are for religious freedom in general, but who should care about these people if not us? people who even survived the cruel regime of saddam hussein in their homeland, but who are now up to their necks in water and who are now in existential danger. the european parliament must therefore make this a priority in its human rights work, and i appeal to lady ashton to do the same and to keep us regularly informed of the situation of christians.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. if we are to speak in the european parliament, we can use our mother tongues. the chinese government plans to strip tibetans of this fundamental right, threatening them with loss of identity. thousands of tibetans have peacefully protested in schools and universities against the supposed end of the bilingualism policy. on 27 october i received a petition from tibetan students outside the european parliament in brussels asking for solidarity. chinese ambassador song yesterday stressed that bilingual education in tibet is an important measure to support tibetan culture. i hear the words, but i lack the faith. he did not deny the numerous media reports about plans to make mandarin chinese the main language of instruction in the qinghai region. also, cantonese and shanghainese are to be replaced by mandarin throughout the education system and on the radio. and the government says that mandarin is spoken by only half of all chinese. article 4 of the constitution and article 10 of the law on regional autonomy emphasize the freedom of all ethnic groups to develop their own language in both written and spoken form. commissioner lewandowski, please work to ensure that this worrying development is put on the agenda of the eu-china dialogue. let experts gather experience on the ground where the bilingual system is in danger. the tibetan language can be supplemented by chinese at most, but never replaced.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not in favour of passing this resolution. my group allows me to speak against it, although most of my colleagues disagree. the chinese ambassador has been informed commented on the criticism. it may be that his letter does not answer all the questions, but why don't we seek dialogue first, but decide on a resolution first. let us take ourselves seriously, if we decide first, and then say - as the previous speaker said - that we want to send someone who has experience to find out how bilingualism is threatened. there is no plausibility in talking about the extinction of the tibetan language. this parliament has no power to decide how much hungarian is taught in schools in slovakia or romania, but it feels it should decide whether mathematics is taught in tibetan or in another language. i don't know if that's wise. and finally, i think it's a mistake to link the issue of language policy with the dalai lama, even though it doesn't have to be linked. i think we're helping the cause of not preventing anyone from using their own language by doing something like this.
(the speaker replied to a question on the 'blue card' procedure put by mr christian dan preda (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).) i am grateful to you for this question, because it gives me the opportunity to repeat what i have said. i did not say you should believe the chinese ambassador, i said it would be good for us to take ourselves seriously, to seek dialogue first and then to discuss a resolution. it doesn't make sense to say here, let's decide now, and then we want to send experts to china to find out if and where bilingualism is threatened. i believe that if you want to do something for the effectiveness of human rights, you must not only have good intentions, but you must also engage in a way that does not harm the cause.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we remember the images of aung san suu kyi, the burmese opposition leader, after her house arrest was lifted. they show a personality that is not broken by years of isolation and that leaves no doubt that they will continue to work for democratic change in their country. and all steps towards democratization and improvement of the extremely problematic human rights situation are welcome. but it will not be an easy road. the constitution that will now be in force after the unfree elections puts the president above the law and guarantees impunity for past human rights violations. the eu is strongly critical of this, as it is of the continued serious violations of human rights against ethnic minorities, who are often forced to leave their homelands and work in forced labour, and whose children are often recruited as child soldiers. we also need to step up our efforts to win over states that have a great deal of influence over the burmese government, such as china and india. we must encourage them to use this influence for the benefit of the burmese people. they should also implement the commitments they have made in the asean charter on human rights, which calls on member states to stand up and take action when there is systematic violation of human rights.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i am also pleased, on behalf of mrs andrikienė, to see our sakharov prize winner released. but there are still at least 2,200 other political prisoners in the terrible prisons of the burmese military dictatorship. the country as a whole, as we said earlier, is in a big prison. so we have to be very critical and very vigilant now. was this all just a cosmetic surgery or did the brutally manipulated elections reveal the true face of the regime? we must now use all the instruments at our disposal to press for change. this change can be seen as a test of faith, insisting that our sakharov prize winner actually be here in december, that she can receive her prize after 20 years, and that she also return safely to her home country. only then can we have a little hope that it will actually change something for a people who have suffered for decades under a corrupt socialist military dictatorship.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the epp group would also like to use today's debate to take a general look at the european union's visa policy. first of all, it is important to emphasize the importance of this visa policy for the european union. because we are a common europe, a common space for people, we can create a common visa policy. the visa policy is therefore also a sign of european unity - a very successful sign of european unity - and it is good to point this out, especially in times of crisis. secondly, we want clear rules of the game in the case of liberalisation. the technical standards to be observed at the external border, when issuing identity cards and passports, are clearly regulated. there must be no political discounting of compliance with these standards. we saw in the balkans in 2010 that the focus was initially on technical standards, but then increasingly political arguments were added. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. it is always difficult for us to weigh up individual cases, yes! but the focus must be on the technical standard, the criteria. i also support our commissioner in this, so that the standards we are calling for are actually implemented. this is an important task for the commission, because it is the only way to ensure that our visa policy is accepted by the citizens. thirdly, i would like to say that we welcome the fact that the last european council on justice and home affairs discussed the possibility of a rapid abolition of the visa requirement for individual countries, allowing for a rapid withdrawal of the visa exemption if the standards are not implemented. we have seen in the case of serbia that there has been a large influx of asylum seekers. i come to the last point. in the medium term - when we talk about ukraine, when we talk about russia - we as a group are very sceptical about opening the doors quickly, because we have just seen in the case of serbia that there will also be negative effects. that is why we should be very careful about visa policy.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 december. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 377/2004 establishing a network of immigration liaison officers (com (2009) 0322 c7-0055/2009 2009/0098 cod)) (a7-0342/2010).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i also would like to thank the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, for his great work. the immigration liaison officers should not only be seen as ‘facilitators of deportations’ – which i would actually not like them to be seen as – they should closely monitor the human rights situation in the host countries and especially the protection offered to asylum seekers and returnees. i am very happy that our rapporteur managed to include a reference to human rights and reporting on human rights several times in the report – an aspect that was missing completely from the original proposal. i also welcome the greater role that is given to the european parliament, being the only directly elected body at eu level and which has an even greater role now after the lisbon treaty – although not everybody seems to have realised that yet.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 december.
the next item is the report by véronique mathieu, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on a uniform application procedure for a combined permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state and on a common set of rights for third-country nationals residing legally in a member state (com (2007) 0638 c6-0470/2007 2007/0229 cod) (a7-0265/2010).
i have to say, madam president, i have been in parliament for a year now and i have dealt with various dossiers, but none of them has been as difficult as the one we have on the table now. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs mathieu and mr cercas, the two rapporteurs from the respective committees. it is very difficult indeed, and that is because we in europe have high ideals. we want to treat all people who live and work with us equally and fairly. this is something we all agree on in principle. it is always a question of what we can actually do with each of them. it has also been mentioned that we now want to have a common policy on asylum and migration with the lisbon treaty. asylum policy is something we are very concerned about, also because of the charter of fundamental rights. we also need a migration policy for economic reasons, because we are experiencing a demographic change and we urgently need not only highly qualified workers but also low-skilled workers. now the big problem is basically, what do we do? it has already been said sophie in 't veld has said it in 1990 in tampere the member states have already said: we want to develop something common. so far, nothing's on the table. i would like to say that we have something today which represents a compromise which we do not entirely like, but which i think is a way forward. i can personally understand why some people say that we need more time to discuss this. i don't like everything about it either. i am particularly concerned, for example, that all people should have access to training and further training, because this is a very crucial thing, not only for the people concerned to be able to work in the labour market, but also for us, who really need workers. in the case of social security, for example, where we already have so many different systems in the member states that are not even fully consistent in the eu, the question arises: how can we really create equal rights for third country nationals in all cases, even if we want to? that is why i think the compromise we have on the table at the moment is a good one. we should really agree with him, then at least we have something!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the rapporteur on good governance, and above all i thank her for the good cooperation and congratulate her on this excellent report. this report shows the commission what needs to happen in the near future, particularly in the area of the partnership principle. it explains how to ensure that local and regional levels are involved and how to involve the economic and social partners and civil society representatives at all stages of implementation and evaluation of the structural funds. this means a commitment by the member states to a genuine partnership. this means that the partners are empowered to speak to the administrations on an equal footing, through training and financial support, it means that the partners have a real influence on the design of the programmes. unfortunately, the commission has shown little commitment so far. this is as much a question of the current period as of what she has proposed. and i welcome mr olbrycht's statement that, when it comes to this development and investment agreement, it can only be done if there is a partnership and if the partners are involved on an equal footing in the development of these plans. otherwise we risk moving from a europe of regions to a europe of member states, and that is not our aim. our aim is regional development and involvement of local and regional level, wiso partners and civil society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i regret that once again an important debate on cohesion policy has been pushed almost to the end of the agenda. that does not do justice to this policy and its importance. i thank the rapporteurs for their reports, which emphasize the area in which the european union has really been successful, namely cohesion policy, and the need to continue this policy. and this is in a multi-level political system, as multi-level governance. cohesion policy projects are the signs in which european action becomes directly visible to citizens: in infrastructure projects, in social projects, in support of research, innovation, in maintaining competitiveness and employment in the regions. in the current debate on the future of the european union, we should, alongside the debates on currencies and finance, debate with equal intensity what the european union needs to ensure its internal cohesion, so that there is no drifting of countries and regions apart in economic, social and political terms. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy can make a major contribution to this. however, we need to do this by focusing cohesion policy more on the projects and policies that are moving europe forward as a whole, which give the strong the opportunity to remain strong, and the weak the opportunity to join the strong. i believe that this requires the maintenance and expansion of the objectives of cohesion policy as they currently exist. i also think that it is necessary to make more conditional and to direct the funding towards the key european projects, whether in the transport sector, the energy sector, regional and urban development, research and innovation. the way forward, as outlined by the commission in its fifth cohesion report, seems to me to be to integrate the funds into a common strategic framework, which then leads to a development and innovation partnership between the commission, the member states and regional representatives. this also means involving local and regional authorities as early as possible in this process. in this context, the new forms of regional cooperation can effectively support the process towards a genuine multi-level governance. mr president, allow me to make a final comment on mr colman, who has unfortunately left the chamber. i would like to point out again that the european union is a voluntary association of states. if states want to leave, they have the right to do so. but i think that is not what the people of scotland, wales and northern ireland and england really want.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i too would like to congratulate and thank the two rapporteurs for their successful work. in particular, the guidance given by petru luhan on the 'future architecture of cohesion policy from 2014' is very welcome. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very important one. i therefore share the rapporteur's view that cohesion policy should be aligned with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. however, the regions must continue to be able to set their own priorities. not all regions are the same, and not all regions within a member state are the same. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of regional authorities. and the regions need air to invest, in infrastructure and in minds, with their own priorities. in this case, particular features such as demographic trends may not be sufficiently taken into account. the commission is always talking about a regional policy adapted to the needs of the regions, and then there would be little left. i therefore believe that we as a parliament must make it clear from the outset that the regions must not be weakened in relation to the member states. the so-called partnership principle must be further strengthened. the importance of the regions in the eu varies greatly according to the structure of the state. for this reason, the principle of subsidiarity must be given special importance. this must be taken into account in the commission's idea of establishing innovation and development partnerships between the commission and member states in the future. without going into too much detail, let me briefly touch on the significance of objective 3: i am in favour of the report, but i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. the target must be more specific in the future. i feel that objective 3 is not given enough weight in the current debate on the future of cohesion policy. in particular, there is still much room for expansion in cooperation between the regions on the former eu external borders - i am referring to my home state of saxony.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make four comments on the reports before us. firstly, the european union makes sense to people only if it seeks to reduce economic, social and territorial imbalances. secondly, european cohesion policy is the key fiscal instrument for achieving this objective. thirdly, if you are critical of this, you should honestly put forward an alternative. if he has no alternative, he should keep quiet. fourthly, it is precisely in my own country - i come from the east of germany - that this policy has brought economic development forward. we're on our way, but we're not there yet. that is why we need further support beyond 2013 to keep us on track.
i have to say, madam president, the european protection order is a step in the right direction. the principle must be that recognised victims of violence receive the same protection in all member states. the best solution would be to harmonize the laws of the member states on this matter, but they have not been able to do so. the positive thing about the protection order is that every victim of violence should benefit from this protection order as much as possible and there is a wide scope: sexual violence, stalking, and especially minors, which i consider very, very important. so it's good news for the victims of violence, and especially for women. there is, however, a trickle: the grounds for non-recognition in article 9 are very broad and can also in part constitute an exit system for the member states. we must therefore evaluate thoroughly after one year how the debate can be continued, because all victims in all countries need the same protection.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs in particular. they have done a tremendous job, and it has really come out a significant improvement. it can be said that the draft directive is of great importance to the hundreds of thousands of victims of human trafficking and is intended to put an end to their injustice. this is the case, for example, with the european union's newly created european monetary system. there is a wide scope of application of the law to human trafficking. we think that is right, even though we have a problem with the problem of begging - i say this openly - and also with illegal immigration in some respects. it is true that the gender dimension is present throughout this directive and what is most important to me the welfare of the child in the case of unaccompanied minors. i 'll say it from a german point of view: we have to catch up and i am very glad that this aspect of the children is playing a major role in this draft directive. it is also worth noting that pregnant women, people with illnesses and disabilities must also be given special consideration in dealing with this problem. prevention measures such as training of officials, the establishment of coordinators in the member states - these are major steps forward. i can only congratulate us if we agree to this today. i also hope that the member states will take the matter more seriously, because they must now report. maybe that's part of it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the two rapporteurs, as the shadow rapporteur for alde. thank you for your cooperation. i think we did a good job today. we can decide today on something that can really put a stop to human trafficking. the challenge will be to bring this directive to life in the member states. it is very important that the law enforcement agencies such as the police and the courts are sensitized to actually identify and prosecute this crime. this is an essential point, and it is also very important to raise public awareness - as mrs matera has just mentioned - so that the public is aware that human trafficking occurs within the eu. and it's not happening anywhere, but it's happening right on my doorstep. another important point with which we liberals in germany had a problem - but which has now been solved by the member states having the competence - is the criminality of people who use such a service. because if a person is guilty, he can refuse to testify in a subsequent trial. if you use this right of non-testimony - for example, as a man who was with a prostitute who was threatened by human trafficking - then information is lost that could be further used to eventually expose this network of traffickers. it is therefore good that this is being done in the member states, and i thank you very much for your cooperation.
the commission has already done so. with this directive we are taking a major step towards an effective fight against trafficking in human beings. the rapporteur has achieved a good result in terms of minimum maximum penalties, jurisdiction, non-punishment, probation - not all of this is what we had in mind, but it is a very practical solution. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be consulted on the interpretation of the convention. we have to be more restrained. i am also convinced that we would have done ourselves a disservice in terms of the question of the possibility of parole, because otherwise we would not have pursued this. but i would like to return to criminal law and criminal procedure in the member states in general. this is a very sensitive area of national legislation that has developed over centuries. that's why we should be careful with it. i say this in view of the forthcoming european investigation order. but today we have created a good basis for crossborder cooperation in criminal matters. i am glad that this step has been taken!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that we have discussed in parliament today not only the agreement between the european union and georgia on visa facilitation but also the agreement between the european union and georgia on the return of persons staying illegally. it is part of that that one is concerned not only with the beautiful things in life but also with the critical issues, and i now hope that perhaps in about a year we as parliament will have an interim report on how this agreement between the european union and georgia has been implemented, and above all how it has worked. i would also like to see the european parliament more closely involved in the initial consultations next time.
in writing. − today's decision will provide around €8 million in support from the european globalisation adjustment fund to the employees of heidelberger druckmaschinen ag in baden-württemberg who are threatened with redundancy. the aim is to use these funds to help people find a new job as quickly as possible. it is important to me that these funds reach the people in good time and without major bureaucratic friction. the help is needed now, not in six months or a year. the european union and the member states must also do more than deal with the negative consequences of globalisation. globalization is a process that can and must be shaped.
in writing. - my abstention from this vote is not only due to the fdp's scepticism towards the european globalisation fund, but also based on a possible conflict of interest as a shareholder of heidelberger druckmaschinen ag.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european council meets on thursday and friday. i want to ask you this: firstly, do you think that the introduction of euro bonds, so-called eurobonds, can help to stabilise the euro? secondly, do you share the view of chancellor angela merkel that eurobonds are not necessary? thirdly, what do you intend to do in the council next thursday if you disagree with mrs merkel, that is to say, if you are in favour of eurobonds? fourthly, are you in contact with the president of the eurogroup, mr juncker, prime minister and minister for finance, and will you support him as president of the commission? fifthly, if the eurobonds are not adopted, will you immediately afterwards tell parliament how the commission intends to react to any failure to act?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not you have responded with your own diplomacy, mr barroso, but i will not let you get away with it. so i 'm going to ask you very specifically: the european council has also adopted a resolution on the future of the euro, which calls for the introduction of a single currency, the euro, and the introduction of a single currency. will you support him in this? and could it be that you will try to convince mrs merkel and mr sarkozy to join the majority of the euro states, or will you, when mrs merkel and mr sarkozy say 'we don't want that', say 'okay, because two say no, we give up the idea'? other
president of the commission. − thank you for your comments, mr kamiński. the commission is indeed following the issue of nord stream very closely. we are aware of the sensitivity of the issue with regard to the environment and from other points of view, so we will be following it with great care.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not mr barroso, you have answered mr schulz's questions by saying that the euro bonds are not going to work. we were told before that the financial transaction tax was going to be a no-go, other things were going to be a no-go. we are in the third year after the financial crisis. and now i ask whether you would agree to increase the euro rescue umbrella - that would be another measure - or whether we can expect to see a lot of proposals from you and others rejected again this weekend. my question is, how much is this hesitation, especially since it costs a lot of money?
president of the commission. − one thing we have to tell the european heads of state and government is the following: this week, when we meet – because the commission president is also present as a member of the european council – we will not just be addressing one another or addressing politics or the economy, we will be addressing the markets. these are extremely sensitive issues, where i believe we have to show some kind of restraint in the comments made. because i have a duty to be transparent with all of you, i have already responded very honestly to the question put by mr schulz. we have seen some interesting eurobond proposals. i think we should not kill the proposal, but it is obvious that there is no consensus at this stage. i will not insist on what, for me, is obviously a divisive issue at this stage. we have instruments now that were the object of a consensus, which we can work on to try and find a coherent, robust action to protect the euro area and the european union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not mr barroso, just a quick question: are there any other instruments still under discussion? i feel a little ill-informed here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. as rapporteur for the budget of this parliament, i can clearly say that this part of the budget is a political success. the council has adopted parliament's position almost 100% following the vote on the budget in october. my approach has been to approach this budget with great responsibility, with the ambition of the lisbon treaty, but also with self-restraint on our part, because we all understood the difficult situation we are in, but we are nevertheless convinced europeans. this is precisely the conflict of objectives that has been at stake both in the parliament's budget and in the general part of the budget. the various institutions, our own house, but also the other small institutions, such as the data protection commissioner, the ombudsman, the court of auditors, have been given posts that they urgently need, not as many as they originally requested, but in recognition of what they really need. the budget of parliament - and this is important to me - has been cut by 25 million compared with what the bureau had originally requested. so there's also a clear sign of self-limitation, of self-limitation, but not of self-denial. and it was also very important to me that we put more resources into getting energy efficiency in our buildings. the commission has also proposed that there should be more bicycles here in strasbourg so that we do not have to rely on so many cars, and that the public transport card in brussels should be made available to the staff of the institutions. so this is also about environmental responsibility. the adjustment of salaries following the court's judgment has been properly budgeted and the other parts are financed by redistribution from the budget. that means that we have reached a good compromise between parliament and the council and there has been good cooperation. but let me now give my political assessment of the general budget as the green budget coordinator. the increase in payments 2.91% is a very moderate increase and it is a transitional budget in times of the necessary austerity policies in the member states. but parliament - and i still think that this is a legitimate concern - wanted a clear agreement with the council, such as the lisbon treaty, which we have now decided together, the council and parliament - we are not opposed to this - to be implemented. i would like to stress once again that parliament does not go beyond the treaty of lisbon. we only ask for the contract to be honored. we also ask that the council not back down from the results of the lisbon treaty. but i think that is a threat and a self-confident parliament must criticise it. we greens are not satisfied with what we have achieved. there are some soft explanations, but that's not what we originally wanted. i believe that if you are going to adopt an ambitious strategy for which there are really good reasons, you must also stand up and not kneel down before you do. from a green point of view, it is good that there is no money for the iter fusion reactor now, because we do not think that this is the right priority at this time and from an ecological point of view we think that more money should be spent on renewable energy and ecological conversion, but not on such a project whose success is not guaranteed. but what we can now say for next year is that the negotiations will continue. i very much hope that we will then be more successful together in the pro-european sense between the council and parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i shall take up what mr surján said. we are dealing with a new procedure in which the two arms of the budgetary authority, the council and parliament, act on an equal footing. i would like to address all those colleagues from the committee on budgets who have complained that there has been a politicization of this debate. i would like to say that the logic of the new procedure is that we must go beyond a budgetary technique and talk about a real budgetary policy. the budgetary policy has shown that the other authority, the european council, is willing to have a different european union through budgetary policy. i shall therefore begin with the presidency, with you, mr wathelet. i think this parliament owes a debt of gratitude to the belgian presidency because i believe that the belgian presidency has helped to achieve something that i did not think possible three weeks ago. the united kingdom government and the netherlands government - which must also be mentioned by name - were not prepared in the council to compromise on parliament's participation in the financial perspective. the compromise we wanted with the council has been rejected. they tried to reach a compromise until the last second, but these two governments said: 'no! a very clever solution - perhaps a belgian solution - has been found, namely to get the governments which will be holding the presidency for the next two years - hungary, poland, denmark and cyprus - to make a statement that they are involving parliament in the process of shaping the will. i am assuming that we will continue as before, i.e. on the basis of the existing interinstitutional agreement. in this way, four governments in the european council have publicly stated that they disagree with the governments of the netherlands and the united kingdom. this is a great success because it has become clear that the council is not a homogeneous body that can dictate a unified will, but there are very different views within the council, for example from countries such as hungary or poland, which fear that if the foreign service is financed, if iter is financed, if galileo is financed with the same budgetary resources as we have today, but with frozen agricultural expenditure, cuts will have to be made somewhere by 2013. and the cuts would then be made in cohesion policy. we have allies in the council, namely the states which do not want these cuts, and these are in particular the next two presidencies, poland and hungary. in this form parliament has achieved great success. i do not share mrs trüpel's view that we are in a state of collapse. quite the opposite! the other key policy requirement we have set, flexibility, has not been agreed. that's off the table. mr president-in-office, you say that unanimity is now on the table, that you could have had the qualified majority. i would say, on the contrary, that those who want iter must also ensure that there is unanimity in the council for cooperation on flexibility, otherwise you will not get iter. we negotiated hard, we negotiated very controversially. it was never about the numbers in the end, but about the political will. finally, the third point: the commission has positioned itself in a difficult conflict between the council and parliament. there is not a single government in the council, not one willing to discuss own resources. we want to discuss equity. the commission has taken a position. the commission has taken parliament's side on this issue. the community institutions agree. i expect the president of the commission and you, mr lewandowski, to come forward with a proposal on the own resources arrangements in the eu in the spring. the member states, the 27 governments, will then have to act. i am a little surprised that i am the only group leader who has spoken here today. i want to say the same to my colleagues at the address. there was a sometimes hard fight between the budget experts and us. i think it's turned out to be a good thing. i would like to thank the rapporteurs on the budget, mrs jędrzejewska and mrs trüpel. i have learned from the increased involvement of the budget at political level how difficult the business is. i want to give you a big compliment for your work. i would like to conclude by apologizing to all those colleagues who have felt provoked by me at times. i must tell you, i thought this provocation was necessary.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i like that i have the last word in this debate today. i'll start by saying that i'm happy to accept mr. schulz's apology. he said he'd been a little off-track. it's always good when he realizes that sometimes he's too much of a pussy. i would like to emphasize that i am not in favour of the idea that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area. i have been on the committee on budgets for six years now and before that it was always about budgetary policy and not just budgetary technique. mr schulz said he had learned a lot in the last few weeks. i'm glad he's here. he'll probably understand that now. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want to make this clear again: if the aim is to talk about new european own resources, as is already stated in the lisbon treaty, then this would not only be an additional tax on european citizens, but would also mean that payments from gross domestic product payments would be reduced in the same way. so not only would the burden on citizens be increased, but there would be a more transparent system for own resources. we need to debate this. i reject the notion that there will always be additional burdens. the aim is to find a smarter financing system. the council and parliament should be prepared to do so. secondly, because this has just been interpreted as the european union always taking things away from the european taxpayer: there are the educational programmes for european citizens, there is new infrastructure, there are new languages, there is help for dairy farmers. that means that what we are doing here is in the best interests of the european citizens, and that must be said out loud. and what is the european union's global role in the coming years? we have such successful countries as china, india, brazil and others that we compete with on a global scale. if we want to be strong as the european union with new products, which hopefully are also sustainable, with new production methods which are ecologically responsible, with energy production which is really based on renewable sources of energy, which was now set as a goal once again in cancún, then we also need the appropriate means and for that we need the european budget which reflects our common interests. i hope that we'll move there in the next few years.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we will have a new supervisory structure in europe in a few weeks' time, largely shaped by the european parliament. among these three new supervisory authorities, there will be one responsible for markets and securities: esma. esma will have the final say in the registration and supervision of credit rating agencies and will be responsible for ensuring that credit rating agencies effectively comply with the new framework. esma may, if it so wishes, delegate this cross-border responsibility to national supervisory authorities, where these are small and national only. the present proposal is therefore nothing more than an adaptation of the april 2009 regulation to the new circumstances, but it strengthens the role of esma. it gives the new supervisor more power and authority and - which is new - it also gives esma the power to impose sanctions. i welcome this very much because i believe that this strengthening of the position of a new european-style supervisory authority will actually strengthen credibility in the market. i have only one criticism. we made a policy decision at the time, in the april 2009 regulation, on how to deal with third country credit ratings in europe. and we said at the time: they can be used in europe if they either comply with the equivalence procedure or if they are backed by a credit rating agency registered and approved in europe, the so-called endorsement procedure. now the commission has changed this at level 2 and says: endorsement is no longer an option, de facto only the equivalence procedure applies. as the commissioner has also pointed out, there are still many open points as regards the rating agencies, namely lack of competition, lack of transparency, the business model, whether the issuer or the investor pays, which needs to be critically examined. there are questions about the payment system and also about over-reliance, because in reality, the rating agencies have become de facto regulatory certification authorities through regulatory regulations. i shall take up this in my own-initiative report and i look forward to the commission's legislative proposal next year.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, minister, mr gauzès and colleagues and shadow rapporteurs! i am glad that we have taken this step now, that for the first time a sector of the european financial system is being placed under direct european supervision. it is also a step towards a strong europe in a single market, towards strong control of a sector which has contributed to the crisis. i would like to make one further remark: mr barnier, the selection procedures for the new authorities are currently under way and the new authorities are only as good as the staff. i can only hope that the selection of staff will really be about expertise, about independence from the financial industry they are supposed to control, about clear service to the public interest and that we will not again see national quotas in the selection process that override these important criteria. in addition, there is still much to be done in the field of rating agencies. we still do not have proper transparency of the information that the rating agencies work with, we have far too much use of regulatory ratings in the financial industry and in the regulations on the financial industry. we have serious conflicts of interest, we clearly have the market power of three major vendors, and we have no liability for negligently created ratings. commissioner, it is good that the consultation is now under way, we are anxious to see the results. it is civil society that should be involved in this consultation, but then it must also be about making a bold proposal. i look forward to hearing your proposal. be as brave as you are now and let us work together to pass legislation next year that will truly solve the problems that still exist in the credit rating market in a european way. we owe it to the citizens.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the damage that rating agencies can do has been shown in the last few months since the beginning of this year. so there is an urgent need for action. i also welcome the directive, and in particular the fact that esma will be entrusted with the supervision and registration of credit rating agencies. this is an important and good step forward. however, many good and further proposals were not adopted during the negotiations on the report. i would like to make one more point. the mandate of esma therefore remains the only real and positive innovation. the proposals for a public credit rating database have been dropped; there is also no mention of the establishment of a public rating agency. the systematic and continuous review of credit ratings by the supervisory authorities has also been undermined. the commission also proposed the promotion of unsolicited credit ratings to overcome the disastrous problem of issuers' orders for the valuation of financial market products; there's nothing left of that either. i hope that these aspects will be taken into account in the forthcoming reports on this subject, which jean-paul gauzès and you, mr barnier, have mentioned.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we thank the commission and the council, mrs hedegaard and mrs schauvliege, for the daily briefings given to the ep delegation in cancún. in fact, it can be said that the eu was not part of the problem in cancún, but in many cases part of the solution. we should all be happy about that. the positive mood must now be used to give new impetus to climate policy in europe and also in the european union. i would like to make just three points: it was very right that parliament in its resolution called for us to increase our ambition and achieve a 30% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020, and i hope that the commission and the council will take decisions on this in the spring. second, we have the green climate fund. we have proposed the introduction of a financial transaction tax to finance it. those who have rejected this must now come up with alternatives, and there is no point in talking about it. third, we have to do our homework. the hot air must be removed from the eu's climate balance. my last sentence: after the climate conference is before the climate conference. the work must now be intensified.
vice-president of the commission. − i can only repeat that the cost of an improper functioning of justice, or the cost of not treating human beings as human beings should be treated in a europe of rights, is much higher than the cost of investing in those basic rights. of course it is much more difficult for countries which are very much below the minimum threshold to reach that threshold, and it will be much easier for countries which already have a certain level of rights to do so. is that a reason for not acting? on the contrary. we have been analysing the possible costs for the different member states on the basis also of the pressure under which they are operating. it is not a question of asylum alone. it is also a question of criminal proceedings, for example in the case of an illegal immigrant charged with a criminal offence being brought before a court. we have not made it compulsory to have all the documents translated, only those which are essential to enable the person being prosecuted to understand what is happening to him or to her. by the way, the great majority of people affected will not be illegal immigrants. the largest groups affected are people travelling to another member state, such as tourists for instance, or people who live in another member state but who do not speak the language of that country. so this will provide a basic benefit for millions of european citizens. imagine that you are travelling from strasbourg to a neighbouring country. you are involved in a traffic accident. you have injured someone. you are taken to the police, you are taken to court and you have no idea what you are being accused of. in those circumstances, you would be very glad at least to know what you were charged with so that you could try to defend yourself. i think that is a basic human right and we should consider the cost to society of not putting this basic human right put into practice.
member of the commission. − the helsinki european council of december 1999 granted turkey the status of candidate country and accession negotiations with turkey were opened in october 2005. the commission has reported regularly to the council and parliament on turkish progress towards meeting the copenhagen criteria. on 9 november, the commission published the 2010 progress report on turkey. the report covers the period from early october 2009 to october 2010 and progress is measured on the basis of decisions taken, legislation adopted and measures implemented. turkey has pursued its political reform process, in particular through the reform of its constitution, and continues to sufficiently fulfil the political criteria. the constitutional amendments adopted by referendum on 12 september created the conditions for progress in a number of areas such as the judiciary, fundamental rights and public administration. the implementation of the constitutional changes in a transparent and inclusive way is essential for turkish progress. the democratic opening aimed notably at addressing the kurdish issue has not yet met expectations. the decision of the constitutional court to close down the democratic society party and a surge in pkk terrorist attacks also undermined this policy. significant reforms are still required on fundamental rights, in particular in the area of freedom of expression. the high number of legal suits against journalists and undue pressure on the media undermine freedom of the press in practice. with regard to regional issues and international obligations, it is now urgent that turkey fulfils its obligation of full non-discriminatory implementation of additional protocols to the association agreement. the commission has recommended that, if there is no progress on this issue, the measures adopted by the european union in 2006 should be upheld. this will affect the overall progress of the negotiations. turkey has continued to express public support for the negotiations under the auspices of the united nations between the leaders of the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot communities to reach a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem. however, there has been no progress towards normalisation of bilateral relations with the republic of cyprus. as regards the economic criteria for accession to the european union, turkey continues to be a functioning market economy that can cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the union. turkey has witnessed strong economic growth in 2010, recouping the losses incurred during the financial crisis, but the process of privatisation and structural reform needs to continue. turkey continued improving its ability to take on the obligations of membership by aligning its laws and regulations with those of the european union. two negotiating chapters were opened during this reporting period – environment and food safety – adding to a total of 13 chapters that are currently open. important progress has been made on energy security with the ratification of the intergovernmental agreement on nabucco, and on cooperation in the aviation sector with initialisation of the eu-turkey horizontal aviation agreement. much alignment remains to be done particularly on fisheries, social policies, justice and home affairs, and the customs union where longstanding trade issues remain unresolved. it remains crucial that turkey improves its administrative capacity to implement and enforce eu-related legislation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry about that. we had a group meeting. at 8 o'clock, the question time with mrs reding began. i saw it on the screen and then i came here as soon as their second question came, because she had six. i thought this was gonna take half an hour, like we planned. that's why i almost missed my question. i would ask you to call them back after mr higgins' question. i actually came into the room the second it was my turn.
member of the commission. − regarding the first question, i definitely belong to those who are not satisfied with the pace of our accession negotiations. i do not think it reflects the importance of the country, and the commitment on both sides, to open just one chapter per presidency, bearing in mind that we were unable to open a new chapter during this presidency even though there has been a lot of progress, in particular on chapter 8 dealing with competition. there are a number of reasons for this. unresolved issues concerning cyprus still being divided is one of them. the number of chapters available for us to open through the framework of the accession negotiations is indeed limited. we have only three chapters to open in the time remaining – on competition, procurement and social policy – and these are not easy chapters. eight of them are being frozen, based on commission recommendations, as a reaction to turkey’s non-implementation of the additional protocol, but there are other chapters which are being blocked by individual member states. in these circumstances, it is difficult for the commission to provide any reasonable timetable. i can say that today in brussels, in the framework of the general first council at ministerial level, we had a good discussion on the eu-turkey relationship and the accession negotiations in terms of agreeing on the text of declarations. i am also pursuing a number of routes for intensifying this process. i am confident that after the forthcoming parliamentary elections in turkey both sides will indeed be ready to do exactly that. on freedom of the press, this is an issue of concern and one that the commission is following very closely. the goal of this exercise is to go through all the 35 chapters, through all the opening and closing benchmarks, to make sure that turkey not only aligns itself with the european union acquis but also provides a track record of the implementation of that acquis. this very much concerns the political part of the copenhagen criteria, which specifically relates to freedom of the media and the freedom of expression. together with the member states and with the support of the european parliament, we are very keen that the enlargement process is not just an exercise in ticking boxes, which might later cause problems with the implementation of some of the legislation or with the working of the institutions. it is a serious process where the track record is playing a more and more important role. this is exactly the process turkey needs to go through before the question of whether it will succeed in becoming a member of the european union is put on the table. that would be the best assurance that all freedoms, including the one mentioned by the honourable member, are guaranteed.
member of the commission. − i will provide succinct answers to both questions. the main objective of the cross-border cooperation programmes is to support the development of a common socio-economic environment for people, communities and economies, including the delivery of technical assistance. this should prepare countries to manage future cross-border programmes under the european territorial cooperation objectives of the european union structural funds. cross-border cooperation programmes between the western balkan countries also aim at overcoming the legacy of the past conflicts. cross-border programmes under the instrument for pre-accession assistance within the western balkans started in 2007. the results have so far been very positive. in the framework of their cross-border programmes, both croatia and serbia showed readiness to cooperate in the areas lying on either side of the danube river. the annual allocation for the croatia-serbia cross-border programme amounts to eur 1.8 million. this allocation of funds is used for providing grants to small joint projects proposed by local stakeholders in a variety of sectors such as the economy, culture, tourism, environment and social issues. project beneficiaries include municipalities, ngos, chambers of commerce or cultural institutions. large cross-border infrastructure projects, such as the project referred to in the question, are neither within the scope nor the objectives of the cross-border cooperation component of the instrument for pre-accession assistance. the commission might consider funding such projects under component one for serbia – which is institution building – and component three for croatia – which falls under regional development – if the respective authorities in croatia and serbia so request. as for the second question, if i may continue. as mentioned in the written reply to a previous question by the honourable member numbered e-6800/2010, the european commission is aware of the deplorable incident in himara and is closely following developments. the alleged perpetrator has turned himself in to the police and is awaiting trial. the albanian authorities bear the full responsibility for the efficient investigation of the facts and the equitable trial of those responsible. the commission will be monitoring the processing of this case in conformity with the principles of human rights and the rule of law. in this question, the honourable member also provides details of other incidents. albania and greece are closely linked by history. it is very much in the interests of both countries that they continue their cooperation and overcome any nationalist and extremist ideas which have been at the root of much misfortune suffered by the whole region in the past. the commission has repeatedly stressed the need for a strict enforcement of the rule of law and for full respect of human rights, notably the protection of the rights of persons belonging to minorities. all applicant countries are aware of the importance of fulfilling these criteria for progress towards the european union. in its recent opinion the commission commented positively on inter-ethnic relations in albania. however, efforts are still needed to enforce respect for and protection of minorities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for your generosity. i'll be with you in a moment, commissioner. would you be willing to look at the connection between sombor in serbia and ossiek in croatia? there is a large bridge over the danube, an airport in croatia, but no adequate road. and that would be really, really important for the whole region.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the committees on the environment, public health and food safety, industry, research and energy and regional development for their intensive consultation and for their report today. this applies mainly to mr bendtsen, but also to other members who have been working on this subject for a long time and with a high level of competence. if we balance the three 20% targets we have set for ourselves - co2, renewable energy in the energy mix and more energy efficiency - we are on track with co2, we are on track with renewable energy, and we are at the beginning of efficiency. if we do not act, we will miss the target. that is to say, we have a target - parliament, the council, all the european institutions - but the trend, especially after the crisis, is not towards 20% more energy efficiency, but a maximum of 8, 9, 10% would be achievable in ten years, as things stand today. secondly, i am not entirely happy with the term energy efficiency, because nobody understands it but us. if you ask your neighbors, your friends, energy conservation is common knowledge, energy efficiency is something academic. in fact, in this objective the question of what needs to be achieved is not yet definitively defined. we have a total energy balance for 2005, supplemented by 2007 because of the inclusion of romania and bulgaria, which is the base year. the volume of consumption there is known. then - and this was before my time - all the decisions speak of a normal perspective, that is, of an upward trend in energy demand, and of this again minus 20%. i ask myself, do we have an increasing demand for energy without energy efficiency at all? in my country, germany, it's not. but in new member states, the keyword is automobiles, car density, housing size, industrial development. however, no objectively valid prospective report has yet been produced. 20% of how much is unknown. there are primes and other models. i question some of the numbers. for example, some of the founding members of the european union are reporting a significant increase in energy demand by 2020 without efficiency. minus 20% is exactly the same as in 2005. i don't think that's what this is. that means we need numbers, perspectives, forecasts with authority. we want to have them by february, march. and then i bet that the heads of state and government in february will take the issue just as seriously as they did before the crisis. i think that the member states will not vote for binding targets as things stand today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we need to clarify what the 2020 forecast is without efficiency, a more theoretical view, and then minus 20 percent. then the question is, where do we start? first of all, in the area of existing buildings. the most important areas of activity are housing, employment, industry and existing buildings. i see a role model of public ownership between municipalities and states. this means that wherever the public owns property, efficiency must be the first priority. secondly, we have structural programmes at european level, and we have different programmes for restructuring in the different countries. we have to connect them. we may have to finance less paving for marketplaces and less bypass roads, but we have to co-finance more energy efficiency. i believe that this is a crucial requirement for the next budgetary period at european level. the transport sector is not a problem at all, since we know that there are member states with 550 cars per 1 000 inhabitants - with motor cars, diesel engines - and others with 100 and 120 cars. there will be harmonization, but not in germany in the sense of 100 pse per 1 000 inhabitants, but in europe in the sense of 400 to 500 pse per 1 000 inhabitants. that's why we need more energy efficiency in transport. by the way, the transport that is avoided is the most efficient. thirdly, industry, and fourthly, the energy sector. you have made a great deal of progress on the question of commitment. we asked this question at the informal lunch at the energy council a few weeks ago. i can tell you that the member states and the energy ministers are very much involved in energy efficiency, but they are not yet ready to adopt binding targets. i would like to ask you, by the way, if you could think of an emerging member state, poland: minus 20%? or a saturated member country, germany, austria, italy: how can we get austria or germany to accept a 30% cut, for example, so that poland can take its growth trend and more cars per citizen and other things into account in the objectives? we have to face enormous discussions about concretisation in the sectors of industry, energy, transport, housing and in the member states. i want to record the report now and thank you for the contents. i shall be addressing the european council on 4 february to see once again how serious the governments are about this and then i shall come back to you with a concrete proposal for a new energy efficiency plan. i am sure that in the spring and summer we will have ample opportunity to discuss everything, including the question of commitment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. stage one is voluntary. we expect national annual energy efficiency action plans, we say what we expect year by year in the achievement of the target, but we do not wait until 2020 but we switch to binding if necessary after two years, when we notice that in the first two years the voluntary phase does not bring progress towards 20% in the member states. thank you for today.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, a correction: the german translation said that i was the chairman of the environment committee, which is not true. i'm the reporter. but in this capacity i would like to thank mr bendtsen very much for his very good work and also for the good cooperation. it has presented an ambitious strategy on energy efficiency in the european union. energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to reduce emissions and reduce our dependence on energy imports. we are creating jobs in europe and the money we are investing is no longer going to russia, the middle east or other regions, but stays in our economy. the committee on the environment adopted a comprehensive opinion. i do not have to repeat here everything that is very ambitious. it's not all that important. but i would like to emphasize two points again: firstly, we have talked about this, commissioner, and we are encouraging the european union to set itself a long-term target for energy efficiency. because if we're planning for 2050, we also need to know how much we're going to be using approximately. secondly, on the definition: we have pointed out the difficulties. i think we should be guided by the amount of energy we use, which is measurable, we have data on that. we have no data on anything else, measurements per unit, etc. i think that is why this is the right approach and i hope that we can incorporate this into the strategy in the coming months.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank those who have worked on this report, in particular mr bendtsen. i would like to point out two points and perhaps make a little reflection. we agree that energy efficiency, using energy sparingly, is the solution, the simplest and most sensible. the question is, how do we achieve that goal? i would like to ask the question: what has it really brought about that we have approached the people in parliament again and again with new and higher percentages? have we really achieved more and moved more? or why and where has energy been used more efficiently? i'm learning that industries that use a lot of energy are more energy-efficient because it saves money and because it's convenient for them. i'm learning that if people know that this device is going to use more energy or less energy, so if they see that and can see an advantage for themselves, they'll choose to use it. perhaps the method is not to work with percentages, but to move forward with incentives. secondly, the commissioner has just made it very clear and very strongly clear how complicated the very definition of the term energy efficiency is. what is it? how different is this in the member states? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is that the right answer, working with a binding number, or do we not have to think of it anymore? i think we need to break away from the debate of the past in energy policy, which believes that we can achieve something with simple figures, with binding targets and with miracle solutions. because obviously we haven't done enough. perhaps we can try the other way of differentiated, of different responses, which takes the different sensitivities of the situation, but then also produces an effect. it's about the effects, not about our feelings. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am also in favour of differentiated solutions and, like you, i am thinking about how to achieve this. you can't rule out any part of the job that needs doing. i'm starting today. today i think it is wrong to buy a little freedom with binding targets and percentages. i would invite us to think more about how we can achieve something, step by step. i'm sorry we didn't get more than that. so maybe we can go another way.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. energy efficiency has always been the greatest resource we have been offered, it is the dormant giant, it holds the huge potential for the european energy economy. it's all true, and the beauty of it is that it's so unideological. the main thing is to be technology neutral. the only point of interest here, and one which seems to be a little divisive, is the question of the binding nature of the objectives. i must say, commissioner, that i like your approach, the two-step approach, that you first approach member states with confidence and that you first build on voluntary agreements and then, if we find that we are not meeting the 2020 targets, perhaps tighten the thumbs. that's a good approach. the report is going in the right direction on the whole, there is not much to be said. i would like to emphasize one point, namely the role of the regional funds. you have mentioned it, commissioner: we have a huge instrument in our hands with the regional funds, with the cohesion funds in the european union, which we are not using! here in the field of energy efficiency we could finally create a european added value that we use in an innovative way, that we use for energy efficiency, which we have not done in the past. i am the rapporteur for the commission's discharge and i can see at the moment how much money we have wasted in the cohesion area. let's stop this! i think it is good, commissioner oettinger, that you have emphasized that you want to use these funds more for this instrument of energy efficiency. this is the only way to achieve real cohesion, at least in the energy sector. i would like to warn against the kind of incitement we have seen with the light bulb or the showerhead. these are things that scare off the citizens. we should therefore make sure that we pursue energy efficiency on a global scale, that we keep this objective in mind, but without running ideological campaigns that end up making citizens not like the eu as much.
the commission has already done so. of course, energy efficiency is a very important issue, and of course, you have to be very conservative with fossil fuels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they have to be efficient for society, but also for the individual, and it has to be affordable for the owner. it must be comprehensible and explainable to the citizen, and above all it must be worthwhile for the citizen. because without acceptance by the public, we're not going to make any progress on climate change. that is precisely the aspect which i find lacking in this report.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner tajani, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the staff and all those who have contributed to this excellent result. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as you can imagine, as rapporteur i am very pleased with this result. we will take another step towards reducing bureaucracy in europe by abolishing a total of eight directives which are outdated and obsolete. the interesting thing about these directives is that they have largely become obsolete, having been replaced by international standards that are up to date with the latest technology. the harmonized european regulations often render the rules of the member states obsolete. the european regulations are superseded by international regulations. if we want to get closer to our goal of having a quarter less bureaucracy in europe by 2012, we must make a commitment now. in the words of the chairman of the expert group on cutting red tape, edmund stoiber, we in europe must not only keep our mouths shut, but also blow the whistle loudly. that means we must follow our words with action. but the devil is often in the details of these acts. this is clearly demonstrated by the directive repealing eight directives in the field of measurement. in practice, cold water meters, unclean water meters, alcohol meters, certain weights, air pressure meters or devices for measuring the bulk density of grain or the dimensions of shipping containers have been replaced by more modern, digital devices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. this has no effect on the functioning of the internal market or on the high level of consumer protection which is always very important to us. the council has nevertheless blocked the dossier for a long time. but we have succeeded in reaching a reasonable compromise in the informal trilogue, even at first reading - which is always the exception for us - between the council and parliament. the content of the agreement is as follows: one directive on the measurement of marine tanks will be repealed immediately, with effect from 1 july 2011, the seven other directives will be repealed after the completion of the revision of the measuring instruments framework directive of the so-called mid , which the commission is currently working on. the commission will present a new proposal for the mid by the end of april 2011. the idea is that the commission will also consider, as part of the mid review, whether and, if so, which aspects of the old directives should be retained and, for this purpose, transferred to the mid. if member states demonstrate that certain aspects of the seven directives are still necessary, for example for consumer protection reasons, as in the case of the directive on pneumatic tyres, then these parts will be incorporated into the measuring instruments framework directive. the remaining directives will then be repealed after the mid revision is completed. this is a signal that europe is serious about cutting red tape and that we are willing to create the conditions for sustainable economic growth. i am proud that the european parliament is thus making its contribution to cutting red tape and to better, leaner and simpler legislation. i would like to conclude by saying a few words about the correlation tables. these are the tables that member states should draw up to show how they have implemented the directive. we have agreed on a softer wording here at the end. we have fought for stronger wording in the future and we have achieved that. the conference of presidents will make appropriate representations to the council and the commission. this is also a success which we owe to the reporters and the shadow reporters!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to say on behalf of my group that i am not at all euphoric about the repeal of these eight directives. in fact, there are some outdated measuring instruments whose regulations are being abolished, but in the discussions we have noticed that - as you said - the devil is in the detail. so it wasn't always clear that this was really the way to go. my group will support this compromise because we have received assurances from the commission that it is being examined whether these measuring instruments can be incorporated into the european directive on measuring instruments (mid), which is currently being drawn up, where necessary. this test mission - and i assume it too - will then be taken very seriously and seriously considered. in this context, we agree to the compromise, knowing full well that one or the other has yet to be examined. i would like to say that we have now agreed to accept the soft wording which is now in this text, but this is one of the last documents in which we have accepted it. we are concerned that the european law, which is created when the member states have agreed, is actually and properly implemented. but we can only check that if we have the information, and we get it from these correspondence tables. we'll definitely be working on that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. i think i can make it short because all the main points have been covered. our group will of course support the compromise, but we also expect the commission to take a critical look at it again when it revises the mid. we support the compromise reached in the tables of correspondence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, the member states must also be able to be checked, and for that we urgently need the tables of correspondence.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have spoken in the debate, because it means that there is interest in this proposal for simplification. i would like to stress once again the advantages of this choice and the benefits that follow. these are advantages for consumers, for instrument manufacturers and for national administrations. i would also like to assure you in particular, in reply to the point raised by mr gebhard, that the commission is prepared to carry out the studies necessary to review the arguments in favour of harmonisation by april 2011. in reply to mr rossi who left the chamber but criticised the commission, it would be good, after criticising, to also hear the reply there is a joint statement, parliament, council, commission, on this subject which reads verbatim 'in accordance with article 25 of directive 2004/22/ec on measuring instruments, the commission is invited by the european parliament and the council to report by 30 april 2011 on the application of the directive and to submit, if appropriate, a legislative proposal'. as i said in my speech at the beginning of the debate, i intend to respect that statement. thank you, mr president, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your commitment and cooperation. finally, on the tables of agreement, the commission supports parliament's position.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the members very much, also for the valuable contributions they have made this evening. after tomorrow's vote, we must now look to the future. we are naturally very anxious to see what the commission will do when it announces that it will present the proposal for the mid by the end of april. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the important thing, as mrs comi has said, is that there should be no legal vacuum. that was also a very important concern of the s&d group, mrs gebhardt. we were able to follow that. however, i also think it is important to mention that the member states have an obligation to demonstrate even more clearly why certain aspects must be preserved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am also looking forward to the internet consultation that the commission has announced and which will take place from 6 september to 1 november 2011. the companies involved, the authorities and so on are also involved. i'll have my ear to the farms again. i have also asked the existing directive whether these measuring instruments are still used, and i have always heard from the bank - for example from my wine-growing association, which i asked about the alcoholometer - that these instruments are no longer used at all. that's why we need to look very closely. if we really want to get closer to the goal of having 25% less bureaucracy in europe by 2012 - and that is not long to come - we must take big steps in this direction. finally, a word on the tables of correspondence. i would like to say at this point that this was once again a compromise, but for the future i would like to ask the member states to commit themselves to actually producing these tables, because what is really at stake is a uniform implementation of the regulation throughout europe.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the adoption of the toy directive: we had one objective in adopting it, namely to make children's toys safer. children, particularly those who are still growing or developing, are particularly sensitive to dangerous substances and chemicals. the european regulations we have adopted, taking into account the most up-to-date scientific data available at the time, have set the strictest requirements for toys in the world. as always, this issue is back on the table at christmas, and as an expectant mother myself, it is of course very close to my heart, and i think it is very important that we have the strictest standards. that is why i have taken part in this debate today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the maximum levels of heavy metals are not exceeded. it is precisely for such cases that we have included a clause in the directive which makes it possible to amend and tighten the limits subsequently. we must now make use of it. we have asked your predecessor to do the same a year ago, commissioner tajani. i am glad that the commission, although later than we requested and certainly also co-initiated by the debate today, will announce today, to my knowledge, that at least the limit values for certain heavy metals will be more strictly defined. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances. if it turns out that the limits need to be changed to protect our children, i would like to see improvements in this area too. after all, it's about the safety of our children.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. every year, we have this discussion about the safety of toys. every year we have to realize that there is a lot of trouble. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine for the treatment of the disease. the new findings clearly show that we must ensure that the limit values are adjusted, and we call on the commission to do so at last. i hope very much that this will happen, commissioner. but that's not the only problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. they have a responsibility to ensure that only toys that meet the safety standards we have set are put on the market. this is not always the case, and that is most regrettable. that is why we must ensure that these safety standards are improved. the third and last point i would like to raise concerns the labelling of toys. many people mistakenly believe that the ce marking is a safety mark. but it is not, and the commission itself says so. it is therefore time, commissioner, for the commission to think about how we can give a european safety mark which is really reliable and which is controlled by third parties, independent authorities or bodies, so that dangerous toys cannot be placed on the market, in shops and thus endanger the health of children. i think we have a great debt to pay and we have a lot of work to do.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i would just like to make a comment on mr harbour. that sounds very nice, mr. harbour, but i still think we need to do some homework ourselves. it cannot be a coincidence that every year before christmas, and this year too, we discuss the safety of children's toys in this parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. commissioner verheugen explicitly promised us last year that there would be new studies and that he would draw the necessary conclusions. these studies have been available since the middle of this year. the limit values for the so-called pahs, the carcinogens, are too high, according to the study by scher, the scientific committee on health and environmental risks. but the test methods are not reliable enough. we have to think about it. i would like to ask the commissioner how he intends to deal with this legacy, what conclusions he intends to draw from this criticism and what he intends to do in this area. the limit values for heavy metals, especially lead, are also as scher has noted in another study no longer appropriate. what does that mean for us? if we adjust the heavy metals, will we have different limits in the comitology procedure? i call on the commission to take action here too. we are also still waiting for the promised limits on noise pollution from children's toys. we were promised that when it was adopted at first reading, and it should be presented soon. i hope it comes soon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr tajani knows that we will be happy to work with him in this area. we have a rapporteur, christel schaldemose, who wants to take further steps in this area. we'll be working closely together. this will be the next important step alongside the question of the limits for heavy metals and carcinogens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i think we've rarely come together at the end of a year with more reason to be deeply concerned. the european parliament has been deeply concerned because europe is experiencing a growing and even multiplying crisis of confidence. there are reasons for this crisis of confidence. i want to try to describe some of these causes here. i believe we are facing a double-barreled assault. there is a salamandering tactic among those who hide the real situation from the people in their respective countries. it is a serious shake-up of people's trust when governments tell the people everything is easy, no problems, we have everything under control, and suddenly come overnight and say we need countless billions in aid. we've been through this twice now. and i don't know if we're not going to see it again, where governments say we've got it under control, we can finance our bonds even if interest rates go up. and then they come and say, "lifting, help us". you can't do that! what we need is a real stocktaking of the real debts of the states and also of the banks. i think it builds more confidence to say, "this is the real deal", no matter how bad it is. when the truth is on the table, it's easier to look for solutions. but there's also the other side's salamandering tactics. when those who are strong say, "we don't need to help". when these re-nationalization voices come: "we don't pay for the others" although those who say this know that of course we will have to stand together and pay in the end. the salamis tactic of not telling the people the truth, even though you know you have to pay and pay for your own interest, is just as trust-destroying. what about the different voices in the european council we are preparing? one says 'eurobonds', the other says 'no, no eurobonds'. one says "stabilize the life raft, raise, not raise". i wonder what the logic is in saying that these are all temporary measures because we have everything under control. but we must put the temporary measures in the treaty so that they will last. the last person to notice such a contradiction also shakes trust. it is also a shock to trust when a government stress-tests banks in the summer and then a few months later finds out that the stress test was actually for the euro and not for the banks. we are facing a crisis of confidence and i must also say to you, mr barroso, that what you said this morning may be true, but it is clear: we are not looking for the best solutions and putting them into practice, but let us talk about what we can agree on as a minimum consensus on friday. that's not enough! this is exacerbating the crisis of confidence. the policy of appeasing the national market in the short term is not enough. what we need is a policy that stabilizes the markets and stabilizes the euro. why is there no discussion in this house, why is there no discussion in the european council, about the external value of the euro? the euro is now at 1.34 to the us dollar. the lowest value during the crisis was 1.20, at the time of introduction 1.15. in intercontinental competition, where regions of the world compete economically with each other, it is no longer the individual national currency that counts, but the currency structure of the respective region. the eurozone is the strongest economic region in the world, both economically and socially. it is only politically in a state where the responsible authorities are weakening this area which is actually strong by their policies aimed at satisfying national debates in the short term. the euro is strong! the euro could be much stronger if those who frame it politically, if those who bear responsibility for it finally do their duty and take courageous and united decisions of a social and economic nature that put an end to the crisis of confidence. look at what's going on in london, look at what's going on in paris, look at what's going on in rome. if we do not put an end to this crisis of confidence, we will have great problems in the years to come. that is why i am appealing to the council: i am in favour of eurobonds. if there is another measure, then please take another measure, but agree at last that the euro is stabilized internally, externally it is strong enough.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the global economic and financial crisis has been on our minds for three years now! one consequence of the long debate is obvious: our measures are not addressing the roots of the crisis, but are still dealing with its symptoms. i repeat: decisions at eu level must not be driven by the financial markets. it is not possible that the banks should have got away with it so far, that they should have continued to speculate and that the risks of their operations should be borne by the states! the rigorous austerity packages for greece and ireland are burdening the population with the costs of the crisis they did not cause. this restricts consumption and prevents the necessary economic recovery. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. a permanent mechanism to safeguard financial stability must include measures to regulate market forces. these include the introduction of a financial transaction tax and the obligation to meet minimum social standards. the european parliament has also called for the european central bank to be given a role in the international monetary system. these are the first steps, but they are long overdue. and to put it bluntly, national boundaries are hampering the arrangements for effective financial market control. the heads of state and government are slowing down progress in the right direction. i'm including the german prime minister.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, let me thank sharon bowles for her question and also for the draft resolution on the permanent mechanism. i will try to give you the commission’s view on the five questions included in the oral question. the october european council invited president van rompuy to undertake consultations, together with the commission, on a limited treaty change required to establish a permanent mechanism for crisis resolution. it is understood that a limited treaty change implies the use of the simplified revision procedure based on article 48 of the treaty. the constraints of this procedure are that, firstly, it allows only treaty changes of the kind that do not increase the competences conferred on the union and, secondly, it is limited to changes to part three of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which relates to union policies and internal actions. it seems that the member states have a preference for a very limited treaty change which will presumably be placed under article 136, whose provisions are specific to the euro-area member states. the issue will be discussed of course in the european council this week. whatever change is suggested, parliament will be formally consulted on it. following the european council decision in october, the eurogroup agreed at its extraordinary meeting in november on the main principles of a european stability mechanism, or esm. according to the euro group agreement the esm will be an intergovernmental mechanism whose governance will be based on the model of the european financial stability facility. the concrete details of the financial mechanism have yet to be decided and should be worked out during the first quarter of next year. funding will of course be a key issue. the future instrument will need to be sufficiently robust and must enjoy strong credibility in the markets. any support from the esm will be based on strict conditionality. assistance provided to a euro-area member state should be based on a rigorous programme of economic and fiscal assessment and a thorough analysis of debt sustainability conducted by the commission together with the imf, and in liaison with the european central bank. despite the intergovernmental nature of the financing arm of the mechanism, the policy conditions will remain firmly grounded in the treaty so as to ensure full consistency with the common multilateral surveillance framework on which the whole economic and monetary union is in fact based. to answer one of mrs bowles’ five questions, no decision as to whether member states that are not members of the euro area could take part in the mechanism has been taken yet. it seems, nevertheless, that most member states have a preference for a transparent and clear framework where non-euro-area member states would be covered by the balance of payments mechanism while euro-area member states would be covered by the european stability mechanism. having said that, it should still be possible to have some non-euro-area member states associated in a support operation via bilateral contributions, as already applies today, in the case of ireland, to the united kingdom, sweden and denmark. let me also comment on the discussion on the eurobonds. let us recall that, in the context of establishing the financial backstops last 9 may – schuman day – and the following night, the commission made a proposal for a european financial stability mechanism, a community instrument, which in fact was adopted up to eur 60 billion, based on loan guarantees by the union budget under the own-resources decision. beyond the union budget we proposed that this mechanism should be based on loan guarantees provided by the member states, which would be channelled through this mechanism for countries that were in need of financial assistance because of financial instability over the euro area as a whole. this was rejected by the ecofin council on 9 and 10 may. why? because many member states considered that this proposal resembled too closely the eurobond. this then led to the creation of the european financial stability facility, which is an intergovernmental arrangement, and now we are using both the mechanism and the facility in the context of ireland. so while the issue of eurobonds is certainly a very important matter, we also have to take into account that this proposal was recently rejected by the council in the may discussions concerning the european financial stability mechanism. to conclude, let me underline that the future european stability mechanism will be part of a comprehensive response to contain the crisis and stabilise the european economy, and the esm will complement the new framework of reinforced economic governance which will focus first of all on prevention and will substantially reduce the probability of a crisis arising in the future. that is the whole essential purpose of the new system of economic governance and i am very grateful for your support for the commission’s proposals in this regard.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you listened to the first round, you could get an idea of who is to blame for this crisis of confidence - it has become one, that is true: firstly the commission, secondly the speculators, thirdly the council, especially mrs merkel. yes, it is relatively simple. fortunately, someone pointed out - the s&d group leader - that the euro is stable, not only externally but also internally, with the lowest inflation rates. it can't be the speculation. the euro is a stable element. it was the treaty foundations and the cacophony in the ecofin council. every ecofin meeting is a new turbulence! mr rehn has just pointed out that the commission has proposed a community instrument, but that the council has not been prepared to participate in this community instrument. we now say that the commission did not act - i am not one of those who always worship the commission - but it was correct that in 2008, after ten years of the euro, the commission took an exact inventory. it has identified four points which need to be regulated: a single european supervision, secondly a single governance, economic governance, whatever you want to call it, thirdly a single external representation and fourthly a single crisis mechanism. things are on the table. there were others who ignored them - i want to emphasize this explicitly. if we are looking for the culprits, we must not forget one culprit: the member states which have become extremely indebted, which have not used the advantages of the introduction of the euro to undertake reforms to reduce their debt, but to live beyond their means. i would like to stress that there is a common thread running through these countries. whoever it was, they have been ruled by social democrats for a long time or until now: portugal, spain, great britain, hungary, latvia. in greece, our four years were spent in the same shit. that's the result. if we do not talk openly about the root cause of the excessive indebtedness of the member states, we will not be able to cope. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you can sit down. you said it well, you said your little spell well. i have a question for you: ireland is not a southern european country, as far as i know, but is in the north of europe. ireland has huge debts. can you explain to us where the irish debt comes from and who has governed ireland for the last 30 years?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm happy to answer that. the irish government made the mistake of giving guarantees without calling for reform of the banking sector. that was irresponsible, and that's why she's now 32 percent net new debt. we know that! but do not confuse the problems of other countries with those of ireland. ireland is a very special case because it is a second level of the banking crisis and not a structural problem as in other cases. mr schulz, you know that as well as i do. don't let that distract you from your responsibilities. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. four years of karamanlis 's government has ... (unrest) no, no, the structural problems of greece are older. in this parliament, in 2000, there was a debate on whether we should take greece into the eurozone afterwards. it was the social democrats, the german federal government, who demanded this. here, with your help, we had a two-thirds majority for the subsequent admission of greece. that's the truth. this has nothing to do with nationalism! i have just given mr schulz an answer to his interim question on the debt of germany and spain. of course, spain's public debt is lower than germany's. spain has not had to face reunification. but the spanish zapatero government has other problems, it has let 6 million people into the country, 2 million of them have been given spanish citizenship, and now they have over 20% unemployment. that's the structural problem, and it has a name: zapatero.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in critical situations europe has always found a way out of the crisis. it is not because the interests were played off against each other, but because the interests were bundled together and because the bundling of interests opened up new avenues. i would have liked to ask mr barroso, but unfortunately he is no longer here. there are certainly important press conferences on the question of how to save europe with the lowest common denominator, but mr rehn may be able to pass on my question. i don't see why we can't go down this road: eurobonds are a sensible thing to do. mr schulz said that for my group, my party says that in germany too, where it is a critical issue. there are reservations, particularly from the german government, but there are also reservations from other countries that pay less interest. why don't we do this: we say these problems are solvable. we're going into eurobonds now, but we're putting together a sensible package. what do we need to do to make europe function again? how does money get into the register? how can we gain more control potential for a sensible long-term economy? we are going to get into eurobonds and we are going to link this with the introduction of the financial transaction tax in the european union. this is a bundle that can create a win-win situation that can bring gains on all sides. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to do so. why can't you do that? why does the commission not make such a proposal? it would help everyone and bring a great new project for europe out of the crisis! i am waiting for the commission to make this proposal. don't talk yourself out of it! it's your time! they must act now, in the interests of our citizens, in the interests of our countries, so that we can get back on a sound growth path! the fate is in your hands, but you must have the courage to take the initiative now.
i have to say, madam president, martin schulz is right. we are in a massive crisis of confidence and the council members are throwing sand in the eyes of the citizens. they tell them that everything is under control, that only minimal changes to the contract are needed, that a permanent stabilization mechanism is needed, and then everything will be fine. the situation is not under control. the member states react instead of acting, they jump from fire to fire, but they cannot put out the flames. and the markets are asking: who is really leading in europe and in the eurozone? the eu is at a very critical juncture. if we do not take the right path now, we will not even be able to defend the status quo, but we will see a setback. what we need are further steps of integration. we need more europe, we need to complete the internal market, including the services sector. we need not only monetary union but also economic, budgetary and fiscal union. and we need a strong commission which has the right and the power to actually steer and monitor this economic union and then also to trigger automatic sanctions when they are justified. if we have these steps of integration, then we can also talk about the introduction of eurobonds. then the conditions are right. we must also ensure that we have the investment resources we need in the long term, despite all the justified decisions to cut back, to ensure the competitiveness of the european union in the medium and long term. we must tell the people the truth. we need solutions without blinders and we need to discuss without ideology and stop trying to work through. what is required is long-term action, not short-term reaction.
i have to say, madam president, mr. hökmark, i can understand that you have to make a nice speech for the swedish home front. but please answer the following question: which country in the european union has the highest long-term public debt and which party governs that country?
i have to say, madam president, since the colleague does not answer the question, i will answer it for him. the country is called italy and is ruled by mr berlusconi. the christian democrats have ruled this country almost continuously since 1946.
colleagues, just to let the speaker and everybody know what is happening, we now have three more people who want to ask a blue-card question. as this possibility has been introduced by the working group on parliamentary reform, i am very sympathetic to that and we have enough time, but nevertheless i have to ask the speaker if he will take all those questions. then i would ask everybody whether we can take the questions in turn and then ask mr hökmark to answer. we will then finalise that part of the speaking time.
i have to say, madam president, i wanted to ask mr hökmark, who has been with us for some time, if he remembers that when monetary union was launched, belgium, greece and italy were over 130% of gdp in debt, greece went up, belgium went down by over 30%, italy by over 25%. does he remember?
i would like to emphasize this point. it shows a great lack of courtesy and respect. mr de rossa, a point of order?
that was just a point of order. mr. deer, you don't have to answer that. you may do that, but we are not in a question and answer session with the commission. i now give the floor to mr chastel on behalf of the council.
in writing. i would like to draw the council's attention to a problem - a problem which threatens to paralyse cooperation between our two institutions in the fisheries policy. the long-term management plan regulations are at issue. these regulations are at the heart of the common fisheries policy. the council, or a majority of the member states, does not accept that the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament a co-decision power for these regulations. the ministers are acting against the advice of the council's legal service, against the opinion of the commission and, of course, against the will of the european parliament. two management plans are currently pending in the council and cannot be adopted. the commission cannot propose further plans which are urgently needed in the interests of our fishermen and our seas and which have long been sitting in the drawer. this situation is unacceptable. i call on the belgian presidency and the forthcoming hungarian presidency to start negotiations with parliament immediately so that we can find a solution! we're ready to talk! thank you, thank you.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. european politics, like all politics, must not be politics without the citizens, or politics over their heads or behind their backs, but like all politics, european politics must be politics by the citizens, for the citizens and through the citizens. we want to bridge the gap between citizens and politics, between citizens and institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have achieved a great deal in terms of more democracy in the european union, but we have done too little to involve citizens themselves more in european decisions and debates. we are doing that with today's decision, with the launch of the european citizens' initiative. we have negotiated hard, and we have achieved many substantial improvements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. wherever it is in bold - as mr lamassoure has just pointed out - the text we are proposing replaces the result of the negotiations, the original commission draft. you will find that we have rewritten two thirds of the text and have made a considerable improvement on what the commission had already presented with great zeal. i would just like to mention the most important points: we've lowered the hurdles considerably. in particular, it will now only be necessary to collect signatures in at least one quarter of the member states, rather than in one third. of course we want them to be collected throughout europe, but this is about minimum barriers. we have, above all, almost completely eliminated the extremely unfortunate obstacle of having to wait until 300 000 signatures have been collected for a review of admissibility before citizens can continue to assemble. almost irreplaceably, we have brought in the idea of starting with a committee of initiators, which ensures that not every e-mail that reaches the commission and bears the title of a citizens' initiative already requires the full administrative effort, but that a minimum of seriousness is guaranteed, that is, whoever wants to collect a million signatures must first manage to bring together at least seven countries under his proposal. we've made sure there's more transparency and we've made sure there's binding hearings at the end. these hearings will take place in the european parliament and before parliament and the commission. the citizens will have the opportunity to explain their concerns. this is a great step forward, and we have not fought for ourselves, but - we should never forget this - for the citizens of europe, for their rights and for more effective and easier civic participation in europe. we have not achieved much. some of this is now reflected in the proposals of the left. however, the negotiations have been completed. we have reached an agreement with the council and the commission. we have had to give way in some areas, but the other side has also moved enormously, and we know that amendments are now more appearance than substance, which means that there is no way to change this result now. we shall have that possibility at the next review in three years' time. i would like to thank all those involved, staff, secretariats, co-rapporteurs, the commission and the council for the excellent cooperation and i believe that this form of cooperation across committee and group boundaries can be a model for the future. i would like to see a europe of the citizens, where the citizens realise that they are europe and where they are more involved than ever before.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have already made it clear this morning in the debate on the forthcoming european council that we have a problem of legitimacy in the european union. the root of this is that politics too often overrides the daily interests of citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the protest in many eu countries is an eloquent expression of this. the european citizens' initiative, on which we are voting today, is the first time in the history of the eu that we have an instrument which enables citizens to express their expectations and demands directly, to call for initiatives directly and in a comprehensible way, and to be directly involved in politics. the present regulation is a good one, although my group believes that it could and should have been even better. whether citizens in europe really take advantage of the citizens' initiative will ultimately depend on us here in parliament. how serious are we about our commitment to support the necessary publicity? in three years' time, will we be ready and able to make a strong case to the council and the commission for the further development of the initiative? the issues have already been set by the present regulation and we want to have a vote on these points again today. the value of the citizens' initiative is not measured by an interinstitutional compromise with the council and the commission, but by its actual use. the fact that the result is much better today - and i would like to thank mrs gurmai, mrs wallis, mr lamassoure and mr häfner for working closely together to develop this regulation - is also due to the fact that many civil society actors have repeatedly checked the reality and practicality of our reflections and debates. i would like to thank them for their work. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank all the actors who made this possible, and in particular the former vice-president sylvia-yvonne kaufmann, who made a great effort in the previous parliamentary term to make this day possible, to make the european citizens' initiative a reality. eu citizens sometimes feel that europe and its institutions are far away. the european citizens' initiative is an instrument which brings the institutions closer to the citizens. it is a great instrument for strengthening democracy, for getting involved, for taking initiatives. i think in the coming months, two things are going to be very important: first, that access - including digital access - to the citizens' initiative is provided via the internet, that it is simple but secure. secondly, if a citizens' initiative is successful, it should also be followed by a legal act. i would therefore ask the commission: how do you intend to decide in future whether to assess what constitutes a legal act or simply a hearing? perhaps you can answer that, commissioner, and i would like to thank you again for your work and for the work of the council.
i have to say, madam president, i am pleased to speak for my successor in the afco, because i have been following this project for 10 years and the european citizens' initiative was incorporated into the treaty text at the last minute. it was the members of this parliament and of the national parliaments who took the initiative at the time in the convention. this opens a new chapter in the relationship between citizens and the european institutions. we all hope that the distance between the people and european politics can be bridged. this citizen initiative is not a panacea, but it can help enormously. i would like to see a european public, that is to say, a debate on topical issues of interest to the citizens across borders. in my area of environmental policy, i can think of many issues that could be put on the european union's agenda with this instrument, especially the commission's agenda as a european government, as an executive. i would also ask the commission how it is preparing for these forthcoming initiatives. there must be no disappointment. i thank everyone, especially the rapporteurs, mrs gurmai and mr lamassoure, for the wonderful work they have done.
in writing. today's vote on the european citizens' initiative is a milestone for more democracy in europe. i welcome the compromise and will therefore support it, because the report by my colleagues alain lamassoure and zita gurmai is the first step in the right direction. we are not afraid of more citizen's will! let us give european citizens more say in the decisionmaking process and not just every five years in the european elections. these include courage, endurance, and strength. courage to enter into dialogue again and again. perseverance, because decisions cannot necessarily be made faster. and power, because our representative democracy, i think, finally has more participatory elements. our aim must remain to create more dialogue in europe between citizens and politicians. i am pleased that today, with the european citizens' initiative, we are taking a step closer to a people's europe. and i am convinced that one day we europeans will make european decisions together with a citizen's vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to make the following statement on behalf of our group on amendment no 13: this is a proposal made by my colleague, mr göran färm, on behalf of our group in the committee on budgets. we have not tabled this amendment again, but the green group has tabled it again with 40 signatures. we shall abstain on this motion. but i have reached an understanding with my green colleagues on this, and we are in complete agreement on this. but since we have said in principle that we will not be tabled any new amendments as a group, we shall abstain. i would like to say explicitly that we support this point on the financial transaction tax and hope that colleagues on the other side of the house will support us in the votes in the coming days.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to see this amendment formulated differently at the end. it is very negatively worded and i would ask you to put it this way: the initiative 'youth on the move' underlines the importance of the above mentioned programmes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's just a matter of the correct term for what it is. it has to say at the end of the text: extractive industries transparency initiative. that was wrong in the text.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. budgetary law is the parliament's royal prerogative. it is no different in the european parliament. responsibility, trust, partnership - these must be the three headings for cooperation between parliament, the commission and the council. the 2011 budgetary consultation procedure was not a confidence-building measure in this sense. i call on the commission, and above all on the council, to respect the rights of the european parliament, because, as i said, budgetary law is the royal prerogative of the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question is, who controls the regulatory authorities? even in football, referees have to undergo a control or approval process. what is true of football is even more true of the financial markets. in this case, the assessment of the creditworthiness or soundness of financial products, of banks, and even of countries, was left to the rating agencies. but when such rating agencies gain a monopoly position, when they get out of control, then such agencies become god-like institutions that are worshipped. and it is written in the first of the two commandments, "you shall have no other gods before me". the present report seeks to remedy this by introducing control of credit rating agencies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. - i have approved the report. parliament has shown its teeth in the negotiations with the council. the council has clearly approached parliament in the last year in the framework of the lisbon treaty. the council has to move on parliament's decision on the budget. the compromise seems viable.
in writing. - i have agreed to the draft report. once again, we are here to help eu citizens in need to get a foothold in a new working life after a company crisis.
in writing. - i was pleased to approve the report. the gradual regulation of financial markets is taking shape. investor protection will be improved and transparency increased. the rules are now broader and more comprehensive, thus increasing the protection of those involved.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because it is a major contribution to the ever-requested de-bureaucratization and thus to the repeal of over 20 directives which are no longer needed or obsolete. this is the way forward for a simpler and leaner europe.
in writing. − with the citizens' initiative adopted today, we have taken an important step towards bringing the european union closer to the citizens. this gives the citizens of the european union the opportunity to take an active part in political life. they are also able to engage politically and to call on the commission to act directly. it is important that the initiative is designed to be as citizen-friendly and simple as possible, without, however, encouraging abuse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the citizens' initiative will give us more democracy and will make a major contribution to making europe more modern and more alive for its citizens. i would like to appeal again to parliament and to the commission to give the committee on petitions a proper place in this procedure.
in writing. − despite the improvements in the compromise between the commission and parliament on the european citizens' initiative, unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles remain. the risk of instrumentalisation by large companies and groups, for example, is also present, since while transparency is guaranteed, there is no limit to corporate donations. for these reasons, among others, we abstained in the final vote. our criticisms include: economic organizations are not excluded from initiation. the question whether participation is possible from the age of 16 is not defined, but depends on the national electoral law. the participation of third country nationals living in the eu is not possible. 4. there is no reimbursement of costs from 100,000 signatures (5 cents per signature) onwards. this makes the initiative very costly for the initiators themselves and therefore not equally accessible to all. 5. corporate donations to support a european citizens' initiative are not prohibited or subject to any ceiling. the possibility of bringing an action before the european court of justice (ecj) if an initiative is rejected is not explicitly mentioned. the european commission is not obliged to give reasons for the rejection of an accompanying legislative proposal.
in writing. − i have just given my conditional approval to the eu commission's work programme for 2011. it no longer contains the announced communication from the directorate-general for enterprise on csr. instead, dg markets has launched an online consultation on 'disclosure of non-financial information by companies'. this is alarming and suggests a change in policy. the question for dg market is no longer whether eu regulation is necessary in the area of csr, but how it should be designed. in this context, dg enterprise had organised several 'transparency workshops' which made it clear that forced csr is strictly rejected by almost all social partners. since 2006, the enterprise dg has been in charge, since csr initiatives are contributions by companies to a sustainable society as part of their business activities. they are the result of entrepreneurial commitment, initiative and responsibility. there is a consensus on this basic understanding, which has been developed over many years in numerous multi-stakeholder forums. the institutional knowledge is in the enterprise dg, which has been the key driver of these processes. i urge the commission to leave the leadership and the design of csr to the enterprise dg. i remain firmly opposed to mandatory csr reporting, as it will create new bureaucracy and deter companies from additional voluntary commitment.
in writing. - as the voting list was changed at short notice, i did not have time to check the content and decide on a page accordingly.
in writing. - we want a mature and well-informed consumer who is able to make his decisions rationally. the aim is to provide the consumer with all the information necessary to enable him to make economically sound decisions. advertising also makes an important contribution to consumer information. however, it must also contain factual, reliable and relevant information. otherwise, consumer information quickly becomes misleading or even deceptive. the role of politics is therefore to ensure a fair and secure trading environment so that consumers can participate in the market on an equal footing. but it's also important to me that consumers are not victims. they are able to exert a great deal of influence by their purchasing decision. they just have to use it.
in writing. - i rejected the bendtsen report because it again sets out objectives which are not the same as those in the figures. it is only a report and not a legislative one, but the impact of the ecodesign directive has shown how carefully we have to deal with the situation. the light bulb ban has meant that i have to evacuate a room when a mercury spark plug bursts to avoid causing health damage. these are the things that must be stopped in time.
in writing. - i voted against this report. in principle, the approach of the report on the energy efficiency action plan to energy saving is welcome. however, i think that the way to set binding energy efficiency targets 'from the top' and to set binding modernisation and repair targets for private and public buildings (e.g. schools) is a mistake. in times of tight budgets in countries, municipalities and private households, these would be overburdened with such unrealistic requirements. even the european commission, whose buildings would also be affected by new efficiency criteria, recently had to admit that additional requirements for the energy renovation of its building stock could not be met. but the eu cannot ask others to do things it cannot do itself. these provisions also go far beyond the scope of the saxon economy, which is dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises, especially craft enterprises. they are a burden on businesses and are likely to lead to job losses and cost increases for consumers. in particular, i think that the requirement to apply energy efficiency criteria to public procurement is something to be criticized. the right way to save energy is through education and tax incentives.
in writing. - i reject this report. the report certainly contains some worthwhile proposals. however, i am not in favour of an 'advertising policy' with demands for restrictive measures which are difficult to implement in practice. in particular, the demands on local and regional authorities and private homeowners to renovate buildings in the energy sector are being ignored in view of the financial situation of the respondents. even the eu commission had to admit that large-scale energy-efficiency requirements for its building stock were not being met. the claim that energy renovations lead to direct cost savings has also been proved wrong in practice. the cost of energy supplies is rising faster, not least through investment in infrastructure construction and maintenance and renewable energy measures, than it is being held back by energy efficiency measures. the current eu energy efficiency directive, adopted in 2002, has been implemented in very different ways in different member states, so that there is no consistency across europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a very good one. i am very much in favour of a broad consensus-based debate on energy efficiency at all political levels and with all relevant actors and for the creation of incentive schemes. but i'm against regulations from above, where the mint is supposed to pay others.
madam president, my dear baroness ashton! the eu has a wealth of instruments to improve human rights policy in many countries. the eu is a regional power which should demand and promote human rights policy in multilateral fora more intensively than before. with the launch of the european external action service, will we now take the opportunity to reflect on whether eu human rights policy is having the impact it should? i hope so and welcome the review of existing human rights policy which you, baroness ashton, have announced. i am very concerned, however, about whether the structures planned to be set up in the foreign office for human rights work can be used in a meaningful way. there is a real danger that there will be even fewer resources than there are now and that we will not have a visible, audible, effective european human rights policy. the human rights division that is being set up is in danger of quickly becoming a fig leaf if there is no person, no structure at the highest level to represent human rights policy. nor will mainstreaming human rights alone lead to results. we need a substantial team of experts with a top-level anchorage, a mandate to all actors to take it seriously, and then mainstreaming across all policy areas and at central decision-making level is possible. it would be completely incomprehensible, unprofessional and a step backwards to rely solely on mainstreaming. those who suffer from violations of their most fundamental rights expect a different, effective human rights policy from the eu, not an administration of this issue.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i have to say, madam president, lady ashton! the european union is involved in afghanistan in many missions based on un resolutions. too many european soldiers have lost their young lives in afghanistan. many have been seriously injured or suffer the stresses of the assignment. thousands of european civilian aid workers risk their lives every day to help afghanistan to have a better future. we all have a right to know how the great european commitment in afghanistan can be made a lasting success and how long the military operation in afghanistan will last. what needs to change, what needs to be improved and what are the objectives of the new eu-afghanistan strategy? we need to step up efforts to rebuild civilians. we must finally move forward with the re-training of the afghan police and the re-training of the judiciary. we know that there will be no military solution, and that is why we must intensify our efforts to find a political solution to the conflict, particularly through the eu and a common foreign policy. the process of reconciliation within afghanistan, with the involvement of moderate taliban, must be pursued with determination. concrete initiatives, particularly at regional level, must be aimed at stabilising the situation. this includes, and in particular, the decisive fight against the cultivation and trafficking of drugs. our strategy makes some good suggestions. we demand from the afghan government a clear commitment to a better, that is to say, corruption-free, governance. the new eu strategy can only succeed if it is no longer passive but active, including neighbouring countries. lady ashton, we hope for you, we rely on you, you have our full support.
in writing. the report on a new strategy for afghanistan provides the much-needed critical picture of the situation in afghanistan. it is clear that the nato strategy of solving complex political and military problems by military means has failed. the european union is also calling for a new strategy for the reconstruction of civil society. i welcome the fact that, unlike many national parliaments, this report sends a clear signal that the end of the war and a substantial change in policy are necessary for the sustainable political, economic and democratic development of afghanistan. the report's main point is to be welcomed. i do not agree with the assessment that the afghanistan strategy of the recent nato summit can be successful. i demand the withdrawal of foreign troops from afghanistan. the eupol police mission has failed and should not be extended or expanded. i would like to make it clear that i am opposed to the report by voting by name on some of the paragraphs which concern these questions. i also regret that the report does not deal more critically with the tendency to subordinate civil reconstruction to military strategies and that it does not take sufficient account of the human rights situation, especially that of women.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, the nato summit in lisbon was a success for nato and indeed for its secretary-general. i was very pleased to have participated in some of its discussions. i will outline to honourable members what i think are the important results achieved, focusing particularly on eu-nato relations and i will not touch on the more internal nato issues. in lisbon, the heads of state and government agreed on a new strategic concept, a vision for the alliance for the next ten years. nato preserved its core tasks of collective defence and deterrents and recognised the importance of crisis management and cooperative security. lisbon also paved the way for important decisions for nato in a number of key areas such as missile defence, cyber defence, nato reform and nato’s contribution to stabilisation and reconstruction. in relation to afghanistan, which we just discussed and which is also an important area of cooperation between the eu and nato, decisions were taken on both transition and on long-term partnership. i am going to focus on how lisbon will in my view improve eu-nato relations. this was also on the agenda of the defence ministers’ meeting which i chaired last week and which was also attended by nato secretary-general anders rasmussen. nato is a key strategic partner for the european union. i welcome the recognition by nato heads of state and government of the important contribution the european union brings to security and stability. i would like to underline the strong political commitment to the strengthening of the eu-nato strategic partnership expressed by all, especially from president obama. i have been very actively engaged with member states and allies and the nato secretary-general in order to reinforce eu-nato relations. my participation in several nato high-level meetings, including the foreign affairs dinner at the nato lisbon summit, which also focused on eu-nato relations, has been instrumental in this regard. earlier this year i took the initiative of sending nato a set of concrete measures to reinforce eu-nato cooperation. many of these measures have already been implemented in the european union with the support of the secretary-general of nato. this generated opportunities for informal discussions on issues of common interest, as well as more eu political dialogue with all nato allies. my ambition is to pave the way to even more progress. i received a mandate for that at the european council on 16 september. in lisbon, secretary-general rasmussen received a similar mandate to work with me on reinforcing eu-nato relations. one area of progress is eu-nato cooperation on capability development, an area where we are achieving promising results, particularly on the military capability development, which is necessary for both enhancing military capabilities and maximising cost effectiveness. more than ever we have to ensure complementarity and avoid duplication. on 9 december, eu ministers of defence warmly welcomed the progress that has been achieved in strengthening cooperation with nato. we have already worked together, for example on helicopter availability, and we have now defined the building blocks on counter improvised explosive devices and medical support. these are both vitally important areas of work with real operational consequences for our troops serving in the field. just to give a couple of concrete examples. in the field of helicopter availability, we already had two exercises in france and in spain. similar exercises are planned for the next four years. in that context, we trained a 114 crews, that is over 1 300 personnel with 58 helicopters. as an immediate result, 63 trained crews were deployed in afghanistan. another example, this time in the field of countering road-side bombs, is the counter improvised explosive devices, where the european defence agency is in the final phase of purchasing a forensic laboratory which could be deployed in afghanistan next year. we have also continued to improve cooperation through the productive interaction between the european defence agency and the allied command for transformation. overall, my goal remains the development of true organisation-to-organisation relationship between the european union and nato. the meeting of ministers of defence last week paved the way to move forward towards that goal. pending wider solutions, it is essential that we can count on solid arrangements between us when we are deployed together in the same theatre. we owe this to our personnel. it is also essential to be able to continue to work effectively to support the member states and the allies to develop critical military capabilities, building on the successful work we have launched already. i would argue that this is even more important in the current context of the economic backdrop. we will all need flexibility to be able to take this forward and to find solutions. i will move forward in a concrete and pragmatic way working on behalf of all 27 member states.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the nato summit has shown that the cooperation between nato and the european union that was discussed there is of great importance. nato remains necessary for the collective security of europe, and it is important to bind america to it. the summit also made it clear that missile defence, which is now a joint nato project covering the whole of europe, is an important step towards further cooperation. but it also became clear - and the debate on afghanistan is an example - that there is a high level of civil and military cooperation, where the european union can make an important contribution. i think that this should be expanded accordingly. but we must recognize that there has been no progress on a crucial point, because the necessary cooperation, which we could do much better, has been vetoed by our nato partner turkey. madam vice-president, i think it is extremely important that this issue be raised, also in the context of the accession negotiations with turkey. we should not turn nato and the cooperation between nato and the european union into an instrument in the conflict with a member state of the european union which is not a member of nato. i therefore believe that the fact that turkey has not yet taken the necessary steps is a decisive weakness in our capacity to act. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the nato summit in lisbon is certainly of great importance to the eu and to this parliament, because the future of european security will only be achieved successfully if nato, the eu and also other organisations such as the osce make their respective contributions and cooperate sensibly. but the presentation of these results in lisbon so far is a pretty one. i 'll say it with a little sarcasm: nato may have a new strategy, but it still doesn't know where it wants to go. the very grand-mouthed fantasies of nato as the world's policeman have been abandoned, and that is certainly a certain progress. there is a little more modesty, but not enough clarity. let me demonstrate this with examples. example 1: military spending. the members of the european union want to save on defence expenditure through permanent structured cooperation, but under the heading 'missile defence' you sign blank cheques to nato. the secretary-general says 200 million, all the experts say it is more like 40 to 70 billion that this missile shield will cost, and they don't even know how to manage it. second example: nuclear disarmament. great was obama's vision in prague, global zero, we welcomed that. the european union has been unable to reach agreement on the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, but nato is now clinging to nuclear deterrence like a blind man to a lamp post. the former world powers in particular seem to find their nuclear weapons much more attractive than an ambitious european policy of nuclear disarmament. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we have done a lot as the european union. all of a sudden nato comes along and wants to do it. it will soon be a development policy. you suffer from a security personality disorder. let's finish this! let us ensure that in one year's time there is a white paper in which we make clear what we want in terms of security policy in europe!
madam president, i would like to welcome baroness ashton here. we have been listening to her comments on other issues and i think they are very interrelated. it would seem strange now to be very specific, but i would like to mention the further development of csdp in the framework of general cooperation with nato. i think that we really need an outside review of what has happened so far. you mentioned, on human rights, that it is time to take stock and move on. i think we need exactly the same with regard to the missions that we have had so far. i think you have an opportunity to start anew. you can look back and have an external expertise and a review in order to define more what our priorities really are and what capabilities we need. i would just like to mention that we have headline goals for 2010, but now we are at the end of 2010 and we are far from reaching them, including on the civilian side. the question is how we should move forward and i think it would be good to have a view. secondly, i really urge you to use the synergy post, which i hope will now be created in the framework of the setting up of the external action service, to strengthen the civilian management capabilities in your service. we have not had the chance to create new posts but at least should use them to strengthen this area. my last point, very briefly, is that there is a debate now going on regarding crisis response and national disaster response. i think we have to be careful there to keep the neutrality of the eu humanitarian response, even if it is sometimes difficult in crisis areas. i think this is an important issue.
i have to say, madam president, what are the eu's security and defence challenges in the light of the presentation of a new nato strategic concept? the eu's defence ministers have pointed out that the eu lacks adequate capabilities and capacities. the financial crisis and austerity measures are increasing the pressure on the eu and nato to concentrate military capabilities. the keywords sharing and pooling describe what is needed now. once the states have assessed what is possible here, the european defence agency must be put at the centre of joint capability development. the commission must also extend its cooperation with the european defence agency, which should also include community-funded research and development projects. do you agree with that? i have no time to speak on the other subject, so i would like to ask a question on the promotion of democracy. i would like to know from you how much money has actually been spent on the instrument for democracy and human rights without the consent of the governments of the countries concerned. i also have a word for election observation: we are partly inconsistent, not to say cowardly. after parts of the commission and some member states had urged an election observation mission in ethiopia and the report of the head of the election observation mission could not be presented in addis ababa, brussels was silent. my question is, where is your public protest? you have the opportunity to say something on this subject.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. there is a need for a number of explanations - also here in the plenary - in connection with the confusing debates which have been held in the political groups, in the conference of committee chairmen, but also in some cases in the committee. first, this regulation does not seek to decide what are delegated acts under article 290 and what are implementing acts under article 291. that is not what this regulation decides at all. that is decided in the basic act. in other words, the law itself will decide on the basis of authorization under article 290 or 291 if it so provides. the only decision here is on the procedure for an article 291 case. the second is the criticism of article 10. article 10 also concerns the procedure alone only the procedure and nothing else. the commission has made it clear that it is its intention to revise all existing pre-lisbon acts and to put forward new proposals to both the parliament and the council. this has been reinforced once again in comparison with the agreement we reached earlier at interinstitutional level. the only thing that is really new is the procedure in the field of foreign trade. i admit that the compromise reached by the belgian presidency is a bit bureaucratic. that's not a question. but that was the only possible solution in view of the two blocking minorities that existed in the council. i think this question is about the balance of goods. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. this is a very important step forward, also in terms of parliament's participation, and goes beyond the treaty. in the balancing of goods, therefore, one can only be in favour. i therefore support the report as it stands, without amendments. we shall not be able to achieve more at first reading than we could achieve in a later conciliation procedure in the not-too-distant future.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i am glad that we can have this debate together today, because i remember that we have both always worked with switzerland in the council of europe and therefore know how important it is that switzerland participates in these programmes. we in the european parliament, before renewing these programmes in 2006, naturally remembered that we do not live on an island, but that we should try to bring everyone on board. switzerland is not part of the european economic area, but it wanted to be part of this cultural and educational area. i was looking forward to it, just like everybody else. i was in the swiss parliamentary education committee in 2004. we have had a lot of discussions on these issues, on mobility, on cooperation between schools and universities. i knew that proposal would come, and i'm glad it did. we have not only thought of ourselves when we have drawn up these programmes, but also of all the neighbouring countries, the countries of the western balkans and switzerland in the middle. that is why we have taken a good step forward today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because she also wants to get a cultural heritage seal, which she can only get if she participates in this program. ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing today? we can say yes or we can say no. the idea of saying no is not going to be discussed here, because we have been in favour of switzerland joining us from the beginning. to participate means that she also pays, that must be added here. article 218 says we can only say yes or no, and we will of course be happy to say yes. what are the main points of this agreement with switzerland? of course, projects and initiatives of swiss participants are subject to the same conditions, rules and procedures as those of participants from the member states and the projects submitted by them. switzerland must set up a national agency, as we have in all our countries, to coordinate the implementation of the programmes at national level and to make a financial contribution to each of the programmes every year. in 2011, this would amount to eur 1.7 million for the 'youth in action' programme and eur 14.2 million for the 'lifelong learning' programme. the swiss confederation shall ensure that the swiss confederation's financial controls and audit measures comply with the provisions of the european union, including those concerning controls by the eu body and by the swiss authorities. the agreement then remains in force until one of the parties withdraws. but i don't think anyone would sign up for a program like this and then cancel it. it is in the interest of the young generation in switzerland, and of course also of young people around switzerland, who would certainly like to exchange with school classes in switzerland in the framework of comenius-region or also want to participate in the individual school partnership, in erasmus anyway. the swiss representatives will then of course be able to take part in the meetings of the programme committees on the points which concern switzerland. i can only say that we would like switzerland to take this step now in full. she's been interested for a long time. we hope that when the young generation has the chance to be with other young europeans, a stronger european consciousness will also develop in switzerland. then perhaps the next referenda will turn out differently from the previous ones. we are counting on the young generation and therefore on these two wonderful programmes. i'm sure the cultural program will be added in three years.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank everyone for warmly welcoming this initiative. it was my pleasure to have signed this act between the european union and the swiss confederation as my first act as commissioner for education, culture and youth. i welcome this development, and i wish switzerland was also in a position to join us in the culture programme, which they cannot for internal constitutional reasons. as many speakers stress, we welcome the creation of closer relations between the youth of switzerland and the youth of the eu member states. we see it as a means of paving the way for greater support for the european project in switzerland, which we hope will change its mind in future and decide to join us in the european union. i also take note that honourable members encourage other non-eu members to join this programme, something which we shall of course promote. thank you very much for your support.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i am glad that some of my colleagues from the pro-european ranks have also agreed that it is a wonderful thing that switzerland wants to join and that there is more european cooperation in education. it opens up horizons, perhaps for them too, but certainly for the young generation in switzerland. we are delighted. the fact that switzerland is unfortunately not in favour of this cooperation, since it has not held a referendum, has not been mentioned by mr mölzer at all. it is admirable that switzerland has not done this in this particular area, because it can be sure that the young generation has been waiting for this cooperation to be possible for a long time. the gentleman just didn't notice that there was no plebiscite here. you don't have to ask the people for everything. the good things, namely joining the european union, are something that will be taken for granted. i hope that through fruitful cooperation in these education and youth programmes, the young generation will grow up to be real europeans who will say: 'now we must also join the european union and share all other policies with europeans.' we are a continent, we should be united on these issues too. i am sure that the educational programmes will go a long way towards improving the european background of the swiss throughout the country.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. your answers here were not very convincing. the commission's statements in the committee on agriculture were also far from convincing. as my colleague george lyon has already said, the problem is coming to us. we will have 30% of the eggs on the market illegally by 2012 without knowing how to deal with them. now to trust that states will comply with their reporting obligations - excuse me, why not initiate infringement proceedings or at least threaten to do so, to make it quite clear that european law must in the end apply to all member states and to all farmers? we have a very high level of credibility in the animal welfare field, and we have to defend it. the citizens rightly trust that this will be implemented. we have a very sensitive public in the animal welfare field. we are also giving farmers funds, we are giving them public support, because we have stricter rules on the protection of the environment and animal welfare. we can then demand something in return from all the member states. the question is therefore: what is the commission doing now? we have already asked the committee to do so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we cannot accept that there is any discussion of extending the deadlines. it is totally unacceptable that we now punish those who have implemented by giving others the opportunity to work even longer with transitional periods. this is a major obstacle to the confidence of farmers in the european institutions. you raised the question in the labelling. what happens to products containing eggs, but not fresh eggs, but liquid eggs, for example? how do we label that? at least we should have that point settled immediately. it has been said many times: 10 years is a long time. the european union should have known that these deadlines had to be met. there is no excuse for any member state, including new member states, to say: 'we are sorry, the time has not been sufficient'. ten years is really enough. we are at the forefront of animal welfare in the european union. we're arguing it all over the world. we are arguing this with consumers and that is why we must implement it consistently, otherwise we will all lose - and ultimately this parliament and the commission in particular - credibility in the implementation of european standards. we therefore urge the commission to act and not to allow more time to pass and risk, in the end, having a situation as of 1 january 2012 which is very unsatisfactory for everyone.
the commission has already done so. i would like to make it quite clear that the abolition of caged laying hens is a matter of decision. the member states and egg producers have had sufficient time to implement the directive on the abandonment of conventional caging. the time has not yet expired, there are still 12 months until the exit. i believe that we must ensure that caging is completely abolished by 1 january 2012. it is not possible to say that the member states which have not yet transposed the directive will be threatened with legal consequences, such as fines. we should also ensure that eggs from farms which do not comply with european law are not marketed on the european internal market.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it has been known for 12 years that caging will be banned in the eu as of 1 january 2012. how is it then that some member states have not had the time to implement this in time and to prepare their poultry farms for it? this is one of many examples of frustration caused by poor implementation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of laying hens are respected. i call on the commission to enforce the law in force in all member states and to do everything possible to ensure that it is implemented! from january 2012 onwards, eggs may no longer be produced in cages and illegal eggs may no longer be placed on the market and thus harm competition. it is not right to punish economically all farmers who have converted to eu standards and to reward economically those who resist conversion. it is no longer possible to explain to the people of europe that eu law does not apply equally in all member states and that some member states are constantly caught off guard by delaying tactics. the recent crises have shown where this is going. we need a europe which acts together, not one in which everyone does what he wants without regard for others!
madam president, there are two additions to the text. after ‘list of individuals responsible for’, insert ‘severe’. then amend the next phrase to read: ‘human rights violations such as torture, censorship, rape and extra-judicial executions in iran’.
in writing. − the ban on conventional cages in 2012 is a major success for animal welfare. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the interests of the animals, but also of the producers who have already invested in alternative forms of farming, it is imperative to fight this europe-wide deadline. in order to ensure a level playing field, the commission must ensure that eggs which are not properly produced do not reach the european market. at the very least, however, the consumer must be able to identify eggs and egg products produced in accordance with european standards. when parliament passed this ban, i was the christian democrat representative for animal welfare in the german bundestag. and i defended that decision precisely because it was valid throughout europe. i expect the commission to take appropriate measures to ensure that the deadline is also respected in all member states. this means that after 2012 there can be no more conventional cages in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have the honour to welcome you to the afternoon session. the meeting has resumed, the last meeting before christmas and the new year. i should like to take this opportunity to welcome the board of the german war graves foundation in baden-württemberg, chaired by mr nothelfer. the volksbund in baden-württemberg is caring for 90,000 victims of war and dictatorship in baden-württemberg alone. thank you for this work and welcome to the european parliament.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on malaysia.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not alone in its concern to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. malaysia is an impressive country with great tradition and cultural richness. as members of the asean delegation, we have often witnessed how fast and impressively this country has grown. we were also impressed by the growing economic power that malaysia has, after all, among the top growth rates in the world. i would therefore like to say on behalf of my group, the social democrats, and probably also on behalf of all those who have signed the resolution, that we cannot understand at all that malaysia still practices this old method of punishment, which dates back to the colonial era and to us in europe to the middle ages. this criticism is not only coming from us, but also from the lawyers in malaysia themselves. the use of corporal punishment is against all un human rights conventions, and we believe that something must change quickly. we have been very pleased to see the asean charter, which in several articles and in the preamble repeatedly emphasizes that - and i quote - the promotion and protection of human rights is one of the essentials of the asean charter, which malaysia has also ratified. malaysia has long been committed to democratic principles. but this also means the rule of law with universal standards. we will say this again and again when we are in malaysia and in the asean countries, and the european parliament will confirm this with this resolution.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. we condemn the use of corporal punishment in malaysia. corporal punishment should not be seen as an old-fashioned, harmless educational tool, but as a cruel, humiliating and degrading punishment, as defined and prohibited by the convention against torture. if you have any doubts, you should watch a video of the practical application of this punishment in malaysia. these images are nothing short of brutal and cruel, and nothing short of torture. malaysia applies this cruel and degrading punishment to at least 66 offences, and approximately 1,000 people are beaten in malaysian prisons each year. in addition, in recent years this brutal treatment has been extended to undocumented migrants and drug addicts. it is estimated that between 350 000 and 900 000 people are affected. we therefore urge the malaysian government to put an end to this cruel, humiliating and degrading punishment immediately and to repeal the relevant laws in the medium term. malaysia is a member of the un human rights council. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. therefore, it would be good for malaysia to remain in this body, but also to implement the principles it represents.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. when you love someone, you have special needs for them. it is the same in relations between states. the countries with which we are particularly closely connected do not fall into the same category as some of the terrible dictatorships on other continents. malaysia is a valuable and close partner of the european union. its constitution is in some ways a model for a european constitution. that's why we take what's happening in malaysia very seriously. mr tannock, the whipping in malaysia was not introduced by the sharia, but by the british colonial government. the british colonial power is gone and britain has changed, so malaysia must change and try to abolish this outdated and barbaric punishment which is against international law and human rights. i must say very clearly: malaysia has been a country of tolerance between the different ethnic groups and religious communities for decades. it should remain on this path, it will remain on this path as a particularly close partner of the european union, which should succeed in overcoming this barbaric form of punishment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
mr posselt, that was not really a question from mr tannock.
a writer. mr president, i feel that this is a question and i would like to answer that, of course, corporal punishment is torture and that, of course, the prohibition of torture is part of human rights and international law, regardless of whether a country has ratified it or not.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission condemns the use of corporal punishment. it conflicts with international human rights principles and norms, as set out by the united nations. these principles are also reflected in the european union guidelines for eu policy towards third countries on torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the recent report by amnesty international on the practice of caning in malaysia is worrying. however, the commission would like to suggest widening the resolution to cover all countries where judicial caning unfortunately still occurs. the european union, together with the united nations, has quite regularly raised the question of caning with malaysia. some member states also did so in the context of the ratification of the un convention against torture and during the un human rights council’s universal periodic review, which took place in february 2009. only last week, at the united nations seminar on the occasion of human rights day, malaysia was urged to ratify more un conventions, in particular the un convention against torture. in early 2010 the same question was raised by the eu head of mission directly with the minister of foreign affairs. it is an issue to which we pay a lot of attention. the european union and malaysia will soon begin negotiations on a partnership and cooperation agreement, which will contain provisions on human rights. once this agreement enters into force, it will provide a sound formalised basis for a reinforced and regular dialogue with malaysia on human rights. in the meantime we will continue raising this issue with the malaysian authorities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on uganda: the bahati law and discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the un convention on human rights, the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union prohibit discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. the european union has not only obligations in the field of human rights within its own territory, but we also have an international obligation to insist on respect for these rights and to criticise abuses in our relations with third countries, all the more so since we also provide financial support through the european development fund to third countries such as uganda, which have concluded partnership agreements with us. we therefore have a right to speak out if these third countries do not respect the human rights clauses contained in such partnership agreements. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in uganda, and to provide information on the situation in the country. a year ago we called on uganda in a resolution to abandon its proposed law and the criminalization of homosexuals. a year later, the situation has worsened. long prison sentences, up to the death penalty, remain a threat. i myself demonstrated outside the ugandan embassy with others in may of this year. it all came to nothing. we would like to reiterate that the eu is opposed to the death penalty in general and to homophobic laws of this kind.
member of the commission. − mr president, the draft anti-homosexuality bill which was introduced in the ugandan parliament raises serious human rights issues. the protection of the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people is a priority for the eu. i fully share the european parliament’s concerns about the situation in uganda, but also in other countries where punitive and discriminatory legislation against lgbt people has been adopted or is under consideration. the commission considers that the criminalisation of homosexuality as foreseen in the draft bill goes against obligations under the united nations human rights convention, to which uganda is a party and by which it consequently has to abide. the draft bill also goes against the united nations declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity. the eu presidency and the eu head of mission in uganda raised this issue with the ugandan government on several occasions during meetings with the president, prime minister, minister of foreign affairs and minister of justice in formal political dialogue meetings, and also with the uganda human rights commission. the publication by the rolling stone newspaper on 2 october 2010 of a list with the photographs and names and addresses of people who were identified as gay, together with the headline ‘hang them’, was an outrageous act that put the lives of these people at risk, and we fully condemn it. the european union delegation continues to monitor the situation closely, together with the eu member states’ missions represented in uganda, as well as with partner countries like norway and the united states and the office of the high commissioner for human rights. the matter has also been addressed in the technical human rights working group, which is a forum for developing partners in uganda to discuss, monitor, coordinate and take concrete action in human rights-related cases. the commission intends to keep raising its concerns in relation to the draft anti-homosexuality bill and to other actions to persecute lgbt people in uganda on every occasion. the commission will continue to support local human rights organisations in their efforts to change attitudes in the country and to improve the legal situation for lgbt people.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the next debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the eritrean refugees being held hostage in sinai.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. thanks to a phone call between an eritrean priest in italy and an eritrean hostage, we have learned in the european public that unscrupulous traffickers are now threatening to shoot the stranded eritrean refugees unless a ransom is paid. the smuggling gang has no scruples and has already killed or shot several people. this brutal crime has given us a chance to look more closely at what is happening on the border between egypt and israel, where an increasing number of refugees are stranded trying to get to europe or israel without proper papers. there's a military checkpoint on the egyptian side. anyone who breaks in will be tried by military tribunals. according to human rights watch, at least 85 unarmed refugees have also been shot dead there since 2007 as they tried to cross the border. the israeli government says more than 1,000 migrants try to enter the country without papers every month, and has begun to tighten security and surveillance at the border. in addition, a large deportation camp has been set up in the negev desert. we call on the governments concerned to cooperate closely with the un refugee agency and to guarantee the protection and rights of refugees at their borders. but we also see clearly a responsibility on our part in europe to take care of the fate and the human rights violations suffered by those migrants who are turned away at our external borders and who cannot return to their home countries, as in the case of the eritrean refugees.
you asked to speak on the rules of procedure. you should speak on that and not something else.
mr president, i am afraid this is not a point of order. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is not in the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
you heard what the fellow asked for. if there are no objections, we will proceed as we have done. i see no objection to that.
i know ten percent is enough. that's not enough either. i asked you before, you had plenty of time. we shall now vote on this motion. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. i wish all my colleagues a safe journey home in this weather. i wish everyone a blessed christmas and a good start to what i hope will be a good year in 2011. (the sitting was closed at 4.35 p.m.)
