mr president, i would like to thank you. since turkey's ban on the kurdish party dtp, many party members have been arrested, including democratically elected mayors and former members of parliament. i myself visited turkey between christmas and new year's to attend the trial of the chairman of the dtp, ahmet türk, and despite the fact that his parliamentary immunity had not been lifted, the police were sent after him. last week, the mayor of diyarbakir, osman baydemir, was banned from leaving the country. this means that he will not be able to attend the conference on the kurdish question which will be held here in parliament on 3 and 4 february. that is why i would urge the president - and i hope the president has time to listen to the call - to protest to the turkish authorities and demand that the democratically elected mayor of diyarbakir be allowed to visit the european parliament next week.
mr president, i would like to thank you. almost a year ago, this house adopted my report on the consequences of the violent and brutal urbanisation policy in spain. the report, adopted by a very large majority, expressed serious concern at the many breaches of eu common law and the principles on which the eu is founded. for example, many citizens in spain, including a large number of eu citizens from other countries, find themselves exempt from corruption and other abuses by property companies, contractors, public officials and even elected officials. they're watching their homes being torn down. these are houses they've bought in good faith, but they don't even get compensation for it. so far we have received no response from the spanish government to all the criticisms raised in the report. i would therefore ask you to formally invite the spanish government to inform the european parliament of its position on the conclusions of the auken report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for this important initiative, because the european union faces a colossal challenge in preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. human trafficking is a fast-growing, lucrative business, and it is attractive because the penalties are low compared with other lucrative forms of organized crime, such as drug and arms trafficking. that's why we need to crack down on the people behind this. the victims of human trafficking are the most vulnerable and vulnerable people and they deserve our protection. we must not send them back into the arms of the traffickers. they must be offered residence permits. in addition, we must also focus on the demand for the services of the trafficked persons and take various measures, for example by criminalising the sale of prostitution and by tightening the penalties for the users of trafficked labour. i am therefore pleased that the commission is considering criminalising the abuse of trafficked people.
for the edf group. mr president, there was a lot of talk at cop15 about the so-called climate refugees. people have always fled from natural disasters, crop failures, droughts, floods and famine. the fact is that climate change and its immediate consequences for people and the environment is a problem we are forced to address. but i'm wondering if we're doing this the right way. i agree that we need to be more aware of the use of resources in our daily lives and to research new technologies. but we must not forget that we already have ways of dealing with sudden problems. for example, the cook islands were written about at cop15. the problem with the islands is that they are threatened by rising water levels. a dam would protect the islands, and a dam is actually a very affordable investment - just not for a poor island group. while we in the west are discussing wind energy, electric cars and solar energy and biofuels and new forms of waste sorting in europe's suburbs, many islands are disappearing quite slowly. so i ask: should the western world invest billions in climate technology whose effect is highly questionable, while millions of people can be helped by more familiar and cost-conscious measures? instead of arguing about statistics, evidence and research, we must now combat the consequences of climate change on a global scale with concrete action.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to ask the climate sceptics in this chamber: if nine out of ten doctors told you that they were more than 90 per cent sure that you were seriously ill, but that they had some medicine that could cure the disease, some medicine with no side effects, would you not take that medicine? of course you do. the world should, of course, react in copenhagen in the same way. similarly, of course, the world should react when over ninety percent of the world's leading scientists in the field say that global warming is real and that it is man-made. that is why the eu should also show leadership. it is clear that we can criticize the united states. it is clear that we can criticise china for not having the political will that was needed in copenhagen. but in this house we must take matters into our own hands, we must be critical of the eu's lack of action. the eu could have done two things, and the eu should do two things, in the run-up to the meeting in mexico. first, we should be leading the way in committing to reduction targets. that is to say, go from the 20 to the 30 percent reductions promised by the year 2020. secondly, we should put the amount of funding we are willing to offer into the long-term financing of adaptation to climate change that we know is coming. finally, it is clear that if we speak with one voice, it will also have an effect, because we will be better able to negotiate in a rational and unambiguous way than we did in copenhagen. mr callanan of the conservative group said: 'it would be crazy to raise our ambitions in the current state'. no, mr. callanan, it would be crazy not to raise our ambitions.
i would like to ask you, commissioner, to take this opportunity to thank the commission. you were translated into my earphones to say that the journey is as important as the destination. i must say that i disagree with that completely. only the part of the journey towards a democratic turkey can be supported. on the other hand, any part of the journey that leads in the wrong direction must be said no to. actions must follow words. i would like to know how long the commission will accept that part of the eu's accession aid to turkey is used to reward the political friends of the ruling party, while discriminating against ethnic and religious minorities, as a new study has shown. the eu should do something about that! i was at the dtp headquarters on 29 december when the police came to arrest ahmet türk, but i missed the commission and i missed the council. will the commission and the council undertake to appear in court and to stand up for human rights? finally, a question concerning the mayor of diyabakir, baydemir, who has been prevented by the turkish authorities from coming to this parliament: will you protest to turkey?
i have to say, madam president, i too share the assessment of the importance of this issue and therefore, when i sit and listen to the debate, i cannot help but wonder that apparently all the political groups except the group for european freedom and democracy believe that the fight for women's equality is something that women alone should take up. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think there is a glaring shortage of male speakers and i am glad that my group has been able to send two. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the labour market, wage differentials, education, the regulation of board positions and so on are all very much in the spotlight, which is also important, but there is one area in particular - which a previous speaker has already mentioned - which is completely absent, namely the enormous cultural problem we are facing as a result of immigration from the islamic world. i think it is a little embarrassing that a report which is supposed to be about equal rights for women does not mention at all the problems of forced marriages, forced veils, honour killings, circumcision, lack of access to education, etc. these elements must be included in order to give a fair picture of europe in 2010.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the tarabella report on equality between men and women is an excellent illustration of the major challenges we face in the field of equality in the european union. one of the challenges is to increase the proportion of women on the boards of private and public companies, especially in the financial sector. we are in the midst of an economic crisis where we need to bring all the talents to bear if we are to create the growth that is needed. it is simply our competitiveness that is at stake. that is why the eu must learn from norway. back in 2002, the then norwegian minister of enterprise initiated a proposal for a minimum of 40% of each gender on company boards, based on a cold calculation: norway needs to bring all talents into play if the country is to survive in global competition. the current pattern of recruitment, where men recruit men, is destructive in terms of generating innovation and growth. we must exploit the potential of both sexes and in the eu take the initiative to legislate similarly to norway. in 2002, there were about 200 women board members in norway; today, the number is almost five times higher. at the same time, several studies show that companies with both sexes represented on the board of directors do better financially. therefore, it is simply common sense to fight for equality.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating mr barroso because the president of the commission has really succeeded in putting together a commission which reflects his political project with the eu. however, the fact is that we in our group are totally opposed to this political project. for example, wage-earners in many countries have experienced how the eu increasingly amounts to an undermining of wage and working conditions. we have repeatedly asked the president of the commission what he will do in concrete terms to ensure that migrant workers are no longer underpaid, discriminated against and used as a means of reducing wages. the problem is that we have not received any concrete answers. we have not received any concrete answers either. we must therefore say that we are facing a commission which accepts social dumping. a commission for which the single market is more important than the defence of the interests of ordinary employees. however, at one point we had some hope, because mr barroso made a great deal of emphasis during the meeting of our group on how much he was a supporter of gender equality. but words alone do not do it. when the barroso commission i was appointed in 2004, 9 out of 25 commissioners were women. today, mr barroso is presenting a commission for approval, in which only 8 women out of 27 are present. it's gotten worse. we must note that mr barroso is also delivering words rather than substance in this area. it's a short one.
in writing. - mr president, many good things have been said about mr barroso's new team of commissioners, and rightly so. i take the floor because it is necessary to point out one major mistake made in the new commission: the search for the post of commissioner for communications is in vain. it has simply been disclaimed and this is clearly felt at a time when more than ever a sound, coordinated and well thought-out communication policy for the eu is needed. a few weeks ago i sent a letter to mr barroso to express my concern on behalf of the alde group and to ask him why we no longer have a commissioner for communications. there has never been an answer, and it may be a kind of answer, though not a satisfactory one. today, therefore, nobody seems to know why the eu does not have a commissioner for this incredibly important - yes, absolutely crucial - area, if the many big words about getting closer to the eu citizens and creating a common european public space are anything but - just - pretty words. i am still waiting for a reply from mr barroso - i would very much like a reply with a proper communication plan for the next five years.
for the edf group. mr president, we are talking about endangered species today. we're talking about sharks and tuna and polar bears and big cats and elephants. we are talking about quotas, conservation, habitat conservation and so on and so forth. we are talking about whether these animals should be listed under appendix 1 or appendix 2, or whether we can just use them loose. there are at least two sides to the debate in this chamber. one side wants to bring total peace to a number of species that are on the verge of extinction. the other side cannot get the catch and consumption quotas high enough and promises local fishermen short-term fishing rights which lead to the total extinction of certain species in a short time. we need a well-balanced middle ground that ensures that we and our planet can thrive in the future. the documents we have are full of so many technical details that one can get the impression that we are all specialists in this field. but should we not spend our time, for example, collectively preventing fish and shellfish from being fished during the breeding season in general, ensuring that animals, plants and fish remain viable food suppliers well into the future, giving the animals we eat a sensible life for the species before they are slaughtered in a humane way? we are thinking short-sightedly and not about the necessary biodiversity of the planet. this is not just a question of endangered species, but of a much more complex subject. there is a lot to be done, and it would be nice if we started to prevent rather than react at the last minute.
in writing. - my positive vote should not be seen as supporting the proposals in the resolution which imply a transfer of more power from the member states to the eu, such as:- to have the eu decide on stricter sanctions in this area,- references to the eu's enhanced action in the field of criminal justice in the lisbon treaty,- and the establishment of an overall legislative framework in this area.
for the edf group. mr president, i do not feel as my predecessor did. i welcome the free trade agreement with south korea. in my view, it is in the clear interest of the eu to link the democratic countries of asia, including south korea, as closely as possible to europe. for a long time, because of protectionism, there was an imbalance in trade between europe and south korea, between a free trade eu and a protectionist south korea. south korea was an agricultural society just a few decades ago and has rapidly developed into an industrial society with a resulting urbanisation rate of 81%. it is now the world's 11th largest economy and the eu's fourth largest trading partner. south korea is a key ally in a strategically important area. the country is forecast to become even more dominant in the high-tech sector in a decade's time. south korea must compete with the economic and military giant of the north, china, which is also its largest trading partner. in terms of competitiveness, china has almost inexhaustible resources in the form of cheap labour. therefore, china is the country's main commercial competitor. the eu can, by imposing quality requirements on south korea, make its products more suitable for export to the usa and europe, much better than chinese products, and we are all interested in their being so. the present free trade agreement, as has been said in this chamber, will eliminate a customs value of eur 1.6 billion annually. this may all be very good, but for me the question is whether south korean industry has been sufficiently liberalised and whether the roadmap for the free trade agreement can be respected in view of the fact that south korea still provides exceptional support to certain industries such as the pharmaceutical and electronics industries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. and welcome to the house, mr barnier, and good luck with your job. i have actually looked forward to standing here today and discussing online gambling with you because you, in your hearing in parliament, put a lot of emphasis on having the attitude that the internal market should be for the citizens and not the other way around. here we have a very good chance to show it in practice. i should like to begin by saying that i support the initiatives you have mentioned. they were a little vague, but i think it makes sense to draw up a green paper, to launch a lot of studies, to collect data, to gain knowledge of this field in a way that gives us an overview of what it looks like at european level. but i would also like to remind you of the political realities. it is true that when my report was adopted in march there was also a minority opinion. but it was a clear majority in parliament that supported my report, and there is also a great, great support in the council for us to have clarification, but at the same time to ensure that it is up to the member states to define how they will regulate the whole field of play. what we need in the online sphere, of course, is to find out how we can protect citizens, to look at what the social costs are and so on. i would like a clearer answer, though. you have just joined, you are new, but i would like a little more clarity on whether your line would be to drop the infringement cases and go into a much more constructive dialogue with parliament and the council so that we can find out how we deal with this. so stop letting the court decide the cases, let us make political decisions about them. is that the line you want to run or not? i would like to have a very clear answer to that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this affair this report is basically an embarrassing chapter in the history of the un. who can properly address the question of the gaza war without also including the thousands of qassam rockets that have been raining down on the peaceful citizens of israel for eight years? who can properly address this question without mentioning the hundreds of tunnels between egypt, gaza and other areas where arms are smuggled for the sole purpose of harming jewish interests in israel? who can properly write a report like this without mentioning that israel has a well-functioning judicial system, while not one of the murderers in palestine, not one of the terrorists in palestine, has ever been held accountable for their crimes? the answer to all three questions is that the person is judge goldstone. and this is a scandal! it is embarrassing for the un system, and by having this debate in this parliament at all we are making it an embarrassing affair for the eu as well.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is high time that our fisheries policy was reformed. but i would like it to be more ambitious, especially as it concerns a future viable fish stock in our waters. it is quite rare for me to agree with the green group, but in this case i must admit that i do. in fact, their amendments are both responsible and necessary to preserve fisheries as a profession in the future. my question to the council and the commission will probably not please our guests here today, but it will be of crucial importance for the future. the question is: how do we get a catch ban across the eu for all fish and shellfish in their respective breeding seasons? everyone knows that every time we catch a cod with a stomach full of eggs, we catch all future generations of cod. this makes it almost impossible to ensure a stable cod stock, to give just one recent example. i am glad that the new green paper will now focus much more on coastal fisheries. this is not only good for the environment but also for the preservation of local jobs. it is also good that the green paper emphasizes sustainable aquaculture, so that we can avoid fishing the oceans thinly off the coasts of third countries. just like we're not supposed to fish exotic and endangered species just because sushi has become modern.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think the common european fisheries policy is important. but it is also important that fisheries policy be supported by the citizens of europe and all stakeholders in the fisheries sector. there is therefore no way around greater regionalisation, so that responsibility for implementing the european framework and objectives is decentralised. the 'discard' of fish needs to be minimised, but to do so, the policies that motivate 'discard' need to be reviewed. illegal fishing must be stopped. it is destroying so much for the law-abiding fishermen. there must be stronger and more uniform controls in the member states. the coastal fishing sector must be strengthened so that smaller boats are given a special status. the same day, fresh fish are delivered, the fish are sold at a good price, and this is good for the environment and fish stocks. i hope that these elements will be strongly placed in the final reform. it's needed.
for the edf group. mr president, thank you, mr bairbre de brún, for your enormous work in updating this technical regulation on travelling with your pet within the eu. for many ordinary families, the challenge is the vaccinations and paperwork that must be completed before all family members can go on vacation together. but it is necessary because some countries are fighting a hard, years-long battle against uncontrollable animal diseases. the measures are many: quarantines of varying duration, double checks with veterinarians both before and after travel depending on the country of travel, costly compulsory vaccination of wild animals nationwide, to name just a few. so i can understand that some member states are afraid to relax their strict national regulations, and i see it as a necessity that we respect their high security requirements and would like others to follow suit. i would therefore like to ask the commission whether it was not a good idea to carry out a veterinary border check whereby pet owners can show that the animal they are bringing is free from dangerous diseases, that it has its vaccinations and papers in order in relation to the country of departure. it also allows for the control of movements of pigs and other animals which do not meet eu requirements, and the detection of the smuggling of premature puppies and kittens at border controls.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am the shadow rapporteur for the report on the single market scoreboard and i shall therefore concentrate on that, and here it is a happy day. it is a day when we can all agree that these scoreboards work really well! they are basically a great success and therefore one can probably only agree that more should be done to promote them. i am also pleased to note that the social democrats seem to have found that voting against it is not a good idea at all. as regards the famous test which has been proposed, we in the liberal group naturally support this proposal and have a little difficulty understanding the arguments which are a little defensive against this proposal. but we can get back to that. i would just like to say that, as a general point of view, it is good that there is broad agreement on the proposals and the report as a whole. i should like to concentrate on a few of the good things that i think have been brought out in the report. firstly, it has succeeded in focusing attention on the need for greater powers in the administrations of the member states, both at national, regional and local level. i think one of the problems with the scoreboards is that there is still a lack of competence in the way things are done. so it is good that it is in the report. another good thing is that there is a focus on enforcement. many good things have been said about the solvit centres, and i agree with them. and as the last speaker was saying, we could easily introduce a solvit day in this house. i think the biggest problem with solvit today is that it is not well known. there is a real need to focus on solvit - much more than is being done today - which brings me to my last point, which is to stress, as the report also shows, that this is a matter of dissemination. we really need to make sure that we are beating the drums in front of the press and the public at large and that we are making sure that much more attention is paid to things like solvit and the scoreboards. i would like to say that i am very pleased to be able to say on behalf of my group that we wholeheartedly support this report and i hope, of course, that the commission - and i can understand that - will ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for a good debate today. i am glad that mr barnier and mr dalli have given so much support to the need to think about consumers in the internal market. but i would like to draw attention to a particular point in mrs hedges' report, namely paragraph 40, where we propose the creation of a european consumer agency. i'd like to hear if that's something you'd like to work on. such an agency can help collect data, it can help make studies on consumer behaviour and it can also, of course, act as a watchdog on the work of the commission and on the work of parliament on consumer issues. so i would like to hear what you think of the idea, whether you will work for it and for my part we could easily place such an agency either in malta or in france if it can help the process.
the commission is not i have asked to speak because the timeframe for this important additional protocol has not allowed for a debate in committee or in plenary. the subject we are dealing with today, with an additional protocol, will enable the eu countries to fight together against pollution in the atlantic. the agreement forms part of a network of regional sea agreements concluded by the eu with a number of individual member states and neighbouring third countries. each of these agreements covers different parts of the sea around the eu countries and aims at individual and/or collective action by the parties to the agreement in the event of pollution or threat of pollution of the seas or coasts. i will not hide the fact that i very much hope that this additional protocol will make it possible to combat a wide range of pollution in the atlantic. it is also a protocol that has been in the making for far too long. it has taken 20 years because of the differences between morocco and spain on western sahara. that's 20 years wasted. the marine environment will not be restored in those years, but it only underlines the importance of not prolonging the process any further. i therefore hope that (as we did when we discussed the matter in committee) there will be broad support among the members of this house and i thank you very much for your support.
member of the commission. − madam president, first to mr leinen, i think it is a very good idea that, whenever delegations do go out, you have the time and priority also to get climate on the agenda. this is very important and it could be very useful to compare notes, so that when you get a piece of information in one country and i get information one month later, we get together sometimes and compare notes so that we can really build on the information that we each receive. the risk of ending up in some doha-like process was the very reason why we applied so much pressure for copenhagen in order to do our utmost to try and avoid that situation. you are also right that it is dangerous now: if we did not make it in copenhagen, could it then drag on for ever? that is why i would like to see a specific road map with exact deliverables for each event, and an exact date on which we have to conclude it. i think that is a very good point. the last question was about the kyoto protocol and the continuation of the kyoto protocol. we all know there are problems with the kyoto protocol. we all know there are many countries that do not want to be part of it and all these challenges. in the end, it is also a challenge for the european union. we cannot stand there alone in the kyoto protocol. i think it is very important that europe gets better at not taking the blame when we are not to be blamed. we are not the problem vis-à-vis the kyoto protocol. we delivered before anybody else. we have delivered and lived up to our formal pledges in the first period from 2008 to 2012. we will deliver whatever we have pledged to deliver and we are also ready to continue the kyoto protocol. the eu in this context is not the problem. it is other parties that are the problem here and they will have to find out if they want an alternative, should there be one, or how they will cope with the continuation, the second commitment period. that is why this is an open issue that we must discuss but, as chris davies has already said, we are dependent on what other parties do. we should be careful. why should it be us that kills the kyoto protocol? we have lived up to our promises in the kyoto protocol, so sometimes we should be better in europe at not taking the blame where others deserve the blame. on the proposal on the institutions here, i can say that i have already raised that issue in my own cabinet. i think it is a natural thing. i would very much like to work with parliament. if you could work with parliament then i will work with the commission. i think it is a logical thing also vis-à-vis the citizens. to claude turmes, regarding the quick start and how i can link with commissioner piebalgs, you may have noticed that this communication was produced together with mr piebalgs. he has co-signed here, because we know that it is very important that we try to work together also on his portfolio and how that can be used in a very positive way. we two commissioners are already having this kind of discussion. i understand your point on big cities. i think that c40 and lots of other initiatives are very good, and you are also right that much of the emissions will be related to cities and lifestyle in the cities. the challenge here is that much of the planning and other types of tools that can really address these issues often lie with member states, but i agree with you and i have also worked with some of the major cities prior to copenhagen. that is an aspect that we should bear in mind and try to see how we can develop it further. also, for instance, when it comes to transportation and the decarbonisation of transport, it goes without saying that the major cities will be key to finding solutions there.
i have to say, madam president, welcome to the house, mrs. hedegaard! they have said many good things, and there are many good things in the communiqué. i'm going to focus on the things i disagree with. i very much disagree with a strategy which is that we accept now that we will not get an agreement in mexico. so my question to you is, is this just something you decide? or do you need a mandate - and if so, from whom? are they heads of state? or is it the codecision procedure, or what is it? i hope that strategy can be changed. it is not helpful to say: 'what if a huge momentum is being built up, and there are high expectations, and then it doesn't happen - can you explain two failures?' i'll tell you what. you don't have to worry about that. the united states and china and others will make sure that there are no huge expectations for mexico. the eu's role should not be to lower expectations the eu's role should be to raise expectations! if you say before the meeting: 'listen, we are willing to accept that there will be no big deal, and so on', you are already moving the criteria for success before the start. it's a whole new starting point, and then the deal just gets worse.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. there are many good reasons why we should discuss the arctic. a number of them have been mentioned. there is the issue of climate change, where the arctic is being hit hard by global warming. there is the question of natural resources, of which the arctic is a region of immense wealth. and then there is the question of opening up the northern sea route, which means completely new transport patterns. but for my group, the decisive factor is the approach we take to the arctic. is our starting point all the benefits that the european union can derive from the arctic in a narrow sense? or is our starting point how developments in the arctic can benefit the global community and, indeed, while fully respecting the right of self-determination of the arctic peoples? a crucial test of that question is whether we are to work towards the arctic becoming a zone where a new arms race can be allowed to flourish - here russia has played an active role and others have followed suit - or whether the arctic, like the south pole, should be a demilitarised area. of course, there's a difference between the north pole and the south pole, between the arctic and the antarctic. but it is interesting that a treaty on antarctica has been drawn up, which excludes military presence and says that it can only be used for peaceful purposes. the big question for the commission is therefore whether it will work towards contributing to the objective of the arctic becoming a demilitarised area and, if so, what concrete initiatives will the commission take in that direction.
i have to say, madam president, i see that both the commission and the high representative believe that the eu should define a policy for the arctic. i am naturally sympathetic to the idea of protecting the environment in the arctic, just as i, as a dane, am acutely aware of the geopolitical situation. the problems of the local population are not unknown to me either, and we must of course respect their way of life. but that said, i do not think that the eu should have a policy in this area, nor do i think that the eu should assume a managerial role in the arctic. i do not think it is in the union's interest or in the arctic's. instead, i think it should be left to the countries directly involved in the region. it cannot and should not be the job of the eu to have a policy in all areas, especially when, as in the arctic, it is a region with a tradition of really good cooperation and where only two (and not three, as i said) of the countries involved are members of the eu. neither the united states, canada, greenland nor russia have expressed a desire to become members of the european union. it is easy to suspect that the sudden interest in the area is more about getting our hands on any raw materials than anything else. in other words, the best policy in the arctic will be for the eu to stay out of it.
i have to say, madam president, it is important that the eu is present in the debate on the arctic, and it is also good that the eu is showing commitment to the region, where many interests and concerns are at stake. the most important thing, in my view, is that the eu's action is consistent with and respects the wishes and needs of indigenous peoples. the eu must take responsibility for global warming, which is particularly evident in the form of temperature increases. we must be aware of the implications for the people's living conditions. we also know that climate change will give us easier access to resources such as oil and gas and to new transport routes from europe to asia. on the one hand, this can be a positive thing, but on the other hand we must ensure that we establish safeguards which take full account of the very specific climate and the fragile environment of the arctic. with the growing economic interests in the arctic, it is also important that the eu has a position on the actions of different countries in the area. it is not to be ignored that countries do not respect the international rules of the game which apply here. a striking example is currently being given, whereby canada will establish a mandatory ship register for all large ships passing through the northwest passage from july 2010. i would like to emphasize that we are talking about international waters and that the danish foreign minister, lene espersen, has also clearly stated that this cannot be acceptable. that is a position which i would like to see the eu and the high representative support.
i have to say, madam president, there is reason to rejoice at the set plan. without the 59 billion euros now being invested in good energy projects, we will not reach our 20% renewable energy target by 2020. two thirds of the funds in the set plan are investments in real and sustainable renewable energy. this applies to solar cells, wind turbines and biomass. but the set plan is not only important and right because it ensures cleaner energy. the set plan is also crucial in our efforts to put the social and economic crisis behind us. with these massive investments in modern energy technology, we will be able to create hundreds of thousands of new green jobs. we will also be able to make the eu a centre of knowledge in the field of green and sustainable technology. but we must also remember that there is a responsibility that comes with these investments. a responsibility to ensure that the many people currently working in the energy sector have the opportunity to be re-trained and up-skill. this is why investments in technology must go hand in hand with investments in people.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, the debate we are having today is helping to give a real face to human suffering and to broaden our empathy and our capacity for empathy. in that sense, it is really valuable that we have gilad shalit on the agenda today. it moves us to extend our compassion to others, to empathize with their suffering and that of their families. there are thousands of palestinians being held in prison under conditions which are totally unacceptable and in all respects contrary to international rules, and it is just as bad for them as it is for gilad shalit and his family. we must do our utmost - and i feel that we are all inclined to do so - and really take this problem seriously. the problem is not one prisoner in particular, but thousands of prisoners who are victims of this great conflict. i would add that it is important that we face the cause of these sufferings, that we understand that if we do not do something not only about the siege of gaza but also about the occupation of palestine in general and create the toast that i think we all ask for and want, there will be no future for these people. i think that is a really fruitful way of finding a common solution and i hope that mrs ashton will help to ensure that the eu can do more than just pay and pay and pay and then get away with it a little bit every now and then.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i am not sure that this is the case. citizens' distrust of the eu is growing. the low turnout in the european elections speaks for itself. if the european citizens' initiative is interpreted as meaning that only a few people can use it, this will worsen the situation. that is why our group calls for the rules not to be made too strict. for example, questions can easily be of european relevance, even if the first million signatures come from only a very few countries. however, as the european parliament we can also do something to take the citizens' initiative seriously. we can decide here in the house that every time a citizens' initiative has been approved we commit ourselves to having a debate in this house. a debate which may lead to an opinion on the initiative in question. in this way we will also take the wishes of the citizens seriously and i hope that we can get something like this adopted jointly between the groups, for example in the form of an amendment to the rules of procedure.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we in the danish people's party have voted against this report. but i really feel the need to thank you for a number of the points made in the report. in particular, paragraph 27, which states quite frankly that the euro will naturally lead to closer coordination of economic policy in the euro area. i am of course completely opposed to this formulation, but i would like to thank the rapporteur for the clarity and honesty he has shown in his approach to the euro. the euro is a construct designed to achieve greater economic uniformity in europe, i.e. fiscal policy, labour market policy, structural policy - all economic areas, everything of economic importance - must be unified. that is what we are seeing in greece at the moment, where economists in frankfurt are telling the greeks what economic policy to pursue. that is what we shall see in a few months' time in relation to spain and in relation to italy and a number of other countries. in this way, this report shows with all the desirable clarity why denmark - and in particular my party, the danish people's party - wants to stay out of the euro. we will decide for ourselves what economic policy is to be pursued. it is the danish voters and not the economists in frankfurt who must decide that question.
in writing. − i fully recognise and support the un objectives on nuclear disarmament, gender mainstreaming, poverty reduction, the mdgs, and the important role of the un in promoting human rights and combating climate change. i abstain because the report will prevent individual member states from expressing their views at the un, for example when they are more critical of dictatorships other than the eu. in addition, the report consistently links civilian and military instruments, which i cannot support.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the general priorities are supported, in particular the fight against youth unemployment and research, innovation and green technology. the danish social democrats also fully support the allocation of the necessary funds to the eu's growth and employment strategy, eu 2020. the danish social democrats stress, however, that the aim of the eu's common agricultural policy must always be to guarantee market stabilisation, and that permanent eu aid for milk and milk products, for example, cannot be supported.
for the edf group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. once upon a time, an airport was a place where you bought a plane ticket, dropped off your luggage, showed your passport, and flew off or arrived. today, an airport has become a kind of city with all kinds of facilities, but at the same time a pure fort knox with security measures that only point in one direction: there are more and more of them. yes, planes crashed in the old days, and unfortunately they still do. it is therefore important that the same rules apply both inside and outside the eu. in this context, the eu is too small to be an isolated island. here we see the benefit of having the same rules, the same transparent rules, for aircraft from all countries. this is also true in the field of taxation. everyone, passengers and airlines alike, should be aware of what an aviation safety levy covers. no one should get lost in a jungle of opaque fees and charges. passengers must know exactly what the charge covers. they should not be subject to national special charges or additional money for airlines. i wholeheartedly support the report by the committee on transport and tourism (the chairman withdrew the floor).
for the edf group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. but i have a few comments. more freight on the eu's major rivers fine, but how do we take into account that in recent years the water level has often been so low that fully loaded barges cannot sail? at half a ton, the cost of shipping goods becomes too high. risk-based control yes, how can you look at a coal barge smuggling people? risk-based control alone is not enough. it is naive to expect all the world's maritime nations to follow the eu's high environmental standards. on the contrary, many old ships from third countries will benefit economically from this. piracy why is the problem mentioned only in the context of africa? in the waters around indonesia, the problem is much greater. this also affects eu shipping companies. in all coastal waters, to avoid environmental disasters, dumping should be made compulsory by law. i also find it regrettable that we have closed so many smaller ports. we should focus on strengthening coastal shipping, not weakening it. one final point. there is much talk about the importance of the shipbuilding industry to the eu. but where is the debate on the responsible and environmentally sound scrapping of ships? or will we still send our aging ships to be irresponsibly scrapped on indian shores?
mr president, i would like to thank you. two urgent points: firstly, it is an inconvenient fact that europe is at a standstill and therefore not competitive on a world scale, but this also applies to american and asian airlines which cannot land in the eu! the second. thank you for the efforts of all parties involved. it is an open question whether financial compensation should be given to airlines or not. what that will be will be decided in the debates of the coming days. it is good to hear that a three-step plan is now in place. i'm glad to hear that. the financial times criticises politicians who have shut down everything for safety reasons and suggests that europe should adopt the us strategy of letting individual airlines decide for themselves whether to fly or not. i hope that we in this house will reject that model immediately. it would be a disaster for passengers if a bankrupt company decided to fly just for profit. we need a forward-looking strategy: better instruments in space to predict atmospheric changes, development of aircraft engines that use fuel much more efficiently and are less sensitive. but planes are vulnerable, not only to terrorist attacks, but also to extreme weather conditions. airplanes are highly energy-intensive and polluting. we will not be able to develop solar or electric aircraft for cargo or passenger flights, but we can finally get started on some high-speed trains and on direct high-speed rail routes between all the major cities of europe. trains can be made much more environmentally friendly than airplanes and can easily compete with airplanes on the intra-european routes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there have been many sensible things said in the debate this morning, but i just think that we have to look a little further ahead. because what we've experienced, we're going to experience again. the specialists in iceland say it is not a question of whether there will be more eruptions, it is only a question of when! so we need to start looking a little further ahead and figure out how we are going to deal with a similar situation in the future. and i think that we must now start to focus on high-speed trains between the european capitals and that we must do something about the interoperability that is needed.
for the edf group. mr president, europe and canada have enjoyed good cooperation for many years, and it is therefore natural that we should seek to increase free trade. but is the present method the best when the negotiations have taken so long? is the eu's apparatus too heavy and bureaucratic to cope with the task? canada wants a free trade agreement with the eu, but at the same time canada does not want to ban the cruel method of killing seals, which is completely against all animal welfare rules. canada also wants the right to tax maritime transport via an ice-free northwest passage. but a road north of america must be open to all. the northwest passage is ideal for saving time, money and fuel and for serving the environment. it strengthens the competitiveness of all countries in the northern hemisphere. i would therefore urge canada to follow the ideas of the free trade agreement and to drop all ideas of any taxation of the use of the high seas.
member of the commission. − as i have just said, in its own analysis the commission is taking into account not only the credit rating agencies but also its own analyses. the european commission is following events very closely in the public and in the banking sector in greece, so we come to our own conclusions and make proposals to the council on the basis of those conclusions. there is something else, of course, and that is the activity of the credit rating agencies. these are private companies, which are very influential with respect to the financial markets, but that of course is not the responsibility of the european commission.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are all very concerned about what can be done to remedy the problems of the financial crisis. i saw that you, commissioner, were in the media the other day and proposed that in future the member states should submit their proposals for financial legislation to the commission before the national parliaments debate and adopt the relevant proposals for financial legislation. and i would like you to elaborate on this, namely the fact that in future the commission will have the opportunity to deal with the financial laws of the member states before the national parliaments do. that sounds very interesting. i'd like to hear more about that.
member of the commission. − the honourable member seems to suggest that having an independent monetary policy in greece would be a way of alleviating the crisis affecting the country. this is not correct; the high interest rates from the greek government are not due to monetary policy factors but rather to high risk premiums related to market concerns about debt sustainability. ecb interest rates are at a historical low and the central european bank has been providing very ample liquidity to the euro-area financial system, including the greek institutions. of course, participation in the euro requires that economic adjustment of course via channels other than the exchange rate, as shown in many commission documents, for example the comprehensive 2008 report on emu@10. adjustment in the euro area has not been sufficiently smooth in the past. this is why the commission has highlighted the need to reinforce eu multilateral surveillance procedures based on intensified peer pressure to identify and tackle vulnerabilities in member states at an early stage. the commission is currently preparing proposals to this end, as i already mentioned in reply to a previous question.
there are plenty of different ways to regulate your currency, if you are independent. but the members of the euro are not, because they have deposited a large number of the instruments they used to have in frankfurt. it is not true that interest rates are not different within the euro area, because private medium and longterm interest rates vary widely, and the greek bond yield is much higher than, for example, the danish one, despite the fact that we have our own currency. but what i am looking for the commission to answer or to admit here is that if one does not want to face up to the fact that if greece had not been locked into the position that is being taken from frankfurt, greece would have devalued, and devaluation would have helped to alleviate a great deal of the problems that greece is in.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, this debate is about us as european parliamentarians taking responsibility not only collectively but also individually for the management of eu money in 2008. when the debate is over and the votes are taken in may, it is us the citizens who will have to answer. let me say this at once: our group is critical of the way the eu has managed taxpayers' money in 2008. of course, it's very good and doesn't deserve any criticism. in some areas, progress has even been made compared to 2007. but there are still too many areas where we have to say that this is not acceptable. for example, the commission's accounts. as regards the structural funds, the court of auditors concludes that at least and i repeat at least 11% of the funds have been paid out in breach of the rules. some are due to errors and omissions, others to fraud and deception. but that does not change the fact that billions of euros should not have been paid out in this area alone. is that acceptable? yes, we all know the excuses. the commission says that it is the fault of the member states, because they are responsible for the control. the member states say that the commission is to blame because the rules are too complicated. and so the shift of responsibility can continue. the question we have to ask ourselves is: would we approve the accounts of a sports club, a trade union or a political party where 11% of expenditure in a central area had been paid out in breach of the rules? i agree with those who say that fundamental structural changes are needed to change this situation. therefore, the clearance of accounts must be used to push through such changes. this pressure must also be brought to bear on the council. last april, parliament rejected by a large majority the council's 2007 accounts. we said that we could not take responsibility for an accounting to the electorate as long as the council did not formally want to meet with the relevant committees of parliament and publicly answer our questions. in november, however, we decided to approve the council's accounts as a sign of goodwill. but on the clear assumption, on the clear assumption that there were changes this year. today we must say that these changes have not taken place. a concrete example: year after year the council moves millions of euros from the translation account to the travel account. so it's in addition to the travel account that's already there. the question therefore is: why is it being done? what is all this travel money used for? and what countries benefit from it? informally, off the record, the council will be happy to respond. but until today (and it may be changing) the council has refused to respond openly and publicly. and that's just not good enough. we therefore believe that the approval of the council's accounts must await an interinstitutional agreement which clearly states the council's commitment to transparency and cooperation with parliament. our criticism of the council and the commission is clear. we share it with many colleagues from other political groups. but precisely because our criticism is so clear, we also have an obligation to be critical of ourselves when it comes to our own (parliament's) financial management. we therefore regret that the report by the committee on budgetary control ended up being less critical than it originally was from the rapporteur's point of view. that is why we also support the reintroduction of the critical passages. and i hope that the vote in may will give wide support to the fact that it is precisely our willingness to criticise ourselves that gives our criticism and our demands to the council and the commission even more force and authority. in conclusion, i would just like to thank all my colleagues on the committee on budgetary control, who have again this year made an effort to ensure greater transparency and accountability in the way the eu handles citizens' money.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to speak today about parliament's discharge report. we are dealing with what i believe is the most thorough, critical and forward-looking ep discharge report ever. and that's good. i would therefore like to thank mr staes for his constructive work. it is unusual for an institution to grant itself discharge, and this requires a high degree of accountability, transparency and control. but the report actually helps to ensure that we as a parliament can take on that responsibility and show openness and ensure better control. so, of course, that's a good thing. but that said, there is still room for improvement. i would simply like to mention some of the points which i think are taken into account in some of the amendments. i think we need to do more to give citizens the opportunity to follow our work. we can ensure this by making our reports more easily accessible to citizens on the website, including those that are critical of them. i also think it is important that we look at how our tendering procedures work here in parliament. it is a high-risk area and there are good amendments here too. i also think we should look at whether the management structure can be improved and made even more transparent both for us parliamentarians and for the citizens, so that they can help to control parliament. i also think it is quite banal that we should not spend money on the rebuilding of our office facilities here in strasbourg. instead, we should make sure that we have only one seat. i come from a country, denmark, where we have a long tradition of transparency, openness and control, particularly as regards the use of taxpayers' money. these are values which i hold dear and which i believe should also permeate the eu more deeply. i think that the discharge report for the european parliament shows that we in this parliament are taking this on board and are taking a step in the right direction. it also allows us to criticise the other institutions more effectively.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have not voted for this proposal because, firstly, they believe that it is unnecessary legislation, since the necessary legislation already exists in this area. and secondly, because they believe that it is not the role of the eu to impose on the states to pay any additional costs for airport security. this question of financing security expenditure should be left to the individual member states.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. we support an ambitious animal welfare policy that strengthens animal welfare considerations in accordance with article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union where appropriate in the form of positive incentive structures. we do not, however, support the automatic allocation of new funds to the european agricultural sector as a result of economic losses linked to animal welfare.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's own-initiative report on the evaluation and analysis of the action plan for animal protection and welfare (the paulsen report) because i fully support the objective of strengthening animal welfare in the eu. the report is, however, unclear as to whether the eu should make maximum harmonisation in this area. i cannot in any case support a future proposal which prevents member states from making better binding standards for animal welfare than those which can be agreed at eu level. on the contrary, i believe that it is essential for the further fight for better animal welfare that the member states are able to take the lead in this area.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the commission to take action to combat climate change. we support an ambitious agricultural policy that equips the european agricultural sector to withstand climate change, but we do not support the allocation of new money to the european agricultural policy.
in writing. − the european parliament has voted on the discharge for its own accounts for 2008. never before has there been such a deep and critical approach. it is a clear victory for both transparency and control and is in line with the traditional danish concept of good practice. the discharge report contains a number of critical points where the current procedures and approaches need to be tightened up. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. we naturally support this, and so s has voted for the discharge and the resolution as a whole. the european parliament must give itself discharge every year, and that is precisely why a critical review is needed. the report, of course, expresses a number of compromises, but it is fundamentally very critical and at the same time points in the right direction with regard to future discharge procedures. there has also been a great deal of support for the critical report across many groups in this parliament.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, we disagree on many things about the eu. we also disagree on many points about the european parliament. but i think there is a broad consensus that what gives the european parliament its legitimacy is that it is democratically and directly elected by the citizens. so here we are today with a proposal to actually accept that it can be changed. there is a proposal that could put us in a position where for the next four years things can be decided in this parliament by people who are not democratically elected but by people who are appointed. i think that's a very bad development. i think that's a very unfortunate development. it is obviously contrary to the treaty. that is why the treaty must be revised. but it is also against the practice. were romania and bulgaria told when they joined in 2007 that they did not need to hold elections? that the members of these countries could serve for two and a half years without an election being held? no, they were ordered to hold elections. the same applies to new members. even if the elections are to be held in one country only, namely france.
for the edf group. mr president, there is something bizarre about the situation we are in at the moment. for years we have heard how the lisbon treaty was to be the instrument that ensured democracy, transparency and citizen participation in eu legislation. and then one of the first things that the european parliament chooses to do, after having told the citizens this for years, is to say no to direct elections, to say no to using a convention and to say no to all the instruments that have been used in the past to convince the citizens of why this treaty was necessary. there's something weird about that. the natural thing would be to take seriously the promises made to the electorate. that this house be taken seriously by people with a direct mandate from the people. that it is taken seriously that it is not governments but elected representatives who amend the treaties. both these basic elements and, moreover, basic promises will be broken if the two reports are adopted. the whole idea, indeed the whole argument for the lisbon treaty - all that was to convince citizens of the need to give even more power to the eu - is being turned away today, when it has been given its will. i therefore have to say as a former rapporteur that my group cannot support these reports either.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to start by saying that the work on this 2020 strategy is very important because there is a need for some serious reflection on what we will be living on in europe in the future. we need to think seriously about what the 23 million unemployed europeans are going to do in the future. but overall, as the green group, we lack some concrete objectives in a number of important areas which should make the social europe project a top priority for the next ten years. firstly, we lack a clear objective to reduce youth unemployment, which is alarmingly high in all member states. the first step could be to introduce a european youth guarantee to give young people a foothold in the labour market. secondly, we must ensure that there are concrete targets for the fight against poverty. i think it is a disgrace if the member states of europe in the richest region of the world cannot agree on concrete targets for reducing poverty. some people say they don't like the definition. to them i say, let not the technicalities get in the way. there are others who say that we have no treaty basis. i would say to them: we have a new treaty of lisbon. thirdly, we must work consistently with a binding employment plan. green investment for new jobs. re-educate and train our workforce to enter these jobs. lastly, eu leaders must ensure that the development of a social europe, where employment and social security have the same level of ambition and where not only the quantity but also the quality of the jobs created is in focus, is an independent objective. the eu 2020 does not yet deliver on these parameters, so we still have work to do.
for the edf group. mr president, cancer is a public disease which, thanks to intensive research, we are beginning to know a great deal about. we now know that a person may be genetically predisposed to cancer and that at least one enzyme is involved in the disease. stress, lifestyle, chemicals, and viruses can also cause cancer. this year, nearly two million europeans are expected to die of this disease. so the cancer doesn't stop at national borders. it is therefore welcome that the commission has taken the initiative of an ambitious plan on cancer at european level. i have two questions: how does the commission view research? can the allocated funding ensure effective research and how high is the priority? the commission points out that the productivity of screening is low in relation to the council recommendation, so my second question is: how is the ambitious target being translated into real patients in our countries? and can we realistically double our screening efficiency across europe?
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to be able to do that. this directive on equal treatment for men and women in selfemployment is of vital importance. it ensures that millions of european women who are selfemployed, entrepreneurs or assistant wives have social conditions comparable to those of women workers. the most important and central element of the directive is the right to a minimum of 14 weeks of maternity leave. the need to ensure better conditions for women entrepreneurs is clear from the relatively low number of women who are becoming entrepreneurs today. in the eu, only 8% of the female workforce are entrepreneurs, compared with 16% of the male workforce. we need to motivate more women to become entrepreneurs, and here the directive is a good step along the way. many women have the desire but lack the courage to become entrepreneurs because of insecure social conditions. in my view, this directive should be seen in the context of the important work on a general maternity directive which is being done in the committee on equal opportunities. ensuring the right to maternity for all european women without diminishing their position in the labour market is a cornerstone of european equality. if we in the eu are to achieve our goal of ensuring welfare, we must give european women good opportunities for maternity leave. if we in the eu are to achieve our goal of ensuring prosperity, we must also have increased the birth rate. i hope that this directive will be just the first of two steps. now that we have secured the right to maternity leave for all european women, the next step must be to give maternity leave to fathers, so that we can ensure real equality.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i would also like to begin by thanking mr manders and his colleagues for their very constructive cooperation on this proposal. this textile regulation is both a necessary and a good proposal. it makes a lot of sense to harmonize the rules on how we approve new fibres for the internal market. that is why the social democrats support the motion as a whole. but we also feel that a proposal should not be for the benefit of one side only. it's not just for the industry. it is also very important for us to focus on what is good for the consumer. that is why it has been essential for us in the work on this proposal to ensure that consumers are given clear and unambiguous information about the fibres and textiles they go out and buy. that is why we wanted it to contain a 100% fibre composition table of contents. but that's not all. we also support, of course - and we have also been a proponent of this - the need to carry out a study of how we label textiles in general in the eu. i think it is quite crucial for consumers to know the contents of what they are buying, where the clothes are produced, whether they contain substances that can cause allergies or whatever. i think that many of these things - including the conditions of production - are quite crucial and will be increasingly so for consumers in the future. that is why it was important for us to say that we think it is important to look into how we can get proper labelling of textiles for the benefit of consumers. that is also one of the reasons why we have supported this proposal so strongly. and then, by the way, i personally think it is also quite crucial that we look more closely at clothing sizes. i think it would create more trade in the internal market if one could be sure that the sizes of clothing indicated are the same no matter which country one buys the clothing in. we social democrats support the proposal and support it very much and believe that it can be beneficial both for industry and, not least, for consumers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the textile industry is in a state of rapid development. new fibres and substances are entering the market and consumers are finding it difficult to see what they are buying. unfortunately, a large proportion of the goods are produced in countries without any kind of product control. for decades we have informed consumers about the contents of food and medicine, but not about the contents of the clothes we wear. so in these nano-times it is good that the subject is being brought into focus, and i agree with both the commission and the rapporteur that uniform labelling of clothing and shoe sizes is required. the internet opens up new possibilities for both dealers and buyers to obtain information on a given product via an identification number. but it is particularly important to inform consumers about allergenic and dangerous substances. care tips, country of manufacture, flammability and the use of chemicals in manufacturing are also important. however, in the everyday use of products, the use of language-related symbols is particularly important to the consumer.
i have to say, madam president, a year ago we were all members of the european parliament campaigning for our seats, and i know that in many countries the question of schengen played an extremely important role in the election campaign. there is massive dissatisfaction among our voters, among the citizens of europe, with the way the eu is handling these issues - the lack of internal border controls, the deeply deficient external border controls, the completely inadequate controls on immigration and the specter that is looming in a little over a year's time as to whether the commission will approve bulgaria and romania to join schengen too. i hear that we should be in solidarity, but who, frankly, should we be in solidarity with? who is to show solidarity? when we see massive exploitation of the system created by both the eu and our member states, perhaps it is time we also showed a little solidarity with the citizens who are living under the misguided policies pursued by the commission and its member states.
i have to say, madam president, i would just like to say that i voted against the parts of the report which deal with the 'made in' system because i do not think it is justified that the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. i think there is a tendency towards protectionism, and i find it difficult to vote in favour of that. so that's why i voted against those parts.
for the edf group. i hope that none of us here will ever need this directive! 27 eu countries equals 27 different regulatory frameworks plus illegally detained persons from countries outside the union who, in their poverty, are willing to donate a kidney for very little money. unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a number of examples of fraud, which have affected both the patient and the donor. we therefore need coordination and coordination at eu level, and of course both the recipient and the donor must be protected in the best possible way. in a few eu countries, you are a born donor, while in most countries you can donate only by active personal decision. so we are faced with 27 different legislative and insurance systems, which do not exactly promote the possibilities of cooperation. it is a very complicated subject that we are discussing here, because we also have to ensure that the quality of organs is at the top. it is important that we take up illegal donation for health reasons alone, since we often do not know the donor and therefore not his state of health. we don't want to end up with kidneys and hearts and so forth coming from donors with communicable diseases, infectious diseases, leukemia and worse. therefore, it is necessary to screen the organs concerned before use. we must be sure that the interventions are carried out safely, that is to say that the operation itself is carried out by professionally trained staff and that the follow-up is carried out at the highest level.
for the edf group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i can easily see the benefits of the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights. it is an advantage for those people who have been employed in the eu and are being fired because they will not sign false accounts and have been 'whistle blowers'. they may bring such a case before the european court of human rights under article 6. it is an advantage for colleagues who here in parliament are sentenced to hefty fines for expressing their free opinion and have no possibility of appealing it anywhere. such an action may be brought before strasbourg under article 10. so i can see the benefits. if my group and i are opposed to the eu's accession to the convention on human rights, it is because the disadvantages clearly outweigh the benefits. there is no doubt that the court of justice in luxembourg in particular will use accession to extend the eu's powers once again. in an increasing number of areas - social affairs, immigration policy and fundamental freedoms - we shall see how accession to the convention on human rights can be used as another argument for the eu to decide more, and this means that the member states must decide less. that the member states should not be allowed to determine their own foreign policy, questions of their liberties, freedom of expression and everything else that comes under the convention. we don't want that. it must remain a national matter and therefore the eu should not go down this road.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to spend a little time talking about the social and employment aspects of europe 2020 and the commission's work in this area. it is no secret that the greens would like to see a much more ambitious 2020 plan than what is on the table now, with a genuine will to define what europe will live on in the future, and with a will to set high social and employment targets. but right now we are in a situation where the member states are not going to develop the plan that the commission has come up with, but are, on the contrary, backing down. firstly, the fight against poverty. several member states have cast doubt on the eu's competence to combat poverty and set concrete poverty targets. it is enough to say that there are several places in the new lisbon treaty where this is justified, including article 3 of the eu treaty and articles 9 and 153 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it's just getting started! secondly, other member states, including my own, denmark, have criticised the definition of poverty. and yes, of course we have to find a good definition. but these arguments cannot hide the fact that this is about one thing: whether we want to combat poverty in europe effectively. that's the real discussion. do we want to reduce the number of poor people in europe, which is currently 84 million? do we want to reduce the number of working poor, which is up to 17 million? and we want not just employment for all, but also decent and good employment? do we want young people to enter the labour market? yes, of course we do, and that is precisely why we need specific objectives in the social and employment fields. europe is in an economic crisis at the moment, but this must not cause us to become mentally paralysed and afraid to set ambitious goals in these areas. if we do not dare to do so now, it will undermine the economic situation in europe and social cohesion. so, colleagues and commissioners, i am pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce this directive. i would say to you that the political will is what is decisive. i hope that parliament and the commission will help to take the lead and push those member states who are hesitant to commit themselves to a social europe by 2020. i hope you are ready for that as commissioners.
mr president, i would like to thank you. look, we had the intention of becoming "the most competitive and knowledge-based economy in the world". that's not how it happened. the challenges facing europe in the years ahead are enormous. the problems we are seeing in greece today and perhaps in a number of other countries before too long, are rooted in two things: they are based on the lack of competitiveness in europe, and they are based on the fact that europeans have lived beyond their means, that is to say, that they have spent more money than they have earned and have spent more money than they produce. many economists would like to make economics more difficult than it is, but the explanation is simple: the market has simply lost faith that the indebted countries of europe can compete and answer to anyone - that's why. europe's biggest problem, as i said, is its lack of competitiveness, and that is the problem that the 2020 strategy is intended to tackle. we must increase our competitiveness in relation to other countries and the national states must put their economies in order, while at the same time investing in the future. yes, there may be a need to cut what we call welfare benefits, to spend the money on education and on research. smes are the backbone of europe's economy. that is why the smes must be taken seriously in this strategy. they're short of capital, and they're having trouble borrowing money. we have to put an end to that. many smes are excluded from public procurement, both in the national states and also, especially, when it comes to eu procurement, with priority given to large companies. finally, i would say that administrative burdens are also something we have to contend with all the time. the administrative rules we are making are a greater burden for small businesses with very few employees. finally, we must help small and mediumsized enterprises to enter export markets.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are losing thousands of jobs in europe every day, and here the 2020 strategy should be the eu's answer to the challenges of the future, and to how to maintain and strengthen competitiveness so that we can create growth and more jobs. we have to choose which way to go whether we want to compete on low wages and poor working conditions or whether we want to compete on knowledge and skills, green quality jobs and decent labour market conditions. here it is a little worrying to see the commission's unilateral focus on flexibility in the flexicurity model. it's not gonna help. people need to be safe and secure to be resilient. there must be a welfare system to support you if you lose your job. there must be provision for continuing training so that people can move around the labour market to the job opportunities that should preferably be there. this requires investment in the member states, but it is investment that pays off in the long term. the commission must do more about social dumping. when you travel from one country to another for work, you have to work under the conditions of the country you are coming to. the commission must ensure that everyone is covered by the rules on migrant labour, that everyone is covered by the rules applicable at eu level and that the rules of the internal market must not override the rules in relation to workers' rights.
the alde group is not in favour of this. madam president, i thank the various rapporteurs for their good cooperation. as alde's shadow rapporteur on this subject, i am very pleased with the report. we have managed to agree on a report with recommendations for improving cooperation between universities and industry - a report which, above all, contains very concrete initiatives for the modernisation of universities. europe's universities are, as is well known, lagging behind the world elite, which also has major implications for european competitiveness. it is therefore not surprising that education, research and innovation have been given high priority in both the commission's work programme and the 2020 strategy. i hope, of course, that there will be a majority for this political priority to be followed up by increased funding. we are now in a situation where we have to think beyond the conventional framework of our education system, and we can start by breaking down the wall between universities and those who benefit from the output of universities, namely business. we are particularly concerned with two things, and i should like to say a few words about them. first, i would mention the modernisation of the curriculum. it is important that there be an increased focus on interdisciplinarity and the development of the skills that are actually in demand by business. university education should reflect more closely the needs of the labour market and be adapted accordingly, including in the form of more vocationally relevant curricula, which the business community should in turn actively contribute to modernising. secondly, i would mention mobility. it is important that the gap between universities and industry be narrowed and that there be people who build bridges between universities and industry. the practical experience is a good example of how university students acquire practical experience and subsequently bring this experience into their studies. at the same time, students are better prepared to enter the labour market after their studies. the practical training should of course be supported and promoted in europe. research can also serve as a bridge between universities and industry. i have mentioned before one such wholly private endeavour which i have had, namely the danish professional doctorate scheme, whereby an employee of a company in denmark can acquire a doctorate at a danish university with public funding. i actually held a debate evening in brussels on 3 february 2010 in the parliament with a wide participation from both business and academia, and the position on that evening was quite clear: an eu business phd scheme will be a very useful tool to promote specialised business-relevant research and to promote the competitiveness of european business, thereby creating more jobs and economic growth. so a completely unambiguous support from both sides. in addition, it is a highly effective method of bringing professional experience and practical knowledge into universities, thus making teaching more focused on skills and knowledge relevant to labour market demand. the scheme could be integrated into the existing marie curie programme, possibly under the industrial academic partnership programme, and will help to strengthen the pursuit of the objectives of the bologna process. i am glad that we can adopt a report tomorrow which recommends the establishment of just such a system.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first, on behalf of mr lewandowski, ask you to please accept his apologies for not being present. he is unfortunately constrained by the annual meeting of the commission with the court of auditors where he takes an active part in presenting the recently adopted triennial revision of the financial regulation; so he simply had to be there today. i therefore replace him and i will of course transmit to him the comments which you express in this first debate on the commission’s presented draft budget and the forthcoming trilogue which precedes council’s reading. our dialogue this year will go well beyond the 2011 budget, as important political initiatives with far-reaching budgetary consequences are being discussed. but let us not forget that one of the major components for this year is the implementation of the lisbon treaty in budgetary matters. we need to keep our commitment to ensure good collaboration between the institutions – as good as it has been in the past – within this new institutional framework. this is vital to achieving a successful and timely outcome to the 2011 budgetary procedure. let me then stress that i do take thorough note of your concerns and can assure you that the commission shares the view that there is a need for a targeted quota of spending which is becoming even more important in a restrained context. the commission has presented a draft budget which respects the financial framework and is based on sound estimates. it is important to recall that the draft budget for 2011 has been drawn up in a context of tight expenditure ceilings and national finances under severe pressure. against such a difficult background, the commission has proposed a draft budget which responds to the political requirements with a justified and reasoned increase. yes, in the current difficult economic situation the recovery effort will have to be pursued, and the rapporteur is right also in placing this, as we have just heard and as i can see from the document, at the heart of social inclusion strategies. its innovative abilities are a key resource for the development and growth of the european union. i would like to make a call on this house to support our proposal and particularly the increase in payment appropriations, since it constitutes a tangible contribution to delivering implementation on the ground and to supporting european economies. as spending programmes reach cruising speed, increased payment levels for activities under the heading competitiveness for growth and employment, that is +6.8%, and cohesion for growth and employment, which is +16.9%, prove that these policies are implemented vigorously to accelerate the recovery process. good budgetary implementation remains also essential and in particular the implementation of the structural and cohesion funds. let me reiterate that the commission remains committed to maintaining administrative efficiency and, in line with previous commitments, the commission will not request any new posts. it wants to underline that such commitment goes beyond the establishment plan and also applies to external personnel, for which the commission is even proposing a reduction. every year the commission provides full information on administrative expenditure; it is ready to discuss with the budgetary authority any alternative presentation to ensure transparency on this expenditure. let me finish by thanking the rapporteur for making available at such an early stage an indicative list of new pilot projects and preparatory actions ahead of parliament’s reading. this will help our dialogue and ultimately allow for the best implementation of projects which will be adopted at the final stage. i am confident that at the forthcoming trilogue we will have the opportunity to advance in a constructive way, as in previous years. the commission will continue to do its utmost to help to pave the way for a successful outcome to this budget procedure.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. − mr president, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, i would like to highlight the need for financial resources to be available to combat all forms of discrimination against women, in particular inequalities regarding the pay gap. i also stress the importance of appropriate funding for the european institute for gender equality in lithuania, and would like to highlight the need to set up the necessary funds to establish a european observatory on violence against women, building on existing institutional structures, as was agreed by the council on 8 march 2010. finally, we would also urge the commission to urge the member states to make greater use of the structural funds, within the framework of the european social fund, as a way of promoting equality between men and women.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would also like to thank mrs jędrzejewska for her strict management of this text, which has given a clear message that we can negotiate with. it is true what she says: the multiannual framework for the eu budget is now so tight that it will be more than difficult to deliver on a number of promises. it can be said that in previous years we have been able to find free money in the agricultural budget, but there is just not that much free money any more. we must be able to follow up the 2020 growth strategy, we must be able to invest in joint energy projects, we must be able to invest in joint transport projects, we must be able to invest in young people and research, and we must be able to finance a strong and joint foreign service. and then i very much agree with commissioner hedegaard that we must ensure that there is sufficient payment to the structural funds so that we can fulfil the commitments to the new member states. there is a serious need for the promised mid-term review of the budget so that we can have clarity on how to finance new needs. strangely enough, we are now seeing more and more examples of member states wanting to pay. they just don't want to pay through the eu budget! we see this for example with the creation of the three new financial supervisors to safeguard against future financial crises in the eu. they are both paid for directly by the member states and by the eu budget. if the entire expenditure were to be charged to the eu budget, the multiannual framework would be blown up! but of course it is much more bureaucratic and difficult to collect money directly from the member states, and this gives us less overview and less control and follow-up. this is a very bad development. should we not then save the eu budget? of course, we must also be frugal in times of crisis, but i would just say that if all the member states had pursued their budgetary policies in the same way as the eu budget, there would have been no deficits and no debt problems. here we have ceilings and tight frames! there's no chance of any trouble. so perhaps it is the national authorities who should learn from the eu and think about whether there is something here that could be used at national level as well.
for the edf group. i am a big supporter of rail freight transport. the current european rail network needs to be improved and coordinated, with due regard for both the congested road network and the environment. many eu member states have neglected to maintain their rail networks for years in favour of road freight transport. and now we're paying the price! it is high time that we gave political priority to rail transport. we need action and a new approach to rail transport in europe in general. but - for there is a but - the railway is not a magic or problem-free solution. the railway has its achilles heel: the cargo is brought from the production site to the track by truck, then driven by train to a station near the end consumer, then brought back on a truck for the final leg. it automatically degrades the product, prolongs transport time and increases the administrative burden. so unless we want to put all our industrial production right next to a railway, these disadvantages come with it. we must look at the national situation in each country and see how it can be improved and coordinated. we must look at how we can work together instead of dragging down harmonization on the states. our countries and rail systems are very different and we have to respect and work from that.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank president buzek for mentioning the situation in iran in his opening remarks. he called it "worrying". i think that's a diplomatic understatement to say the least. the situation in iran is catastrophic! democracy fighters are imprisoned and tortured, trade unions are suppressed, religious minorities such as the baha'is are imprisoned for years on absurd charges and there are new executions every day. many of them are even conducted in public to intimidate the opposition and any criticism of the government. but the president did not mention that parliament had been visited by the iranian foreign minister since the last partsession. i would therefore ask the bureau to discuss how we deal with official visits by representatives of the murderous regime in iran.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the matter we are discussing today is a very fundamental one: will we in the european parliament ensure a social europe with fair competition and decent working conditions? or will we let chance and the market rule in an increasingly tight transport industry? for us greens and for the employment committee in this parliament there is no doubt. we want selfemployed drivers to be included in the working time directive. we therefore reject the commission's proposal to exclude the selfemployed for the following three reasons: firstly, selfemployed people must be covered by the working time rules if we are to ensure the safety of europe's roads. with a tonne-tonne truck behind it, it is therefore vital to set a ceiling on working hours to avoid fatigued drivers and accidents. secondly, we will ensure fair competition in the transport sector. in recent years we have seen a huge increase in the number of fake self-employed. it's been the industry's answer to avoid working hours. we as legislators must not create incentives for more selfemployed people to come to europe. on the contrary, we must ensure that there are uniform rules, so that there is a level playing field. thirdly, we will ensure a good working environment for all. we know from eu surveys that self-employed drivers are more sick and more stressed than drivers who are salaried. is it safe and health-conscious? we don't think it is. a lot has been said about this directive and a lot of the wrong things have been said. i'd like to dispel two myths. first, there is the myth of administrative work. so office work is not part of the regulation, and that is very important to note. we must bury that myth. secondly, there is the myth of enforcement. i have heard from colleagues that it would not be possible to enforce this directive, and to them i would just say: we have a digital tachograph that can measure it. it does so today for employees, so of course it can do so for the selfemployed. finally, i would like to say a few words to mrs bauer. as rapporteur for the green group, i have been very disappointed with the process that has been going on lately. mrs bauer has broken all the good rules of negotiation, she has broken the house's 'code of conduct', and now she comes up with what she calls a compromise. for me it is her responsibility - it is not a compromise for parliament. it is her own dirty proposal, which she has made with the council without any rules. i would like to conclude by saying that this is not about mrs bauer's negotiating methods - it is about people, and it is about whether we want to ensure proper conditions in a more pressured transport industry. i hope that everyone in this house will support this when we vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. − madam president, as i have said on previous occasions our aim is to ensure that consumers know what they are buying and what they are eating, thus making it easier to choose a diet for themselves and their families in tune with their needs, their wishes and their goals; citizens – consumers – have a right to the right information. i would appeal to honourable members to keep this firmly in mind throughout the debate. before turning to the substance of the proposal, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, ms sommer, for preparing the report, and also the shadow rapporteurs. whilst being sympathetic to most of her statements, i cannot say i agree with all of them. i should also mention the input from other committees, imco and agri. allow me to briefly highlight the most important issues covered by the proposed amendments. the question of mandatory origin labelling is very important and needs careful assessment. indeed, there is a recurrent demand for the mandatory provisions of such information for some foods. the commission could partially accept the proposed amendment for an extension of the cases of mandatory origin labelling. origin labelling for basic primary foodstuffs which have not undergone substantial processing and are generally considered as single ingredient products could be a pragmatic option. however, given the complexity of the matter, the application of any mandatory labelling should be subject to the entry into force of delegated measures and be based on impact assessments. legibility is a major issue and one of the main complaints that consumers make. this is a key demonstration that we are putting consumers first in our debate and i hope that honourable members can support the idea of a minimum font size. it is thus regrettable that the amendments tabled would undermine the aim of having measurable criteria as a basis for enforcement. i share the concerns of honourable members about imitation foods. i am therefore happy to see parliament table an amendment containing a provision to explicitly prohibit such misleading practices. however, the introduction of a definition and specific designation of such products would provoke legal problems, and we therefore need to find those designations which give correct and unambiguous information to the consumer. i am also pleased to note the broad support for mandatory front-of-pack nutrition labelling and the endorsement of voluntary schemes by member states. the principle that consumers should know what they eat should apply not only to pre-packed foods but also to food that they buy over the counter or when they eat out. i am therefore not in favour of amendments which would limit the scope of the draft regulation. that said, i am open to changing the text on non-prepacked food so that allergen information alone would be mandatory, while member states could decide on further mandatory requirements for such food. turning to the suggestion for mandatory labelling of nano-ingredients, i am pleased to accept the amendment in principle, although there needs to be a suitable definition. finally, on the issue of nutrient profiles let me state that i cannot accept the amendments to delete or modify article 4 in the proposed way as this provision would undermine the existing regulation on food claims. we are all aware that many claims are misleading for consumers; some because they are not substantiated, others because they do not give the full picture of the food in question, claiming only their positive aspects. it must also be stated that claims are made on the sole initiative of the manufacturer for the purpose of selling more products. we are not imposing nutrient profiles on anyone. we are insisting on nutrient profiles where manufacturers choose to market their products through claims, so that consumers can have balanced food information. the establishment of nutrient profiles does not prohibit or in any way limit the food products that manufacturers can produce. food manufacturers can continue to produce whichever way they want to. however, it is unfair to our consumers and citizens to allow claims that may mislead them. it is, for me, a question of providing our citizens with honest and full information about the products which they are consuming. let us not forget that the claims regulation was adopted following in-depth debate amongst the institutions. the core principles of the regulation remain valid and relevant. having said this, i am looking into the establishment of nutrient profiles with an open mind and i am ready to consider positively certain exemptions as they relate to traditional and basic products with an important dietary role. on this basis i urge you to support the commission’s endeavours to ensure that we have a meaningful basis to protect consumers and foster innovation in the food sector. thank you for your attention. i now look forward to an interesting debate and hearing your views.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection . - madam president, i have to speak. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has delivered an opinion on mrs sommer's report on food labelling. in the work of imco, it has been crucial for us to ensure that consumers are given proper tools to make healthy and correct choices when it comes to food. so we in the committee agree that misleading consumers in the labelling of foodstuffs is completely unacceptable. we also agree that consumers should be given a clear and unambiguous message through good labelling. we also agree, of course, that the rules must enable the internal market to function as well as possible. so we agree on the basic principles. but when it comes to the concrete question of how to do this, we have not been able to agree very much in imco, and we have also been able to see the same disagreement in envi. it shows how difficult this case is. i would therefore first of all ask the rapporteur to bear in mind that this food information is primarily intended as a consumer tool and not as a marketing tool for businesses.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european consumer is me and i want to know what i am putting in my mouth. in my country, i can read where the salad, the meat and the cheese come from. the consumer has a right to a transparent overview of the composition of the food we buy, without being a trained chemist or clinical dietitian. we welcome the fact that the 100 gram and 100 millilitre declarations should appear on the front of the packaging, as statistics show that this is the information the consumer is looking for. we must not confuse the consumer with too many labelling schemes, nor destroy regional diversity in food areas by imposing detailed labelling on non-packaged food. nor should it put obstacles in the way of the many small and mediumsized enterprises which make up the food industry. it will cost thousands of jobs throughout europe, and we cannot afford that.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i would like to start by reminding the council that it was the council that came up with the idea of having this mid-term review. it was the council that asked us to look at the possibility of using the money differently, in the middle of the period, and to see if we could have an audit of the funds. the council now says: 'we prefer not to talk about it.' the ball is in the commission's court. and the commission says: well, we have looked at what is in terms of resources and what is in terms of flexibility. and i thank you, mr lewandowski, because we have received an excellent report showing that there is virtually no flexibility. so we actually need to get together and look at what the options are. not just what's in the flexibility, but are there any programs that don't work? are there any savings? i think that is what the council was thinking too. is there any way to re-prioritize? we're not just thinking about spending more money, we're also thinking about maybe spending the money better. that could be an option. why don't we just have a little debate? the problems are not necessarily solved by not talking about them. it might be a good idea to take up this debate. i have been wondering about the willingness of the member states to contribute outside the eu budget in recent times. i was visiting vigo at the fisheries agency. there they have chartered a boat for fisheries control, and it is very necessary. the member states are willing to pay this out of the budget. it is a bureaucratic task, i must say, for such a small agency to collect money from 27 member states. so, this is not the way to go. we need to get our heads out of the gutter. we need to have an honest debate on this issue and look at how we can solve the problems.
vice-president of the commission. − it is very clear that in the area of social policy the member states are responsible for organising their own social protection systems, including the design, financing and quality control of services provided in long-term care institutions. we cannot intervene or force a government to change its policy. we can only take general measures to push a government into caring for its population. one of the things we can of course do with the social fund is to train the staff and help have better care for those people, but the basis decision on whether or not to have a foster house lies with the national governments.
member of the commission. − mr davies, your question raises the important issue of the effectiveness of european union diplomacy in international environmental negotiations, against the background of the disappointing results of the meetings in copenhagen on climate change and in doha on trade in endangered species. we obviously need to learn a number of lessons from these experiences, against the background of the relevant provisions in the lisbon treaty. having said that, in order to draw a balanced set of conclusions for the future, i think we must recognise that the reasons for the outcomes of these meetings are manifold and need to be analysed on a case-by-case basis. it is, obviously, not an easy task to agree on a common position among 27 member states, representing 500 million citizens, for international negotiations on complex issues that have a direct impact on the economy and society of the european union. nonetheless, both for the cites and the climate change negotiations, this did not prevent the eu from agreeing on a common line and carrying out a range of outreach activities towards its international partners. for the cites conference of parties, the eu position on many issues had been established more than six months before the meeting, outreach activities have been undertaken by eu and member state delegations all around the world on important eu proposals on sharks and tigers, and internal eu discussions before and during the cop on those topics ran smoothly. but i fully recognise that, in the case of bluefin tuna, these conditions were, unfortunately, not met to the same extent. on a more general note, the commission considers that the eu will be able to act more effectively within cites once it is a full party. the commission will, therefore, step up its efforts to convince third countries, which have not yet done so, to ratify the gaborone amendment to cites, which allows the eu to join the convention. with respect to the climate change negotiations, the eu’s internal debate in the context of copenhagen was not excessive and the eu has significantly improved the coordination of its diplomatic sources across the world. the eu had an intensive outreach schedule to third countries in the run-up to copenhagen and prepared and presented a common position across all key issues during the copenhagen meeting. in the run-up to copenhagen, the eu used multiple coordinated eu troika demarches in more than 40 countries, effected a range of joint troika outreach missions, as well as attending various bilateral and multilateral informal dialogues. its technical negotiating teams discussed and further developed eu positions during various bilateral visits to third countries. looking beyond the examples of the copenhagen and doha meetings, it is important to see that one of the key objectives of the lisbon treaty is to strengthen the union’s voice in the world. the implementation of the lisbon treaty will notably reinforce the eu external representation in international environmental affairs. in this field, the treaty tasks the commission with ensuring the union’s external representation. in case the council considers it politically opportune that the union engages in negotiations on international agreements, the treaty obliges the council to authorise the commission to conduct such negotiations on behalf of the union for matters falling under union competence. the council may complement such authorisation by negotiating directives. the european parliament shall, of course, be immediately and fully involved at all stages of the procedure. the commission is currently discussing with member states in the council how to implement this framework. in those discussions, the commission is very vigilant that the implementation of the lisbon treaty effectively results in reinforcing the unity and the coherence of eu representation in multilateral negotiations. any other interpretation of the lisbon treaty simply risks and, in fact, weakens the eu’s standing on the international arena, which is certainly not what the lisbon treaty was meant to bring about. what is at stake is the future of the eu organisation and efficiency in global environment negotiations, and the commission counts on the support of parliament on this issue.
member of the commission. − in answer to the specific question you asked: i have not had a meeting with catherine ashton on that issue. i think one thing is pretty clear as regards cites, especially on the blue fin tuna, we have made a series of miscalculations – if i can put it that way. firstly, the position of the commission was simply adopted too late. secondly, i believe the discussion in the council was held at the very last coreper; and, even if i could discuss this issue with catherine, it would still be too late. therefore, i think we should learn from these experiences. but, as you rightly pointed out, this is one of the tasks which we will have to do together, and we have to also use our future – hopefully well-functioning – external service for that purpose.
member of the commission. − the commission is aware of a number of studies concerning the combined effects of different chemicals. in particular, at the end of 2009, the danish authorities published the results from a number of studies that examined the cumulative impact of different endocrine-disrupting substances on sensitive groups such as young children and female workers, as you mentioned in your question. the danish study gave rise to the council conclusions adopted in december 2009, in which the commission was asked to examine how current eu legislation addressed the cumulative effects of different endocrine disruptors and, more broadly, to look at the general problem of how to deal with the cumulative effects of these types of chemicals. concerning the general question of the cumulative effects of chemicals, the commission recently made available through the internet a state-of-the-art report on mixture toxicity which was the result of the two-year study funded by dg environment. the commission is now engaged in consulting stakeholders on this report and has also submitted a formal request concerning mixture toxicity to the scientific committee on health and environmental risks, the scientific committee on emerging and newly identified risks and the scientific committee on consumer products. by early 2012 at the latest the commission will, on the basis of the study and the associated consultation process, finalise a report assessing how and whether relevant existing community legislation, including reach, adequately addresses risks from exposure to multiple chemicals from different sources and pathways and on this basis it will consider appropriate modifications, guidelines and assessment methods. since the launching of the community strategy on endocrine disruptors in 1999, we have invested heavily through the community research budget, to increase our understanding of the mechanisms by which substances affect the functioning of endocrine systems. over the same period we have included specific measures to address endocrine disruptors in two key pieces of chemicals legislation, reach and the plant protection products regulation. the commission has also participated actively in international initiatives to develop testing methods and testing strategies for the identification of endocrine disruptors. finally, the commission has recently launched a major study to consolidate all the latest scientific information and to make recommendations concerning testing strategies and criteria for the identification of substances with endocrine-disrupting properties. the study will be finalised by the second half of next year. the results from this study will be taken into account in reviewing the existing community strategy on endocrine disruptors and to provide input to the implementation of the existing eu legislation, by which i mean both the plant protection products regulation and also reach. so, in summary, the commission is aware of the seriousness of the questions you both raised and it is working intensively to address it in the most effective ways. it is not an easy thing because a lot of knowledge is still missing, but it is certainly a complex problem which deserves our attention and utmost consideration in the future.
i'm not going to let you do this. you say that in 2012 you will present a report in which you will reach a conclusion as to whether there is a need to revise the legislation because it does not take into account the cocktail effects. i can spare you that, because we can already see that at this stage. the legislation does not take into account the effects of cocktails. we who have worked with reach and those of you who know reach in detail - as i know you do - are well aware that the cocktail effects are not taken into account when it comes to the most dangerous substances - carcinogens and endocrine disruptors. furthermore, reach is based on two fundamental principles, the precautionary principle and a principle of protecting the most vulnerable consumers in our market, namely children and pregnant women. so should the commission not already be proposing to revise reach and perhaps other types of legislation to establish that, as part of the authorisation procedure, the substitution principle requires that cocktail effects be taken into account?
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to express my gratitude to the european parliament and particularly to the rapporteur, ms lena ek, for supporting the european commission’s proposals on the joint baltic sea research programme, bonus. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs on the committee on industry, research and energy for their constructive support and i would like to acknowledge the supportive opinion of the european parliament’s committee on the environment, public health and food safety concerning the bonus programme. eight of the nine states bordering the baltic sea are members of the european union, and we are all aware of the very complex and pressing environmental problems currently being faced in the baltic sea, which were outlined very eloquently by ms ek a few moments ago. these ever-increasing pressures are today threatening the capacity of the baltic sea region to continue to provide the diverse range of goods and services upon which we have all learned to depend. science has a very important role to play in supporting public policy in the research and environmental sectors. however, the fragmentation of the european research system and the lack of coordination and coherence among its national components undermine its cost effectiveness and overall performance. this is indeed the challenge that we face in the baltic sea region. it is clear that no individual baltic sea state acting alone can be successful in solving the complex environmental issues in this area. to tackle the environmental problems in the baltic sea it is now a matter of urgency to develop a strategic and integrated research strategy for the region, enable cross-border synergies, pool resources, share knowledge and enhance the cross-border mobility of researchers. this is how we can ensure a sustainable future for the baltic sea region. the bonus initiative, together with the efforts made within the framework of the eu strategy for the baltic sea region, will provide the structure and the means to address these challenges in an effective and coordinated manner. i welcome the institutional agreement that was reached with regard to the implementation of the bonus initiative on 27 april last. having said this, i would also like to stress my regret at the lack of agreement among the member states to put in place a real common-pot model, as set out in the original european commission proposal. without having a real common-pot financing facility, the selection of the best transnational research proposals based strictly on scientific excellence, the quality of the consortium and the expected impact cannot be fully guaranteed. it does not allow for the full realisation of the benefits, added value and efficiency gains of cross-border collaboration. for this reason, the european commission would like to stress that the implications of this decision should not be taken as a precedent for future proposals. member states will need to commit to a real common pot for cross-border funding and collaboration before the launch of any further initiatives based on article 185 of the lisbon treaty. to come back to this current initiative, the european commission has every confidence that the bonus programme will be in a position to optimise the potential of environmental research programmes in the baltic sea region, enhance the scientific capacity of the area, facilitate cross-border mobility of researchers, promote synergies and avoid wasteful duplication of research efforts. this will secure a sustainable future for the baltic sea.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, - mr president, i have to say something. bonus-169 is an important pilot project and involves cooperation on environmental problems in a given area. the programme is generally supported by all the baltic states. the programme should also cover non-eu countries which discharge their waste water and thus pollute the baltic sea, which is considered to be one of the most polluted seas in the world. the bonus programme has a tremendous task to do in clarifying all the many environmental problems in the baltic sea. the baltic sea is threatened by pollution of all kinds, from paper mills and the like, and by collapsing fish stocks, and by unexploded mustard gas bombs and russian gas pipelines, which do not contribute to the well-being of the ecosystem. so, yes, thanks to the bonus program. but it must not stand alone, it must be accompanied by the environmental awareness and action of the national states and also by financial resources.
mr president, i would like to speak in favour of proceeding with our votes today. just to quote rule 56(3): ‘if the commission does not withdraw its proposal, parliament shall refer the matter back to the committee responsible without voting on the draft legislative resolution, unless parliament, on a proposal of the chair or rapporteur of the committee responsible or of a political group or at least 40 members, proceeds to vote on the draft legislative resolution.’ it is very clear. we have asked to proceed. of course we should proceed. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe is a friend of israel. we have always been friends, and there has been a long tradition of that, but we have not behaved as good friends. we have let israel go to pieces and have increasingly destroyed not only its own reputation but also its security and its peaceful coexistence with its neighbours. this time parliament has come out with a very clear resolution, which i hope will be clearly adopted tomorrow, and i would say to you, mrs ashton, that you have the means. they have the opportunity to actually do something about it, so that israel can be helped now. because if it continues to run like this, it will surely be the end not only for palestine but also for israel. i therefore really hope that we will get beyond these very soft, vague formulations where we just let them run, and where we can at most lift a finger but do nothing. we have the means, you know them, and i hope you will use them.
i have to say, madam president, the international report clearly states that north korea is responsible for the sinking of the south korean ship. south korea has imposed sanctions on north korea and only humanitarian aid and transactions concerning kaesong continue. north korea, on the other hand, continues to provoke and expresses that south korea is manipulating facts. what are we gonna do? we are of course supporting our trading partner in south korea. i have just returned from a delegation to south korea, and here we felt the importance of this subject and the fact that it has become a tangle. it is therefore important that the eu should help to defuse the situation, which is, however, almost impossible at the moment. at the same time, it is clear that it is not only the us, south korea and the eu that must act on this issue. we need to see a play and action from both russia and china. we need a strong response from friends of both north and south korea and from the two countries' partners. that is why i support the content of this resolution.
for the edf group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. increasing demand and over-efficient fishing gear have led to the endangerment of a number of fish species. that is why a strong european aquaculture is important. we should export fish instead of importing them. however, aquaculture must be managed in a way that is both environmentally and animal welfare friendly. aquaculture is a major polluter and destroyer of our rivers' biodiversity. at the same time, it is hard on the fish, which are raised in far too little space and are exposed to a lot of medication. i would therefore urge that we on the eu side use the best practice approach and introduce only minimum provisions so that countries that want higher standards have the opportunities they want to do so. we in europe can create the framework for a responsible, sustainable, productive and animal-friendly aquaculture. it serves as a good example for countries in other parts of the world which have a large production in the area.
for the edf group. i am not sure that this is the case. the fact that bluefin tuna was not included in appendix i of the cites convention makes this call extremely necessary. this report is not a miracle cure, of course, but a necessary tool to save the species. the size of the stocks in our garden is uncertain, but unfortunately much smaller than we thought, due to the fad of eating sushi. the result is that the catch certificates are falsified, so that illegal catches are sold as legal. if we want to continue to eat tuna in the future, we must therefore tighten up the control of catches, and i would like to express a few doubts about the method just proposed by the council, since it is often caught from smaller boats far from any control. what we need, i think, are rules on how small fish can be caught. it's no use fishing for young fish or hatchlings. the weight limit is 6.4 kg and was adopted in 1974. if a population cannot reproduce itself, it will die out. it is also pointless to fish during the breeding season, because when we do, we are all fishing for the future. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the fisheries agreements are respected. no, as a responsible consumer you should check whether the fish you buy and eat as sushi comes from an endangered species or not. we cannot of course legislate on the latter right now, but we can only encourage all of us to be attentive consumers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this resolution contained a justified criticism of the israeli attack, but i regret that it does not go from words to action. let us imagine for a moment that it was the cubans or venezuela or iran who had attacked an eu ship in international waters without any prior declaration of war and killed a number of people - 9 killed, 34 wounded - on the grounds that there was an attempt to support terrorism in cuba or something similar. would we, on the eu side, have maintained a privileged trading status with such a country? no, of course we wouldn't. we would have reacted in a very different way. the problem with this resolution is that it has some nice wording, but it does not lead to action. it does not discuss the question of the privileged partnership. i think it is important that we follow our words with action if parliament is to retain its credibility.
the commission is not - mr president, i have to say something. the intelligent transport systems, what are they? yes, all kinds of information systems can make road transport more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly. it's gps as we know it when we drive around in cities, it can be road tax systems, it can be toll money. we already know some intelligent transport systems, but much more is on the way. there are systems that will give us much better information about the road situation: are there smooth roads ahead? there's been an accident, so there's a flesh wound? we also have the ecall system, the system that automatically calls an emergency call centre when an accident has occurred so that help can arrive faster. i would say that working on this report from the beginning caused me certain frustrations. at first, i thought it was a little difficult to figure out what intelligent transport systems really are, because they cover so many different things. so when i first found out what the possibilities were, i was actually frustrated that we don't already have the intelligent transportation systems. when you are in a queue and you do not know if you can get there or when you can get there and catch your plane, for example, it would be really nice to have these systems already. we could get much better information. so the question is: why don't we have the intelligent transport systems? the answer from the commission and from the experts has been that the reason for this is the lack of standards and specifications that can promote the use of the common transport systems, promote their production and also ensure that it becomes easier to drive across borders, so that a truck can drive from gothenburg to palermo and communicate with all kinds of different information systems, including different road tax systems, without having to have its windscreen plastered with different dipped-points that speak to different systems. the agreement now reached with the council calls for the definition of specifications for intelligent transport systems in four areas and in connection with six actions, for which deadlines have been set. it is about securing safety information, it is about securing general traffic information, it is about securing ecall, and it is about securing something that i have personally attached great importance to, namely that truck drivers can be given information about where there are safe resting places and can be given the opportunity to book a resting place in advance so that they have a less stressful life when they have to comply with the driving/resting rules. the biggest challenge in our work was the question of putting things into practice. the council agreed with parliament that we should clearly define the areas in which we should work on common specifications and standards. the council backed down on our proposals in determining when the agreed specifications should be in place in practice. that is why we have divided it into two stages: first we agree on the specifications, then we find out how to put it into practice. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the cooperation we have had in achieving this result, in particular mr koch and mrs ţicău and mrs brepoels. i think we've had an unparalleled partnership. i would also like to thank the swedish presidency for the enormous effort it has made to ensure that many of parliament's proposals are incorporated into the final text. finally, i would like to thank the commission, which has really been a midwife on this matter and has made a major contribution to our reaching a common agreement.
for the edf group. mr president, in the windscreen of my car there is a small electronic device that detects when i drive through a payment system in my country. i was delighted to discover recently that it also works when i drive through a similar system in my neighboring country! it would be nice if it could be so easy to get across europe, and that is exactly what my danish colleague anne e. jensen wants for all of us who drive a lot on europe's roads. i therefore wish to thank the rapporteur for the great work she has put into this directive. this directive has been a long process and contains a large number of technical and practical measures. i have the principle that i recommend european legislation only if it makes sense, and for me that means that it should be crossborder problems that are best solved together. i must say that this subject is so much more than it seems. at the same time, this directive is a helping hand to the truck drivers who are binding europe together. without them, all our eu trade would not exist. the only thing that is lacking is for the member states to put all the good intentions into practice. and here i see the problem, because the council is co-legislator of the directive, but roads are built in small national municipalities without much money for this purpose. similarly, much money and political will will have to be spent on upgrading rail transport.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like once more to thank the european parliament, and ms jensen in particular, for the excellent work in the legislative process leading to the adoption of the intelligent transport systems directive. i look forward to the important work ahead of us in the implementation of the its directive. we are committed to using the power conferred on the commission by parliament and the council for seven years to adopt the necessary specifications. we will do so in close collaboration with all relevant public and private stakeholders.
the commission is not mr president, i thank all my colleagues for their comments. i think that the debate shows that there is a great deal of enthusiasm about this issue and great expectations that we will be able to achieve good results. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his promise that he will take steps to make things happen and that he will work very closely with all the players in the field. i also know that the commission has promised to cooperate very closely with the member states on these matters. there has been a lot of nervousness in the member states about the risk that member states which had already invested in intelligent transport systems would see their investments wasted because they suddenly chose some other specifications and standards. it is important, i think, that we have now created a platform with this legislation for the member states and all the experts and the commission to come together and discuss things, and then it is to be hoped that also in the context of the actions and practical projects that will be carried out, a common understanding will crystallize of the way things should go. i think that we have done a great deal to ensure that things could and should be built from the bottom up, and that directives were not simply drawn up from the top down, but that there was actually a dialogue on these matters. finally, i would mention that we have also had the debate in parliament on whether intelligent transport systems make us smarter or make us dumber. it is clear that some have been pushing for the intelligent use of transport systems. i agree with that. you can easily see that people using their gps have no idea where they are because they have just heard the voice saying, "go right, go left". eventually, they don't know where they are. an intelligent transport system must be used intelligently.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. i too would like to thank mr iturgaiz for an important report which has many excellent points. since my speaking time is limited, i shall concentrate on our amendments. we should mention specific cases if the public is to understand what we are doing. i'm not trying to be a dick, but i've been working hard. the local or national authorities have listened to us. it is a misunderstood courtesy to speak only in the abstract about matters and it goes against the good intentions of many of my colleagues to make our work more citizen-friendly. amendment no 1 will make it clear that eu law is of course also superior to national courts. the report gives the impression that national courts have the final say; but of course citizens can turn to us with cases, even outside the domestic courts. otherwise, for economic reasons not the least, it will be almost impossible for most people to get their complaints through. amendment no 4 is probably the most important one for me. we should not allow the commission to evade its responsibility for ensuring that member states comply with community law. it is good to invent new methods, but i could not quite understand the commissioner's comment here, either, if there was not also an attempt to evade its obligations, and the commission should not be allowed to do that. finally, a few words on our amendment no 5 on the rules of procedure of the committee on petitions, which is unlikely to be dealt with in plenary. but in short, the current rules and methods work very well, and remember: if it ain't broke, don't fix it! we have already wasted too much valuable time on that debate.
the commission is not - mr president, i have to say something. i stand here today as a young politician and as rapporteur with an appeal. over the past year, more and more of my friends have lost their jobs. these are motivated young people who want to contribute to society but who instead have to stand in the back of the unemployment queue because there are no jobs! there are millions of examples of such young people in europe, and their numbers are growing. the european parliament is therefore putting itself at the forefront of a new agenda with this own-initiative report. we want to end youth unemployment. we refuse to let youth unemployment bite a generation and we will insist on helping young people get well into education and employment. statistics tell us that some 5.5 million young people under 25 in the eu are unemployed, and that young people are thus hit twice as hard as the general population. the reason why i am particularly concerned about youth unemployment is that it risks creating lifelong scars for the individual and for society. we know only too well the consequences of leaving the 1980s behind, where a generation was lost to longterm unemployment, to transfer incomes and to social exclusion. it's too expensive. but it's not just about economic forecasts, it's about people of flesh and blood. about young people with high expectations of themselves who feel they're not making a difference. young people who will have a hard time getting back into the job market if we don't pick them up now. that is why we, as the european parliament, are asking all member states to give priority to combating youth unemployment and we are asking them to invest in education. and that is why it is also crucial that the eu should come together on common strategies as a strategic priority at this very moment. we need an integrated and ambitious approach combining education policy, economic policy, employment policy and social policy. we have it at local, national and european level. in this own-initiative report, parliament makes a number of specific proposals to the commission, the council and the member states. let me highlight a few of the most important: 1. we propose a european youth guarantee to ensure that all young people under 25 are unemployed for a maximum of four months. then they must be offered a job, a training course or upgrading. 2. we propose an eu quality charter for academic trainees to ensure that internships are part of the training and that trainees are not used as cheap labour. at the same time we are proposing more and better apprenticeships for young people in vocational training. 3. we propose that all eu countries establish task forces to combat youth unemployment, and that the eu jointly establish a task force to coordinate, share knowledge and develop new initiatives. 4. not we are proposing more funds for the european social fund and we will allocate 10% of this, a minimum of 10%, to projects for young people. and then we will ensure that discriminatory practices on the labour market are stopped, where young people are prevented from accessing social benefits and a decent wage solely on the basis of their age. these proposals and all the others in the report are our bid to reverse the youth crisis in europe. with the right policies and investments, we can transform the european labour market and create a better future for europe's young people. we in the european parliament are ready to do our part to create more jobs and better traineeships, and we in the european parliament are ready to make a difference for europe's young people.
member of the commission. - madam president, if you will allow me, i would suggest that mr rehn take the trouble to answer you directly on the important question of the idea of eurobonds, in particular, and on the last points raised by mrs berès. he'll do it in writing in the next few days. in her opening remarks, mrs bowles referred to stress tests, which are tests of resilience to events that have not yet occurred and may not occur. so we have to understand what this is about, and at the commission we considered quite early on - president barroso expressed his opinion on this subject, as did olli rehn - that there were great virtues in transparency. i refer you to the answer, which is quite complete, that president barroso gave to this question. mr karas raised a very important point, raised in the previous debate on prevention and provision, namely that it is the banks that should pay for the banks, not the taxpayers. i confirm that, in addition to the communication i have presented on this subject, we will be proposing legislation at the beginning of 2011 which will provide for the creation of these precautionary or resolution funds to implement the 'polluter pays' principle while emphasising another idea, which i would remind you of, namely that prevention always costs less than repair. but it's only a tool, mr. karas. this resolution fund, this tax or this bank levy, is just one tool in a toolbox that includes others, with the aim that risks are identified early enough to prevent them from turning into a crisis and a crisis turning into a catastrophe. as regards the rating agencies, we are looking at all the issues, including the issue of sovereign debt ratings, which mrs berès has just mentioned. i confirm that we are working on diversifying this market, which is too concentrated in a few hands, and in particular on the option of a european agency. these ideas will also be reflected in legislative proposals in late 2010 and early 2011. mrs berès referred to the application of the stability pact. because i think, like you, we need to go beyond that. we have set up this european financial stabilisation mechanism as a matter of urgency, as you have understood. as i said earlier - and i am also replying to mrs băsescu - we are working on more permanent mechanisms, and the commission, in liaison with the working party chaired by the president of the european council, has not yet chosen the legal basis on which we are going to draw up these proposals for a more permanent crisis management mechanism. i would like to conclude, madam podimata, by referring to the work done by greece, which you know well. the greek government's very important commitment to do its part in this work must be taken into account. i would like to remind you that the recent crisis which has affected your country, but not only, and the risks of contagion associated with it, have clearly demonstrated the interdependence of the member states, particularly in the euro area. the crisis has also, in my view, accentuated the need for europe to demonstrate its determination to undertake fundamental reforms to ensure the proper functioning of the european union and the euro area as a whole. in its decisions on the creation of these two instruments, the ecofin council of 9 may provided proof that the european union was capable of responding quickly and effectively to major political and economic challenges. i believe, however, that there is a clear need to improve this economic and budgetary coordination, and i am well aware that the word 'coordination' can be used to go beyond the union. i would also like to say to mr rübig that, like him, i think that in the present situation we have learned our lessons - and this is not the end of it - we have talked about supervision and we must finish the decisions taken in the field of supervision and regulation - of the shocks to the euro and to greece through proposals for governance, coordination, this response and stabilisation system. the commission has also made important proposals on budgetary surveillance. i think we must do all this, but we must do more to speak to the citizens, who expect us to raise the economic outlook in terms of growth and employment. while we are talking about surveillance, stabilisation, efforts, regulation, regulation, i think we should also talk about initiatives within the framework of the europe 2020 strategy in order to restore growth and employment. that is why i attach importance, in the second part of my portfolio, to the proposal which i am working on with about ten colleagues, and which i will present at the beginning of october, on this idea of a single market act in order to make the fundamental basis, the platform of the whole european economy, which is the single market, work better. it is a market of 500 million citizens in which small businesses - very many - citizens and consumers do not meet. we know that if this market worked better for small and mediumsized enterprises, for citizens and consumers, we could find 2% growth in this market ourselves. i think that is also the speech that must be made, while at the same time taking the necessary steps to respond to all the citizens' requests at the moment.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing another aspect of the response to the crisis, namely the lessons of the crisis. after supervision, how to reform the remuneration practices that have encouraged reckless risk-taking, how to reform the capital requirements? on these two points, i want to thank and congratulate arlene mccarthy and saïd el khadraoui, your collaborators, the fictitious rapporteurs who worked with you, who demonstrated the commitment of your parliament to a more responsible, healthier, more stable economy, markets which must be put back - i repeat - at the service of the real economy, at the service of the citizens, rather than the other way around. this is an objective which the commission in general and the speaker in particular fully share. as soon as i was audited, i committed myself to responsible, citizen-centred european enterprises, to improve governance in financial institutions. i thank parliament for its support on these subjects, on these projects. i agree with your assessment, mr el khadraoui. we need to have binding measures on the remuneration policies of financial institutions. i am therefore very pleased with the compromise reached by the three institutions on the revision of the capital requirements directive, known as crd 3. it is a balanced, well-constructed compromise that sends a strong political message to the banks and to the public. this revised directive will strengthen the regulatory system, will increase capital requirements in areas where there are risks that are undercapitalised. it will limit the remuneration practices which, i repeat, have encouraged excessive risk-taking and have been rightly condemned by the citizens. it is a very important reform that addresses aspects that have contributed very significantly to the causes of the recent crisis: the trading book, complex securitisations, remuneration practices. it is a text that not only transposes the principles of the financial stability board, which we agreed at the g20 in pittsburgh in september 2009, to the european level, but also goes beyond that by setting clear, strict limits on the payment of variable remuneration, while leaving a margin of flexibility for credit institutions and investment firms. the payment of bonuses to the executives of banks receiving state aid is largely restricted. i think that's fair. the clawback mechanism will also allow for the reimbursement of part of the premiums in the event of underperformance. i also welcome the fact that these measures must be put in place by the member states as from 1 january 2011. i think it is very important that bonuses granted in 2010 but not yet paid on 1 january 2011 are properly covered by these new rules. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will propose corresponding rules for other financial sectors, such as insurance and investment funds, while respecting and taking account of the specific features of each of these sectors. a word about corporate governance in general, because beyond these aspects, mr el khadraoui's report illustrates the need to improve the governance of all companies. this is one of the key aspects of a stronger and more stable regulatory framework. i started this project. i recently proposed a global agenda for financial regulation for growth. the green paper of 2 june 2010 on corporate governance in financial institutions is a first step in this direction. we look at the role of the auditors, the board members, to make sure that everyone in charge is competent. that is one of the demands of your report, mr el khadraoui. it also looks at issues of conflicts of interest, the role and functioning of boards of directors, risk management, the role of shareholders, supervisors and auditors in financial institutions. we are going to open a real consultation on all these issues for two months. i also intend to reflect next year on corporate governance beyond the financial sector, including the role of shareholders and diversity, for example the place of women on company boards. a third point is the modernisation of the capital system. i have just mentioned crd 3 and the aspect of remuneration. this is a different aspect from the risk capital of the banks' trading book, which is the cause of the crisis. we now know that the current levels of capital held against these assets were wholly inadequate to deal with the crisis. crd 3 strengthens the regulation in this area, corrects shortcomings in the way the capital relating to the trading book has been calculated and significantly increases the levels of capital held against its assets. ladies and gentlemen, some of you may fear that these much-needed reforms will not be implemented by the end of 2011. i'm very aware of that risk. however, when it became clear that the us would not be able to implement the new basel committee rules on the negotiating portfolio before the end of 2010, i, during my recent visit to the us, took stock with the us secretary of state for the treasury, tim geithner, and we agreed internationally on a date for the application of the new rules. this international agreement was reached in may, when the basel committee agreed that member countries would apply the new rules by the end of 2011. in very flexible and internationalised markets, i think that global convergence, particularly between americans and europeans, is very important. i think that by negotiating this timeframe we have made sure with greater certainty that all our international partners, including and above all the united states, will implement the rules according to the amended timetable. i am aware that these negotiations on crd 3 have been very difficult at times. i would like to thank again, madam president, arlene mccarthy and the fictitious rapporteurs for the perseverance, creativity and availability they have shown. i was very happy that i, my staff and my staff at the dg could work with you with such intelligence.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, i have to speak. the economic incentives provided by bonuses, which have influenced the behaviour of stockbrokers, portfolio managers and directors in the financial sector, have been a major contributor to the financial crisis. we know the result, and therefore it is of course good that the directive is amended so that we avoid something similar in the future. in this connection i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the new agreement and thank him for his work. in the employment committee we have dealt with the remuneration policy itself and therefore we welcome, among other things, the areas of the agreement which focus on greater openness and transparency in the provision of information to all the parties concerned, shareholders, employees, the public and the authorities. in the opinion of the employment committee we also voted almost unanimously in favour of a ban on stock options. stock options have been the instrument in bonus schemes that has provided the greatest incentive to unnecessary risk loss. even the financial sector recognises this problem, and i am therefore sorry that the agreement does not include a ban on stock options.
for the edf group. i am not sure that this is the case. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr liotard, for his great work. personally, i always advocate putting consumer safety and the right to information at the centre of everything, and this applies to all foodstuffs. the report we are discussing contains questions on new food additives, enzymes, flavourings and ingredients with flavouring properties, and the question of food containing nanomaterials. can these affect our health? if so, should they be covered by a pharmaceutical regulation? the european union legislation on this is sensible, but the interests are very diverse. nanomaterials, animal cloning, and esoteric products that are already consumed on a large scale in other parts of the world. but who really wants these new measures? is it the industry that wants to sell more products? or is it really the consumer? i don't believe that last part. i believe that the citizens of the european union want good food in their supermarkets with a reasonable declaration of contents. i see in my country more and more customers choosing organic products, which imply good animal welfare standards and no artificial additives. finally, a comment on cloned animals and thanks to commissioner dalli for his comments on the subject. in europe we can easily feed ourselves without cloned products. my own small country of five and a half million people produces every year about 25 million pigs and more than 100 million chickens without any cloning.
for the edf group. mr president, thank you to mr hasse for dealing with a complex subject in such a short time. i would like to mention just a few of the many areas dealt with in the report: illegal timber entering the eu, endangered tree species illegally logged in remote parts of the world, and the importation of finished products produced in countries outside the eu. as long as we are talking about wood that has grown in european forests and is legally felled, it is not difficult to obtain information on the country of harvest, tree species, quantities and value in order to be able to put a legal logging label on a product. but how far back do we need to trace wood, and what products are realistic to control? i am thinking of furniture made of mdf and particle board made of, say, recycled wood. we must find realistic legislation, otherwise we will only end up with european firms no longer competitive on a world scale and therefore moving far away from europe's well-intentioned standards and controls. i hope that with the present arrangement we can prevent this.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, in the debate on iceland's membership of the european union, i am actually lacking a self-critical analysis. in my view, the debate should not be limited to the issues of iceland's adjustment to the eu. we must not become a propaganda centre, for iceland's membership has always been, is and always will be a clear advantage for iceland. we must be able to objectively assess the pros and cons. the icelandic people are not stupid. it is well aware that if iceland had been a member of the eu under the current fisheries policy, it would have been a disaster for the fishing industry, which is the country's dominant industry. the icelandic authorities have also confirmed that the bank has not been able to provide a full range of banking services to its customers. finally, the icelandic people can well understand that if the euro had been in iceland today, it would have been much more difficult to export out of the crisis, which fortunately iceland is doing well on the basis of its own liquid currency. the latest opinion polls in iceland show a growing opposition to eu membership. if there were a referendum today, 70% of the icelandic population would vote no and only 30% would vote yes. if you think that this result can be changed by a propaganda campaign about the blessings of the eu, you are completely mistaken! iceland's application should not only be an occasion to make demands on iceland, it should also be an occasion to look self-critically at the eu's own policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it contains a number of genuine calls for improvements in albania. but my 'yes' should in no way be understood as a direct or indirect call to the albanian people for eu membership. this is a question entirely for the albanians themselves.
in writing. the report as a whole: 'we danish social democrats have chosen to vote against the report on the eu's agricultural policy after 2013 as we do not believe that it really expresses a desire for an otherwise badly needed reform. we would have liked the eu to take the lead and stop all export subsidies by 2013 at the latest - independent of the actions of other wto trading partners. that was not in the report. we would have liked to see higher environmental, climate and sustainability requirements in the disbursement of aid than the unambitious requirements that exist today. that was not in the report. we would also like to see the share of the eu budget allocated to agricultural aid reduced significantly. this was not mentioned in the report either. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. amendment no 3: 'we danish social democrats are in favour of the european agricultural policy being made free of eu aid. free and fair trade must be the guiding principle of an agricultural area based on sustainability. we have voted against this amendment because we believe that the amendment is contradictory in itself, as it calls for the granting of eu aid without distorting free and fair trade. but the distortion of free and fair trade is precisely what eu aid schemes do today.'
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels. the report focuses on modernising and improving the efficiency of agriculture and ensuring environmental and animal welfare improvements, agriculture's contribution to energy and climate policy, and simplified rules for the agricultural sector. there are some statements about the eu's agricultural budget with which we do not agree, and the left will continue to work for a gradual phasing out of eu agricultural aid. in general, however, the report consolidates and develops the reforms of the eu's agricultural policy in recent years.
for the edf group. mr president, this free trade agreement is a win-win situation for both korea and the eu, both economically, socially and environmentally. the eu has an interest in the adoption of this agreement before korea enters into a similar agreement with the united states. it is urgent, as obama recently announced in toronto that the united states intends to ratify a trade agreement with korea next year. however, i'm beginning to have my doubts as to whether this deal is that simple even. in korea, a major network of corruption at the highest levels has just been uncovered, so we need to keep a close eye on developments in our main trading partners. a free trade agreement will emphasize that korea belongs to this group. we also need to find ways of ensuring that independent labour law experts or the eu itself can have direct access to the workers in the kics, i.e. the trading areas in kaesong where north koreans work for south korean companies. otherwise we risk giving access to products produced by means of forced labour and without respect for human rights. if we cannot access these areas, we must refuse to include kic products in the agreement. overall, however, it is good that this agreement gives us more transparency and that companies can be charged and taken to court if they do not meet the requirements. the conditions of employment are also now openly disclosed and can thus be discussed and checked. it is a clear advance if we succeed. finally, i would like to remind you that it seems that the eu is the one that benefits most from this agreement. this will hopefully lead to more jobs and to a strengthening of european growth.
for the edf group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. mr bové's proposal states that one of the main objectives of the cap was and is to ensure a fair income for farmers. i disagree with you. agriculture accounts for 40% of the eu budget. in my country almost everyone agrees that agricultural aid should be abolished, because we consider agriculture to be a free and competitive industry. this report goes in the opposite direction. it proposes several eu bodies paid for by taxpayers to unify and control an entire industry, from producer to consumer. i can only object. it is well known that transport, intermediaries and retailers also profit from goods, but the price is ultimately controlled by consumers, that is, all of us who go shopping every day. the proposal also calls for campaigns to promote the environmental impact of agriculture. it is not and should not be the task of the eu to conduct such campaigns. if the farmers feel the need for this, they must do so through their own organizations. that's what they're for. the need for reform of the agricultural policy is also clear. but this bové thing here suggests, it's been tried once before and found impossible and useless. it was called the planned economy. the agricultural situation in our european union countries is very different, and i therefore regard this as a national issue which should be dealt with in close contact with the individual farmers and their problems.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i am pleased that we have adopted today a report on better communication in the european union. i have also personally voted in favour of the joint resolution with the ppe, s&d and alde groups, as it is a report which gives us a strong basis. the report covers virtually all the proposals adopted in march by the committee on culture. however, i would say that there have been several compromises on the table along the way, which i had of course hoped would have held up all the way to the final vote. it was not possible because powerful lobbyists had brought some of the parties to the case to their knees at the last minute. but i take note of that and i am pleased to note that these proposals have led to a good debate, so that we can now move forward with the 46 proposals for improved eu communication.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the danish social democrats believe that there is a need to create clarity and transparency about food prices in the eu. we believe, however, that this report has a different objective, which could mean an increase in the current agricultural aid and further centralisation of food prices. that is why we voted against the final resolution, although we support the need for transparency in the distribution of income in the food sector and in food prices.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. much has been said about the content and process of these employment guidelines. there is no doubt that this parliament has considerably improved the guidelines in its work compared to the draft that was before it. i would like to make two points on behalf of the green group today: first, it has succeeded in securing support for an ambitious employment effort for particularly vulnerable groups, including young people. parliament calls for a halving of youth unemployment so that a maximum of 10% of young people between 15 and 25 are unemployed, compared with more than 20% today. an ambitious but necessary objective to ensure the future of the labour force, welfare and social cohesion. secondly, a majority in this parliament demands greater commitment to a social europe. in concrete terms, this means that we must not only combat poverty by increasing employment, but that in guideline 10 we require that work be of a proper quality and at a living wage. equal access to welfare and social services is another key requirement. we are saying clearly in this parliament today that we want to combat the 'working poor' and that we reject the idea that europe should have american conditions on the labour market. the two aspects, youth employment and a social policy, are two important improvements which i do not think the council or the commission can ignore.
i have to say, madam president, i shall continue with my criticism of the commission. we have heard here today a number of examples of the power, of the legislation, that has intervened against the press that is critical of the power. it must be a matter for the commission. i am a member of the committee on petitions, and we have actually heard the commission say that it was not responsible when fundamental rights were being violated in the member states. the commission was not aware of this. it has been severely criticised by the committee and when decisions have been adopted here in parliament. i would simply point out to the commissioner that the copenhagen criteria are not reserved for countries that are to be admitted to the eu. that is what a member of the commission said to us in the committee on petitions. the copenhagen criteria apply to all including the members of the eu. we would ask the commission to be more attentive and much more forceful in future in these situations.
madam president, i want to thank and support the commission and the council for their work on ensuring adequate financing from the financial sector. there are, however, a couple of issues. we support introducing a form of coordinated stability level and a fund, but when it comes to the financial transaction tax, we are talking about an entirely different and much more complex issue. that tax, as a minimum, would have to be global to avoid tax evasion. furthermore, a tax on all transactions might not only be technically infeasible, but would also risk making the markets more volatile and less liquid. i have some questions on taxes. if the purpose is to generate money for global causes, which money pots does the revenue go into, and who has the responsibility for distributing the money? for a tax for a specific purpose, when do we ever know when enough is enough? finally, the key question is who will collect the tax – the member states or the eu? if it is the eu, far away from its citizens, how do we prevent constant rising taxes? in the real world, enough never seems to be enough when it comes to politicians’ need for additional money.
mr president, i would like to thank you. improvement of the directive on the treatment of experimental animals - i can only vote in favour of that. but it's a bit of a paradox, because i'm actually against animal testing. there are alternative test methods and fortunately the revision of the directive takes this area into account. thank you very much. i hope that the development of more alternative test methods will be accelerated. but right now the eu must have humane and safe rules for experimental animals. it is finally established that animals are sentient beings, so we now have to introduce pain limits. but why not introduce a clause prohibiting the use of the same animals over and over again? and why don't we ban the use of monkeys for brain research? it is a pity that we give so much more consideration to the interests of animal welfare than to the interests of the community. i am also disappointed that we can only legislate for the eu here, because how are animal experiments treated in countries outside the eu?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the danish left party has voted in favour of the report on animal testing. it is no secret that very strong arguments have been put forward on both sides of this issue. there are those who believe that animal rights should take precedence, and then there are those of us who believe that society also has a right to see progress in the development of medicine and the treatment of diseases. our task, of course, is to ensure the right balance. we need to treat animals properly, but we need our scientists to have the tools to develop new treatments and cure serious diseases. the report drawn up by mrs jeggle hits the balance very precisely and we therefore think it was worth voting for. we also think it is good that we can finally move on from legislation dating back to 1986.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the last comment here made me think of an email we received some time ago from an american-israeli friendship organisation, which said that it was now time to start treating israel as a democracy. it reminded me of the famous story of gandhi, who was once asked what he thought about western civilization, and he said, "that would be a good idea". i think we should treat israel as if it were a democracy and make the demands that come with being a good democracy. it has been clearly stated here today: we cannot be satisfied with transparency only in public funds when we do not have it in private funds, even though everyone knows where the large private funds come from. we cannot take israel seriously when they use the persecution of jews and the holocaust as an excuse for treating others badly! i think that this trivialisation of the suffering of the jews is perhaps one of the most shameful things we have seen in this debate. the violent events that have taken place must not be used as an absurd excuse for not living up to the important rules of democracy. we must make proper demands on israel and not treat them as a colony of weak children or provide them with disability services.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am in full agreement with the two previous speakers, but i would like to take this opportunity to say that i think that many people here are overlooking the impossibility of insisting that the palestinians bear their share of the responsibility. because they don't have the opportunity to do that. how many people here are aware that since 1967 50% of the west bank's shoreline has been occupied by israeli settlements? 50% of the time! on top of that, 45% is set aside for military areas and nature reserves. they are simply out of the question! and the terrible thing about the palestinians - especially in the jordan valley - is that because we have not seen them resisting violently, they are simply forgotten! if there is no military action, if there is no dramatic event, they are simply forgotten! it is a terrible lesson we are teaching here, especially the poor palestinians. that they have to make - even noisy - attention to themselves. this problem must be solved. but we must not forget that the suffering of the palestinians is, if possible, even worse in this area than in the rest of the west bank, and that they do not have the chance, as things stand at the moment, to live up to the responsibility they should have. so a comprehensive solution must be found, and that is why the political picture must also be taken into account. it is not just israel, and it is not just syria, and it is not just jordan! but the palestinians cannot come as long as they do not have the opportunity.
for the edf group. mr president, thank you to the rapporteur for a good piece of work with many important points. i am particularly grateful for the fact that so much attention is being given to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. we regret that the intentions expressed in the treaty of lisbon are not being followed up at all in the commission's proposals. it is very sad to see how the whole aspect of the control of the national parliaments, which is about the principle of proportionality, has been taken out, and it is equally sad that the lisbon treaty has not gone all the way and said that if a massive majority of parliaments want to stop a piece of legislation because of a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, then of course they must have that possibility. the only thing that has been achieved is a few yellow cards and some orange cards - something which is in reality completely ineffective and therefore also more a joke against the autonomy and sovereignty of the national parliaments than a proper legal instrument. it is regrettable, but i think it is good that we are now beginning this discussion, that we are focusing on these important elements and that hopefully also in the process now beginning with the commission we can in the long term reach a situation where the member states are actually respected and where we are not only to take note if national parliaments find a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, but actually stop and think that we must find another way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we in the danish left party have voted in favour of the joint resolution on the roma, it is not because we do not think that large parts of the resolution are a little too emotional in their language and undocumented in their attacks. it is because we believe that there is reason to question the way in which france has suddenly chosen to expel the roma. we do not think that there is anything to be gained by comparing the repatriations of denmark or germany. denmark has acted by the book, and if germany cannot repatriate refugees from a war that is over, the concept of refugee status will disappear, and we will have a completely new legal order in the world. i must say that the struggle of the left against the unjustified criticism of denmark and germany has been unpleasantly lonely. neither the social democrats nor the sf have supported us. no, so much the better to have his country and the neighbouring country stained with polemics that have no documented justification. i think it's embarrassing, to be honest with you. i would like to conclude by stressing that the last explicit remnant of so-called criticism of denmark and germany was definitively removed by today's vote.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. however, the danish social democrats have chosen to vote for the resolution, as it contains, in addition to this call for the introduction of a minimum wage, a number of views and initiatives which the danish social democrats support.
for the edf group. i am not sure that this is the case. it is sad that we are faced today with a report on biodiversity which points out that we must take care of our planet. it should be obvious. but since we are clearly unable to take care of land, water, mountains, plants and animals on our own, we now have a thorough and comprehensive report that takes a critical look at the daily loss of biodiversity. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the common fisheries policy must safeguard biodiversity. it will require changes, but they are necessary. the same is true of agriculture. it is no use continuing in the old pesticide trail. here too, the conservation of biodiversity must be considered as a natural part of the profession. industry is an important player. it is difficult to be competitive on a world scale while taking account of the wishes of parliament. but dear industry, agriculture and fisheries! you too are citizens of this world, and your children should be able to hear the birds sing too. but the most important thing is that all eu citizens put into practice these beautiful words about nature every day.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since our last meeting, over 50 kurdish mayors in turkey have received their final verdict. and what had these mayors done? they had written an open letter to the danish prime minister at the time. the situation in turkey, a candidate country to the european union, is so absurd that mayors are being punished for writing letters to heads of state in an eu country. and the absurdities continue: on monday, 18 october, 151 kurdish politicians and lawyers will be brought to trial, including the mayor of diyarbakir, osman baydemir, and muhammar erbey, vice-president of turkey's human rights organisation ihd. the charge carries a maximum penalty of life in prison. i would urge the president to ensure that the european parliament is present to attend these trials.
what i would like to say is that the danish liberals are very pleased with today’s vote on the readmission agreement between the eu and pakistan. finally, after several years of negotiations between the commission and pakistan, an agreement has been reached which will allow the readmission of migrants who no longer fulfil the conditions for entry to, or residence in, any of the eu member states. this agreement is an important instrument in the struggle against illegal migration into the european union, especially because pakistan is an important country of origin and transit of migrants. with this agreement, pakistan agrees to take back its own nationals and, under certain conditions, third country nationals too. this agreement will enhance security on european territory.
in writing. - i would like to stress my satisfaction that we in the european parliament can agree to call for even closer economic cooperation with turkey, despite the great scepticism of large sections of the european population regarding increased integration between the eu and turkey. this scepticism is fully understandable. for many years turkey has had great difficulty in meeting the requirements that the eu rightly sets for membership. nevertheless, europe must continue to press for future turkish membership. with a population of some 75 million, turkey is a huge market for european export companies and is already europe's seventh largest trading partner. turkey accounts for a large proportion of eu exports, which generates growth and jobs in europe. and we buy cheap goods from turkey, which gives our consumers a cheaper and more versatile selection on the supermarket shelves. in other words, turkey is important for the european economy. however, it is only in trade in goods that the eu and turkey have become more deeply integrated. the service sector is lagging behind, and therefore a call for the service sector to be included in the trade agreement. at the same time, pressure must be put on turkey to remove the barriers to the free movement of goods which are necessary for the accession negotiations to proceed. otherwise it is difficult to imagine ever closer cooperation with turkey. turkey's membership of the eu remains the long-term objective. it is therefore important that we can solve mutual problems together and that turkey lives up to its obligations under the accession treaty. i hope that despite the scepticism of large sections of the european population about turkish membership of the eu, we will be able to maintain turkey as a close trading and cooperation partner and that we will not scare them away with the numerous rejections by the leaders of the major eu countries that turkey may become part of the eu in the future. because we need turkey, and not just in the economic field. turkey is an important regional player in the middle east and an important partner for nato. so let us not push turkey away, but let us build our cooperation, not least through strong economic cooperation.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. when you hear the commission speak, when you hear my bourgeois colleagues from the ppe group speak, you would almost think that this is all about making solutions that are as easy and as effective as possible in terms of bureaucracy. that's what this is about, of course. of course, it is also about the industry being able to market goods and trade across borders. it's just not the most important thing. the most important thing for us social democrats has been - and we will not compromise - the environment and health. almost every day, new research comes out showing that the overall chemical pressures to which we humans and our environment are exposed are increasing. we see young girls reaching puberty at ten or eleven years of age. we see cancer spreading. we're seeing new cancers coming in. we see couples who can't have children. many of these things are caused by the chemicals that are around us. chemicals also have many beneficial effects, we acknowledge. but when we know that there are chemicals that have very harmful effects, and we know that there are alternatives to many of the chemicals, then of course we have to replace the dangerous ones with the safe alternatives. this also applies to biocides. the most important thing for us has therefore been - and we seem to have achieved this to some extent with this compromise - to replace dangerous substances with safe alternatives. in addition, we have insisted that if we agree to a centralised authorisation process, which may be sensible as it may lead to less bureaucracy, etc., then individual countries must also be able to say no if there are special circumstances in a single country which make it necessary to ban or restrict a chemical in that country. we have also said that it is not just about what drugs are coming onto the market, but also about how they are used. that is why we have insisted that new legislation be drawn up in the near future, namely a framework directive on the use of biocides. finally, we have insisted on as few animal experiments as possible. too many animal experiments are being done today. there are alternatives. that was also one of our objectives, and we think we have succeeded.
mr president, i would like to thank you. several previously unknown allergies. people with fertility problems. the rise of rare diseases. poisoned fish and shellfish and food from animals laden with medicines are some of the things that worry the european population. more and more chemicals are being added to our daily lives to make our lives easier and our everyday products more appealing. is this chemistry working for us? no, we haven't, have we? however, with this report we must now find a legislative balance between running a competitive business in a sensible way, while at the same time giving priority to the safety of citizens and the environment. the balance is hard. i miss that the safety of both people and the environment is more in focus. i can therefore only recommend that we vote for the amendments which set the highest protection limits. it would be a good thing if we could increase the possibility of ensuring that eu countries do not import goods from parts of the world which do not meet our safety standards.
the alde group is not in favour of this. madam president, i thank mr lewandowski and the council for making the difference between your view and ours very clear. unlike the previous speaker, i would like to stress that what we are asking for in our report is not primarily more money, but that the eu should avoid chaos. because chaos and confusion are exactly what we get if we do not adhere to the agreements and the text of the treaty. this is the case with paragraph 4 of the present interinstitutional agreement and with articles 311 and 312 of the treaty. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. galileo, the food facility and the european recovery plan have also been mentioned. parliament supported these new measures, but we did not invent them. it was you - in the commission and in the council. and i must say that the council and the commission's reluctance to make the necessary revision of the financial framework is in sharp contrast to the fact that you are constantly coming up with new proposals and demanding new resources, as for example with the banana agreement and now for fusion for the iter energy project. moreover, we see a worrying tendency for member states to be willing to pay for joint projects, provided they are outside the eu budget. it creates extra bureaucracy and it does not ensure democratic control of the use of funds. i can therefore say with confidence that this debate is not just about more or less money for the eu, it is about good governance and about avoiding chaos.
mr president, today’s vote on the two pharmacovigilance files will give us a safer and more effective system for the monitoring of medicinal products. the compromises reached in the two files are balanced. the new system will take due account of both the risks and the benefits of medicinal products. it also takes due account of the need for control without creating too much bureaucracy, and the central procedure for authorisation of medicinal products, in particular, will be more streamlined. the compromise helps secure the financing of the system, with a possibility for the european medicinal agency to charge fees for its services. of course this is a compromise, but compared to how divergent the views were from the outset, i believe that this is a sensible solution.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, the resolution we are debating today expresses our unconditional opposition to the death penalty. there is simply no excuse for states to kill defenseless people in their care with cold and deliberate intent. that is why the death penalty is itself a crime. but often it is more than that. when death row inmates wait for years in miserable conditions, the death penalty is also torture. or when the death penalty is used to deter populations from ending oppression and dictatorship, as we see in iran, for example, then the death penalty is also terror. as mrs lochbihler rightly said, the african-american journalist mumia abu-jamal is today a symbol in the fight against the death penalty. "the voice of the voiceless", as he was called when he was charged with the 1981 murder of a white police officer and sentenced to death. for nearly 30 years, this man has been on death row after a trial marked by errors and racial overtones. it is therefore quite right that the motion for a resolution points to mumia abu-jamal as one of the concrete examples to be given attention in the coming period, in particular by european union representatives raising the matter with the american authorities, the american administration and, of course, the american president. and this example is no less important because it comes from the united states, which is in many respects an ally of the eu - perhaps quite the opposite. in the fight against the death penalty, there is no room for double standards. in the fight against capital punishment, there is only one standard: no to the death penalty!
for the edf group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. biodiversity is the context of all things simply put. and that is why we must fight to preserve it at the nagoya conference. but as we continue to clear forests, to plough new land and to damm rivers, there is clearly a lack of knowledge and capacity to incorporate habitats and ecosystems into national legislation. from modern agriculture, fishing, urban development, road networks and transport to a diverse industry, everything is having a negative impact on the planet's biodiversity. life at sea is bad. over 60% of all seafood eaten in the eu is caught outside the eu. we've over-fished and the stocks are having a hard time recovering. the baltic sea is experiencing a historically high level of pollution. in sweden, pregnant women are advised not to eat locally caught fish. the eu countries have taken steps to improve the environment, but what about the rest of the world? and what can we do to help other parts of the world to progress? the world's biodiversity will be lost as a result of human activities - whether global warming occurs or not. but we must not make unrealistic demands here. biodiversity is best served by remaining realistic. it is therefore high time that we found practical, realistic solutions for the preservation of healthy soils, healthy plant and animal life and healthy aquatic environments.
in writing. - i voted for the report because the money from the globalisation fund goes to workers affected by collective redundancies. however, i think there are a number of problems with the fund itself, for example that the vast majority of the money paid out from the fund goes to the richest countries in the eu. my vote should not be interpreted as support for the eu's 'aid carousel'. i think it is a waste of money for denmark to send money to the eu, only to have it sent back to denmark after a tour of the bureaucracy.
in writing. - i voted for the report because the money from the globalisation fund goes to workers affected by collective redundancies. however, i think there are a number of problems with the fund itself, for example that the vast majority of the money paid out from the fund goes to the richest countries in the eu. my vote should not be interpreted as support for the eu's 'aid carousel'. i think it is a waste of money for denmark to send money to the eu, only to have it sent back to denmark after a tour of the bureaucracy.
in writing. - the left meps voted in favour of the karas report (a7-0251/2010). the report touches on a number of key points and calls for the implementation of basel iii to be carried out in the most appropriate way and with respect for the diversity of financial systems. the members of venstre, however, regret that the danish recommendations on the protection of the danish mortgage model have not been taken into account even more. some of the basel proposals could cause major damage to well-functioning mortgage credit models in europe, including the danish one.
in writing. - i fully support the report's recognition that mortgage bonds and other types of securities are issued which are in fact as liquid and secure as government bonds. i therefore fully support the report's indirect support for the danish mortgage model, although i think that denmark should be mentioned more directly in the text. i abstain because the report, in the interests of competitiveness in the european union, calls for no stricter financial regulation than in the rest of the western world, including the united states.
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. - mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on culture and education, i am proud to say that we in parliament have succeeded in doing what the commission was unable to do and what the council was unwilling to do, namely to take account of the commitments of the new europe 2020 strategy and to follow up with financial support to achieve the objectives set out in the strategy. investing in training and lifelong learning is crucial to making 'new skills for new jobs' a central part of the strategy. that is why we would also like the council to support the position on the 2011 budget which we in parliament are expected to adopt tomorrow. including, of course, in particular, the additional €18 million for the lifelong learning programme. it will give more than 3,500 european students the opportunity to take part in erasmus exchanges. we will increase the number of students in vocational training who can take part in practical training. we will get more adults into eu-funded continuing training. then there is €10 million for the people programme, which will increase the mobility of graduates and phd students, allow for closer cooperation with business and modernise eu universities, as well as money for communication. we would appreciate the council's support.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, president of the council! the budgetary policy of most member states is being hammered with the knife of austerity. should we not then hold back on the eu budget? yeah, and we kind of do, too. this is the theme running through the establishment of parliament's budget for next year. we have kept ourselves below the ceilings set by the multiannual budget agreement, but this can only be done by cutting clear priorities and international commitments. otherwise we cannot get enough funds for research, energy and aid to palestine. in particular, we have had to cut the allocation for the iter fusion energy project and for the common foreign and security policy and for aid to banana-producing countries and cooperation with newly industrialized countries. i think that reflects the fact that the multiannual framework is too restrictive and i would like to deplore once again today that the commission has not delivered, as promised, a real mid-term review of the framework. we must go through the financial perspective up to 2013 or we will be in trouble. the commission has just given us a communication on budgetary analysis, which draws the lines for several years ahead, but we do not have an explanation of how we are to make ends meet in 2011, 2012 and 2013. on behalf of the alde group, i would like to thank mrs jędrzejewska for her expert management of the budget vote. we are satisfied with the result. we should have seen different figures on some parts of the agricultural budget. we didn't want 300 million for a milk fund. we will also help to solve the problem of clearance of accounts. we voted wrong there. in addition, there are some individual items on parliament's budget where we would also like to see savings, but overall we are satisfied with what is here now and i look forward to a good debate with the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the rangel reports a7-0278/2010 and a7-0279/2010. however i strongly disagree with the rapporteur’s assumption that ‘the treaty of lisbon deepens significantly democracy in the eu, giving to citizens of the union, mainly through the parliament, a reinforced power of scrutiny of the commission.’
in writing. we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have voted in favour of amendments nos 700, 701 and 706 to the budget. we have done so, even though the remarks contain a phrase that the eu should move towards a 'low carbon economy'. we are aware that the proponents of nuclear power are trying to use this term to hide the fact that we are talking about an economy in which nuclear power plays a prominent role as an energy source. we would like to stress that we think it is a very bad idea to spend eu funds on nuclear-related expenditure and it is with this reservation that we have voted in favour of the amendment.
in writing. − in the vote on the eu's 2011 budget, the left voted against a number of amendments to remove money for export refunds. expenditure on export refunds is a statutory matter and will therefore be paid regardless of the amount shown in the budget. however, if the expenditure is not included in the eu budget, it will have to be paid by the individual member states. at a time when national budgets are being cut, it would be economically irresponsible to impose this considerable extra cost on the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the reason why the left party voted against this proposal is that the premium is only paid in denmark, sweden and slovenia, where, as we know, there is no bullfighting. finally, the left voted against allocating dkk 300 million to a european milk fund. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the fund to cover the following areas:
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is brought under control. we believe that all eu countries should adopt poverty targets and introduce minimum income schemes. at the same time, we believe that these objectives and schemes should be adapted to the circumstances of each member state. we believe that there are several ways of measuring poverty and it should be up to each member state to find the best way of measuring poverty and to design a minimum income scheme tailored to the member state.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the left voted in favour of the overall report, which was otherwise balanced.
for the edf group. i would like to thank mrs meissner for a well-founded and comprehensive report to which there is hardly anything to add. i am, like her, a strong supporter of coherence between policy areas, interdisciplinary research programmes and new challenges, but most of all i am concerned with the problems of pollution of our gardens. we adopt so many reports in this house that they are unfortunately forgotten shortly after they are adopted. and so i would like to remind the commission of an additional protocol which parliament adopted on 26 january this year, almost nine months ago. it deals with the establishment of cooperation between the member states in dealing with disasters in the north-east atlantic. this is a subject which my colleague mrs meissner also mentions in paragraph 4 of her report. to date i have received no feedback from the commission on the subject, nor whether any steps have been taken towards establishing such cooperation or preparedness among member states, or whether the commission may itself intend to set up an eu preparedness. and all this despite the recent oil disaster in the gulf of mexico and the threat of the over-age and rusty oil wells in the north sea. so i ask the commission again: where does the emergency preparedness stand with regard to our gardens? or must something serious happen before europe wakes up?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we are debating tonight what i believe might be the most important act for the eu in the years to come. it is within the context of reforming the single market that we have the real opportunity to transform europe into a more social and sustainable union, so the question is: does this communication manage to point towards a more green and socially just internal market? i believe we are not quite there yet. let me give you two examples, firstly proposal 29. here i have to ask you, mr barnier, where is the guarantee for the right to strike? where is the guarantee that fundamental social rights will not be overthrown by the freedoms of the market? i am aware that there are different positions within the commission on this question and i would like to ask you very directly: is it true that among others, the danish, swedish, german and british commissioners have fought against your proposal to introduce a social clause? if this is so, commissioner, you should know that you have the backing of this house, because achieving such guarantees would be true reconciliation. a second example of something that needs to be improved is proposal 19, the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base. we greens have been asking for this for a long time and should therefore be happy. but the problem for us arises when we read the text. it says that the ccctb should aim at removing fragmentation for business. listen. i believe that the major problem with company taxes in europe is not fragmentation, but unhealthy ongoing downward competition between member states. this has been going on for 15 years now. no wonder that we have problems financing our welfare at this time. i believe the aim of a ccctb should be to put an end to unhealthy competition in europe. that is the real problem. furthermore, i think we need to go beyond the proposal right now on greening the internal market, for example by using green procurement. i believe we can achieve much more there. so, mr barnier, i believe we have work to do. i am looking forward to that and thank you for inviting us to join in this very broad discussion. we appreciate that.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, thank you to the court of auditors for a good report. as we have heard, there has been an overall decline in the incidence of errors. and how are we supposed to measure that? i think it depends on two things: the starting point and the expectations. the starting point was disastrously poor. in 2008, billions of euros were paid out in violation of the rules. the expectations were therefore not just for improvements but for significant improvements in all areas. and has it happened? in the area of cohesion, there has been a clear decline in the rate of payment errors, which is good, although it is still unacceptably high. but in other areas there has been an increase, which is simply not good enough. the other day in the committee on budgetary control and again today, commissioner šemeta explained the overall reduction in the number of errors as a result of the commission's efforts. fine by me. i would like to give the commission the honour. but it also makes clear who is responsible if the failure rate rises next year. just take it as a call.
i have to say, madam president, thank you to the court of auditors for once again providing us with a good working tool when we have to assess how we spend money in the eu. we can say that fortunately things are going in the right direction, although there are still many problems. but because it is going in the right direction, i think we need to take the time to look at what the next step might be. if we look at the way in which this is done, for example, in administrative expenditure, we can see that we have both an effective control system and a low level of error. but for me, it's not enough. we also need to spend time examining whether we are actually spending the money in the right way. the administrative costs, that's the cost of salaries and buildings and so on. we should ask ourselves: are we really getting enough for the money we spend on wages? are we spending the money properly in terms of how we manage our buildings and so on? i think we need to take the debate a step further now, so that we can discuss the question: is it effective enough? and so we'll have, by the way, a lot more transparency about it. i would therefore urge not only the european parliament but also the commission to show a great willingness to be more open and to take up this debate.
in writing. - i cannot support the motion for a resolution because there is no need for additional support for the agricultural sector. agricultural aid already accounts for up to 40% of the total eu budget. the proposal for a resolution is also completely uncritical of the cap, which must necessarily be reduced by 2013, when the next multiannual financial framework is to be decided.
for the edf group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i agree with the rapporteur that the focus should be on patient safety and information. patients, nurses and doctors must have access to the best possible information about a given medicinal product. doctors i speak to want greater access to objective information about medicines for themselves, patients and other professionals. in addition, they want uniformity in the labelling of medicines, since they use the internet to a very large extent to find information on the effects of medicines. here they compare the active ingredients in your medicine from different companies in the country and abroad. it is therefore of the utmost importance that pharmaceutical companies understand their responsibilities and the importance of their information being factually and professionally correct and not being construed as promotion. pharmaceutical companies have to sell their products, we know that, but accountability actually promotes consumer confidence in a drug.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the decision was taken on the basis of a real fear of exploitation and overfishing of tuna. in particular, two species, the yellowfin and the greater bluefin, are endangered and therefore fishing for those species should be stopped as far as possible. the present fisheries agreement threatens tuna stocks, since it blocks all landings as long as european fishermen compensate tuna economically per country. this is likely to lead to uncontrolled overfishing and, in the worst case, to threaten the regional survival of tuna.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would say to both mr wathelet and mr barroso that i very much agree that we must reach an agreement. of course we have to. we in parliament feel the same way, and that is why we were so willing to accept the compromise which the council had found. the council is not in agreement on the size of the budget either. we accepted the increase in payment appropriations of 2.91%. in return, we must demand that we have some means of getting a proper budget in the coming years. it is a question of flexibility and it is a question of dialogue on the budget for the coming years. this flexibility is very tangible. we have been able to meet new demands by being flexible. we could not have started energy projects as part of the recovery plan - for example, linking the baltic countries' electricity grids to the nordic ones, or linking the gas grids in bulgaria to those in western europe, so that russia could no longer shut off the heat - if we had not found the money for this in the agricultural budget. we need to have such possibilities to move the funds in the eu budget. that's why we need flexibility. it is also important that we have a good dialogue between the council, the commission and parliament, including with the national parliaments, on the eu budget after 2013. we must not put the european parliament in a position where we can only say yes or no to the medium-term financial perspective. we risk saying no, we risk the same thing happening as with the swift agreement. the eu's own resources must be reformed again. it is not a question of creating a european taxation system, but of creating a system which is transparent and understandable, without special rules, without rebates, so that the system is understandable to the citizens. we need this debate now, and i am therefore pleased that the commission has promised to take the initiative and come forward with a proposal before next summer.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, congratulations to mr fjellner on a great result. the danish liberals have voted in favour of the directive on information on prescription medicines. it is important that eu citizens have access to good information on prescription medicines and we think that we have a good report that puts the patient at the centre. we have, however, been forced to abstain from voting on the regulation itself. and this is not because we do not support the idea that eu citizens should have access to good information on prescription medicines, but because parts of the proposal are contrary to a number of national constitutions. several countries have already, before the medicinal product package is presented, drawn the commission's attention to the legal problem of their national constitutions. the prior control of information disseminated to the public by the authorities is contrary to the definition of freedom of expression in several countries. we cannot therefore vote for the european medicines agency to check certain types of information before it is disseminated to the public. we expect, however, that both the council and the commission will seek to resolve the problem before the second reading and therefore hope that we will be able to vote for the regulation itself at that time.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to speak about fjellner's report a7-0289/2010 on the creation of a medicines agency, which contains a number of good and important measures. that is why i voted for it. i found this difficult, since i am opposed to the creation of more eu agencies. but a single agency for the evaluation of medicinal products and for the provision of information to the public on prescription medicinal products for both humans and animals makes good sense to me. especially now that medicines are increasingly produced both within and outside the eu's borders.
in writing. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a joint resolution on the situation in the european union and the european parliament's role in the fight against drugs, and the european parliament has called on the commission to take action to combat drug trafficking and drug addiction. although the report contains a number of good proposals, we do not think we can vote for a proposal which is contrary to the danish constitution.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all let me thank and congratulate ms kolarska-bobinska for an excellent report and then let me start with a little story from the real world. ten years ago china did not produce one single windmill; today china houses one of the world’s top ten wind-energy companies. in two years they expect to have two companies in the top five. ten years ago there was nothing. today china represents 50% of global windmill production. china is moving and they move fast. in this light, i am sorry to say, the commission’s new energy strategy is discouraging in its lack of ambition for a greener future. we need an ambitious energy strategy for europe, not only in a cop-16 resolution that nobody reads anyway. we need to implement ambitious, concrete policy targets in europe. ‘when the time is right we can get ambitious’ seems to be the strategy of the council and commission. well, the time is right and we cannot sit back and relax and wait for some grand international binding agreement before we act. for an energy strategy to deliver on climate, on growth, on jobs, we need a much more ambitious and market-based approach so that we can use the market mechanism to our advantage. it is up to ourselves to create a drive in the market, to show the pioneers where we want to go so that they can take us there. that is why alde is calling for the eu to move to a 30% co2 reduction target. the carbon market, the main mechanism for our co2 reductions and green investments, does not work. it is flooded with quotas and the price is too low, so there are no incentives to invest in green technologies. we believe that the eu needs to make this move for the sake of our economic growth, climate and energy security. come on europe, come on commission; let’s walk the talk. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good report and a very balanced report. there is no doubt that there is a growing need for a new energy strategy for europe, including in european companies. we are becoming more and more dependent on gas from russia and oil from the middle east. the energy strategy has become both a part of europe's foreign and security policy and a question of security of supply. our decisions in europe are crucial to our competitiveness. massive investments are needed in the future to achieve a full and coherent internal market - as well as massive investments in energy efficiency. what's saved is earned. and energy efficiency is the cheapest way to reduce co2 emissions. i would like to thank commissioner öettinger today for his remarks on energy efficiency. as far as energy efficiency is concerned - whether the targets are binding or not - i welcome the commission's communication, which identifies a number of areas where we can do more. i am also open to giving the commission more power to reject the national action plans if they are not sufficient to reach our 20% target by 2020. in addition, the us and china are investing heavily in energy efficiency. everyone is aware that the price of energy will rise in the future and europe is currently suffering from a lack of competitiveness in a globalised world. that is why we need to make our companies more competitive by making good investments in energy efficiency, infrastructure, smart grids and more. the side benefit will be new jobs, innovative businesses in a europe which is currently losing thousands of jobs.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in december, everyone, officials, politicians, journalists, activists and many others, will go to a summit in mexico. this parliament is also taking part, although there is still chaos about how many members are allowed to leave. when we go to the climate summit, there is one important thing we must remember to take in our luggage. the realism. i know it's not a popular thing to say, but it's important if the people of the world are to believe us. the eu should be 'front runners', it sounds so good, that is, leading by example. that's great! but we must be careful not to run so far ahead that no one follows us. it is not useful to pursue a policy which only a few countries are willing or able to follow. in fact, we are only achieving one thing by doing so, namely to move our own labour-intensive industries out of europe to countries with far more lenient legislation, lower wages and poorer working conditions. we will be short of jobs and that will hurt our european economies. we must therefore work towards solutions that can include emerging countries such as china, india and the south american continent. i hope that we will learn from last year's meeting in copenhagen and this year aim for the achievable instead of the impossible.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the committee on petitions, or the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, is very much concerned with respect for eu law. citizens come to us because national or local authorities do not comply with eu legislation on the protection of human health and nature, for example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community. there has been no serious attempt to tackle the problem. both the public and protected nature suffer. what we called the happy campania! the commission must make use of all available resources without delay. the treaty gives the commission a crucial role. it is responsible for monitoring compliance by member states with eu law. we in the committee are therefore very attentive to how the commission deals with infringements of the rules. in this light, i welcome the report by mrs lichtenberg. she makes it quite clear that it is not possible to simply send complaints about member states' infringements back to them to have them resolved there. they're the ones who get the complaints. it's leaving the citizens completely behind. in this context, i would like to congratulate the european ombudsman for having carried out an own-initiative inquiry into the commission's new way of dealing with complaints and infringements, in particular the way in which the commission registers or perhaps does not register allegations against member states of infringement of community law. the ombudsman is also competent to deal with the substance of the complaint that the commission has failed to follow up on the infringements, although the court of justice is, of course, the final court of appeal. in any event, it is a step forward if we adopt mrs nedelcheva's proposal in her report for a proper procedural law for the european union's administration, which we have finally found in article 298 of the treaty of lisbon. although the ombudsman's annual report shows many signs of improvement, it is still worrying that over one third of complaints relate to a lack of transparency and access to documents and information. it is shameful that the commission and several member states are trying to protect big lobbyists rather than citizens through what clearly seems to be an abuse of data protection rules. a striking example is the ombudsman's special report on porsche and the correspondence on protecting co2 limits for cars. does anyone here think that a small or mediumsized undertaking would have been consulted by the commission on access to letters or that the commission would have delayed the case for 15 months for the sake of a small undertaking? of course not! that is because it was a porsche and, of course, perhaps also because it was mr verheugen. the ombudsman's special report tells a longer story and i would recommend that everyone read both mrs paliadelis' excellent report and the report itself. it's a lot of fun. you keep closing your eyes. the most serious aspect of this case, however, is the commission's lack of loyal cooperation with the ombudsman. it is an important report. it is necessary for parliament to make a clear statement on this matter. thank you to the ombudsman and thank you to mrs paliadeli.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mrs kolarska-bobinska for her excellent report and for the excellent cooperation she has shown. a report which was made even better today in this house than it was before, by a majority in this house taking the view that we in europe should move from a co2 reduction target of 20% up to 30%. this is the precondition for us to be pioneers and not only to create an evolution in the field of the environment, but also to ensure that we become competitive in the field of green environmental technology. in this way we will safeguard jobs, the economy and the environment at the same time and find simultaneous answers to the major challenges facing europe. it was a good day for europe with the vote today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am naturally pleased that parliament has adopted a resolution which provides a negotiating position in support of our climate change commissioner who is going to cancun to negotiate. but i also think it is sobering that, when we had great difficulty in getting the eu to speak with one voice at cop15 in copenhagen last year, we saw parliament as divided as it was, both in the votes on the amendments and the overall resolution. in this connection i think we might learn a little from the fact that it sometimes pays to hold back a little with demands for a tobin tax and other taxes, because it helps to divide parliament. it would have been better if the demands had been reduced and our negotiator had been sent off with a clearer and broader mandate than that which we have today.
in writing. the danish social democrats abstained on the 40% reduction commitment. the social democrats support 40% in principle, but in this particular vote have chosen to support 30% as the practical achievable result. this is also reflected in the final result.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint resolution on western sahara (b7-0675/2010). however, i strongly regret that the resolution fails to mention and criticise the illegal fisheries agreement between eu and morocco, which allows european fishing fleets to operate in waters within occupied western sahara territory.
i have to say, madam president, - i'm not going to lie to you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when we know that hundreds of thousands of people are sold into slavery in western europe every year, we have a duty to act! it is therefore a great pleasure that the council and parliament have been able to reach agreement on this new directive on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings. the new legislation is considerably stronger than the current one and a major victory in the fight to ensure better assistance and protection for victims, while at the same time making the hunt for the unscrupulous perpetrators even more targeted and effective. i am glad that the directive emphasizes that victims must be kept completely free from any form of prosecution and punishment. when you've been forced to commit a crime, it's the perpetrators who should be punished, not the victims. the european parliament has also stressed that assistance to victims must always be provided in a language and format that they can understand. and we must not forget that voluntary and non-profit organizations play a crucial role both in preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. today can be a great day for decency, when the european parliament will hopefully vote in favour of this new legislation, which will mean a much-needed handshake to the victims and an intensified hunt for the perpetrators.
mr president, i just want to say that my voting machine did not work for the vote on the european protection order, but i would have voted in favour because this is a very important issue and it was important for parliament to adopt the european protection order today. this legislation is essential for europe. the mutual recognition of judgment and judicial decisions is fundamental in an area of freedom, security and justice. in order to prevent a crime, or a new crime, being committed against a protected person, the executing state is now given a legal base for recognising a decision previously adopted in another member state. this legislation is needed for the prevention of violence against women and the other victims of violence. it is an essential and important step in enabling victims to reside or stay wherever they want in the eu and thereby be included in the freedom of movement.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here on the final strait for the adoption of the 2011 budget. it wasn't a health walk. there have been a number of setbacks, but i hope that we are finally getting the hang of this budgetary procedure and that we can, as the rapporteur has reminded you earlier, vote on a budget before the end of this year. i think that is what was really driving us all today and we have here the demonstration that when each of the budgetary branches said that they really wanted to reach an agreement, they were right. but perhaps it should also be said that we have carried out a new exercise, we have opened a new procedure, and i think - as the rapporteur has just said - that everyone has had to put a little water in their wine, everyone has had to make a number of compromises. on the one hand, the european parliament itself has substantially amended the council's draft on commitment appropriations. it has secured the inclusion of several projects and preparatory actions, it has led debates and questioned the appropriations for many policies, and it has really played its full role as budgetary authority. it also accepted the constraints imposed by the council, particularly in the area of payment appropriations, with a certain degree of rigour. but there is also this joint statement to which the rapporteur refers. this joint declaration is of course endorsed by the council, since it is a joint declaration. and you are also aware that there was a letter from the belgian prime minister, who is currently holding the presidency of the council, to the president of the european parliament, recalling that the representatives of the next four six-monthly presidencies had confirmed their willingness to conduct the procedure for drawing up the future financial perspective in accordance with the provisions of the treaty. this is the first implementation, so to speak, of the joint declaration we adopted together on the preparation of the next financial perspective. on the other hand, the european parliament also presented a statement of objections concerning its own ambitions in the procedures relating to own resources and you yourself were able to read the statement of the european commission, which showed that in the exercise of its power of initiative it will indeed make progress on these elements, thus implementing the real new budgetary procedure, as well as the next financial perspective. as regards the 2011 budget as such, it is true that it is a rigorous budget, with an increase in payment appropriations of 2.9%. but despite this we have been able to bring about the creation of the european external action service. the three new agencies in the field of financial supervision were also able to be financed under this rigorous increase in appropriations of 2.91%. we were also able to take account of the political priorities which parliament wanted to implement with 105 million for new preparatory actions, youth and mobility projects, thanks to the mobilisation of flexibility instruments. you have seen, madam rapporteur, that when we talk about parliament's priorities, we use exactly the same words that you have repeated over and over again, both in the trilogues and in your last speech. the new procedure under the lisbon provisions was a new experience for all of us, and i am the first to admit it. but it is true that we have been able to have a number of meetings in this respect, and occasionally heated discussions, but once again, we can say today that we have reached an agreement. i would say that i have a little too much left to taste, a slight bitter taste in my mouth, unfortunately, as regards the possible transition from unanimity to qualified majority flexibility. i think that, thanks to the tensions we have had, we were really close to an agreement and i am afraid that this possibility is not present. i think it is a pity that we have not seized this opportunity, either on the question of flexibility as such or on the funding of iter. so perhaps it should not be a simple procedure but when there is good will, the will to achieve on both sides, we can achieve it. and i would also like to thank all those who have really helped to ensure that we can, i hope tomorrow, confirm this agreement: president buzek himself, who, i would say, wet his shirt in this budgetary procedure, but also president lamassoure, the rapporteurs, mrs jędrzejewska and mrs truppel, and of course commissioner lewandowski who, despite the disagreements, came back with new proposals each time, making sure that this procedure finally succeeds. so this is proof that we can reach agreements, proof, also, that this new lisbon procedure can be a success. despite the obstacles and difficulties we faced, we managed to reach an agreement, we have this budget which, far more than a budget, is also a concrete element for citizens in terms of mobility, in terms of youth, in terms of the structural funds which will be able to be released for the regions of europe which really need it, the external action service, the financial agencies. yes, with this budget we will be able to implement policies that are in the service of the european citizens. that is the element that should animate us and that is why everyone has made the necessary compromises to reach an agreement.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome, on behalf of the commission, the fact that parliament is willing to vote on the 2011 budget, even if not all the elements of the original package – comprising a multiannual financial framework regulation, a new interinstitutional agreement and also financing of iter – have been finalised. by voting, the two arms of the budgetary authority demonstrate a sense of responsibility in avoiding a budgetary crisis at a time when europe is facing severe challenges and when we face financial instability in several member states. i have to stress the importance of parliament voting in the same way as was voted in the council, namely to avoid further conciliation. the council has taken steps to include parliament’s wishes in preparatory actions, pilots, reserves and budgetary remarks. i think this – to vote in the same way and avoid further delays in time – is a test of the will we have to deliver the budget, to deliver the means to european citizens to implement projects and the programmes that could and should be conducive to growth in jobs. in terms of commitments, the level to be voted is eur 141.8 billion, corresponding to 1.13% of gni, with, i think, major priorities of parliament taken on board relating to youth, small and medium-sized enterprises and research in headings 1a and 3b, and to palestine in heading 4. to achieve these goals, we need to mobilise the flexibility instrument to the value of eur 105 million. the payments are set at the level of eur 126.5 billion, corresponding to 1.01% of gni. that is the understanding of the budgetary constraints that the member states currently face. the level of payments is set under the condition – which is very important for the commission – that they agree on a joint statement submitted to act swiftly if needed to provide additional payment appropriations through transfers or amending budgets, in order to avoid any shortfall in payment appropriations. of course, in the case of reserves, probably to be voted, i have to reiterate the position of the commission and we are of course striving to respond to the conditions set by parliament as early as possible. it is very important to have a budget in place, so that we can carry on the discussions in the other areas without the additional complication of working under provisional twelfths. this is really very important. what remains is the financing of iter, and what is connected with the financing of iter is the international credibility of a united europe as a partner for global scientific and technological projects. if we fail to agree – and this is the last moment to agree – we lose around eur 570 million of the 2010 margins and therefore also lose the field of manoeuvre in the 2011 margin. so i think voting and agreeing iter should be a win-win situation for all of us. what remains is also the adjustment, the transposition of the lisbon treaty in the form of the multiannual financial framework and the new interinstitutional agreement. i have to praise the efforts of the budgetary rapporteur reimer böge and minister wathelet to find agreement in this very area, involving also a degree of flexibility. that is right. i can hear in parliament, in the discussion, that this is more limited than the current system, but this is a compromise that is really guaranteeing in practice the same level of flexibility that was applied until now. therefore it seems to be acceptable in this time of fiscal consolidation in the member states. we have to pursue our efforts in the transposition of the lisbon treaty via the adoption of the multiannual financial framework and the new interinstitutional agreement as otherwise, with stalemate and delay in these areas, we are in uncharted territory, not on solid ground when it relates to the legal conditions of our attempts for the future. this was the lisbon treaty tested in practice. this was not demonstrated as originally designed, as facilitating compromise and decision-making, but i hope that we can draw conclusions from the experience and, anticipating the vote in parliament, we have already started the preparations for the 2012 budget. this is a sign of our optimism. i thank all those involved in the compromise machinery over the 2011 annual budget, alain lamassoure, president buzek, minister wathelet and the rapporteurs.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i would also like to begin by thanking mrs jędrzejewska and mrs trüpel for the good, serious work they have done on the budget, and perhaps not least mrs jędrzejewska, who has had an incredibly difficult task in the new procedure. i would like to thank the belgian presidency for its excellent work and i also think that our president, mr lamassoure, has done a good job in this debate, just as the commission has tried to contribute constructively and has done so especially in the last phase. from the alde group's point of view, this is a good result for the 2011 budget that we have achieved. we have secured the necessary funds for research, energy and education, and in the foreign policy field we have found the money for palestine and the banana-producing countries without cutting other programmes. this budgetary process has shown that the multiannual framework is very tight and very inflexible. we have still not solved the problem of financing the iter fusion energy project for the coming years, as has been mentioned on several pages. we in the alde group want to find a solution to this. if we are to continue to live up to the ambitions set out in the eu's energy policy, we will also face difficult budgetary negotiations in the coming years unless we get an agreement that ensures greater flexibility. i hope that it will be possible soon, and i would like to thank reimer böge for his tireless work to secure a good solution.
for the edf group. mr president a big thank you to the commissioner for a brilliant effort and good briefings for all of us in cancún. but of course the whole climate conference was about the trade in hot air and the creation of a fund for the third world countries. that's fine by me, but who's in charge of making sure that the money is spent properly and doesn't end up in the private pockets of dictators? i would have liked to see the conference also address the limitation of the consumption of basic resources, the necessity of biodiversity for the natural regulation of the climate and population growth - a subject to which all the world's politicians turn a blind eye. because in a few years the world will have to feed about 10 billion people. how do we feed them without increasing co2 emissions and without upsetting the balance of nature and the climate of the planet? expectations for cancún were extremely low, and that is why it was a success. but now the door is open to further cooperation towards cop 17, and i am glad of that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the american writer mark twain once said: "the rumors of my death are greatly exaggerated". similarly, the rumours about the un climate process have fortunately proved to be greatly exaggerated. the climate process is alive. the cancún meeting showed that the un can indeed deliver results. but it's also clear, of course, that the big hurdle -- the big question of how much we reduce co2, and when we do it, so that we can keep the temperature rise below 2 degrees -- that's still a question to be solved. but there is hope, and there is especially hope if there is someone who is showing leadership. and that is the kind of leadership we need to show in the eu. we did it in cancún, but we must do it also when it comes to the reduction targets. we have now committed to reducing by 20% by 2020. we have also decided here in the european parliament that we believe that we should go up to 30%. when we met with delegations from other countries in cancún, when we met with ngos, and when we met with the heads of un institutions, we emphasized many times how important it was that we in this parliament showed the way and how much we hoped that we as a european community would decide as soon as possible to take the 30% reduction on our shoulders.
the commission is not the eu's target of 20% energy efficiency by 2020 could become a new lisbon target. with the current measures, it looks like we'll reach 10 or 11%. that's not good enough. we must focus on energy efficiency for economic, business, environmental and social reasons. the increased focus on energy efficiency means, first of all, that we consume less energy. this means savings, and according to the commission figures, the economic gain of reaching our 20% target is in the region of eur 1 000 per household per year. while china and the united states are now investing heavily in this area, europe is slowing down. we're running behind. in china, the state subsidizes these industries. in the united states, there are fantastic conditions for business, while the european citizens only think about how much luxury we get for a monthly salary. there is too little focus on innovation and on creating results. from a policy perspective, we need to focus on some areas that can make us leave the world a better place than when we took it over - areas that also provide a great economic return, create new jobs and improve our competitiveness. energy efficiency also has the side benefit of providing jobs for europe's small and medium-sized enterprises. the three main pillars i see in the eu's energy efficiency policy are the national action plans, product policy and buildings. these are three very different policies, and if we start with the national action plans, they have not proved very effective, but they have great potential. there is therefore a need to streamline them and allow the commission to use them actively as a tool. the commission will be able to reject the action plans if they are not ambitious enough. it will mean transparency for the citizens. it is of the utmost importance, however, that we maintain the independence of the countries and allow them to decide for themselves how they will use their powers. in some countries, the potential for energy savings in buildings is thus greater than in others, while others are likely to focus on increased energy savings at the production level. the second pillar is product policy, which covers both standards and labelling. standards are by far the more important of the two, and it is very easy to show the size of the savings that will be made by following standards, and this in turn increases innovation. the building policy is also important. the objectives are set in relation to the 2050 roadmap. buildings are at the heart of energy and climate policy, and 40% of our energy consumption comes from our buildings. it is an area where savings can be made which will be reflected in the final accounts. i am convinced that these three areas will provide an important foundation for competitiveness and innovation for many years to come. the report therefore recommends a financial instrument to target investment in projects relating to energy efficiency. there are models in some european countries where investments are geared many times over, and the question is whether the eu should not also organise its finances in this way. i hope that parliament will agree to adopt the report by a large political majority, as this is an important area - a very important area for europe and for our businesses.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i should like to begin by thanking mr bendt bendtsen and the other rapporteurs for their fruitful cooperation on this report. we have reached agreement on many areas - not least the ambition to reap the low-hanging fruit of boosting energy efficiency. but there have also been disagreements. we are not in agreement on setting ambitious and binding targets for energy efficiency. it is absolutely essential to me that we set ourselves a target of at least 20% energy efficiency. this will be the way forward to a green and sustainable economy, which can create a million new jobs in europe. but it is absolutely essential that these energy efficiency improvements become binding on the member states, since we can see how the eu has recommendations and objectives in a wide range of areas that never become reality because they are not binding. at the same time, we have seen that binding targets work. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we know that this is clearly the cheapest way of reducing co2 emissions, guaranteeing security of supply and at the same time guaranteeing consumers a lower heating bill - and in fact lower heating bill costs - and that this will be a step forward for the many europeans who are affected by what we might call energy poverty. energy poverty affects people when a relatively large part of their income is spent on heating their homes. today, there are neither common definitions of energy poverty nor the right policy measures to reduce it. the consequences of energy poverty are fatal. it worsens the health and general living conditions of the low-income groups. we must therefore offer cheap loans for investments in energy efficiency in private homes and we must also use the structural funds for this purpose. i look forward to the vote tomorrow and hope that we can get a large majority behind the report and a stronger effort to combat energy poverty.
the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. if people are sitting and listening to this, it might sound like there's a lot of disagreement about energy efficiency. binding targets or not, energy efficiency is something we have to deal with. these are things we have to do something about. i would point out that although there has been a wide-ranging debate on this subject binding objectives the rapporteurs have also discussed and agreed that it is important that we ensure compliance with the existing eu legislation in this area. we've legislated on a lot of things. it is important that the law is respected. it is important that the legislation is implemented. it is important that we do something about urban development, buildings, the use of new energy technologies and a better product policy. transport is also something we have to deal with, and last but not least it is important to have many of these energy measures financed in the future. from my seat there are still plenty of low-hanging fruit that we have the opportunity to pick down - that is, opportunities to increase energy efficiency in europe. why is this so important? i do not need to repeat what my colleague krišjānis kariņš from latvia said in this connection, namely that europe is paying a lot of money both to the middle east and to russia. couldn't that money be better spent in europe? and that's not all. there is no doubt that if europe is to be a 'first mover' in this area, we need to invest. and the investment will pay off in terms of more employment, more innovative companies and new jobs - not least jobs for our small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. that said, i'd like to thank everyone who's been involved. i thank the commissioner and the departments concerned. i would like to say that you have all been very cooperative and i would like to thank my own group, which has shown great confidence and supported me throughout the work on the report. i would also like to thank the shadows for a really good cooperation, where they have also opposed me. what is important, however, is that, having come this far, a clear signal is sent from this parliament to the commission as to the way forward for energy efficiency in the future.
for the edf group. madam president, when the treaty of lisbon came into force a year ago, unprecedented power was transferred to the eu institutions, and we have seen over the past year how the european parliament in particular has been able to exploit the situation to extract enormous amounts of power from the member states. there were two bright spots when the treaty of lisbon came into force. one of the highlights is the citizens' initiative. that is also why i - both on behalf of my party in denmark and on behalf of the group here in the european parliament - have entered into negotiations to ensure that the citizens' initiative is put into place as a small point of light in an otherwise very dark and very federal europe. there have been areas where we have disagreed. several rapporteurs have already mentioned that some want to extend a citizens' initiative to include people who are not citizens, that some want to decide what the voting age should be in other member states, etc. - something we have not been able to agree on. but the framework now agreed contains positive elements, after all, and that is why my group, in the spirit of democracy and in order to promote the positive elements, after all, contained in the lisbon treaty, will also support this initiative.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the left has voted for the citizens' initiative today because it promotes the participation of citizens and makes the eu much more accessible. we have made sure that parliament has laid down uniform conditions for making the citizens' initiative available in all member states and for making it easy to use. but citizens must come from at least one quarter of the member states; the number of citizens from each member state must be at least equal to the number of members of the european parliament for each member state multiplied by a factor of 750, and citizens must be of an age which gives them the right to vote in the european parliament. we believe that these conditions are important in order to ensure that the citizens' initiative also acquires the validity that is necessary for it to be seen as a serious contribution to the development of democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. just to add to what has already been said about the support of the venstre: as i said, this is an extremely important initiative. it is also an experiment which we must - and i urge you to do so - follow very closely, making sure that the three-year period now set aside for this initiative is actually followed up, and we shall see whether it is also a genuine citizens' initiative or whether it is - if i may say so - being used for other purposes. it is important for the success - the success we all hope for - of the initiative that it is actually citizens who take the initiative. and i should also like to express my personal hope that there will be some forward-looking, constructive and positive issues that the citizens will raise about the european project, so that it does not end up being the eternal 'no' side, which always takes patent on the use of such initiatives.
mr president, we have some interesting aggression from our italian colleague up here. last week a lot of people travelled a long way to cancún, but they did not move far in the fight against climate change. with today’s votes on energy efficiency, we actually took a step forward. as this report rightly points out, energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and fastest way to reduce co2 emissions. yet the measures being undertaken in the member states are far from enough. on the basis of our current efforts, we will only make it half way to 20% by 2020. that is why we need the binding target on energy efficiency. this report contains many of the solutions. now they need to be implemented. i would like to thank mr bendtsen and congratulate him on his excellent work on this report.
