mr president, first of all i would like to express my condolences and solidarity with the victims of the earthquake in haiti. this devastating earthquake, which comes after the four hurricanes last year, should not make us forget the situation that this country was already suffering before the earthquake, with 80% of the population living in poverty. with the highest infant mortality rate in america, poverty, violence and exodus were already part of the daily lives of much of the haitian population. in this context it is essential not only to send humanitarian aid but also to ensure that, when haiti is no longer covered, the effort continues and that haiti develops in a sustainable, coordinated and balanced way.
what would you think, lords, if police officers accompanied by the cameras of the main television stations in the country broadcast your arrest live? how would they feel if they were accused of belonging to an armed gang, arrested, held incommunicado for five days, had their assets blocked and were thrown in jail for a period of up to a year and a half for being managers of the only newspaper then published in basque and which ended up being closed without a trial? in addition, most of the detainees have reported that they were tortured. but how would you feel if seven years later, despite the prosecutor's request to dismiss the case for lack of evidence, you were still awaiting trial? how about there's another part of the case, the economic case, pending another trial? this is the situation in which ten people, most of them journalists, have been living since the spanish national court decided, in february 2003, to close egunkaria without a trial. after this tour, a trial is taking place in these weeks which, given the time elapsed and the circumstances described, is anything but fair to the accused and their rights.
mr president, just a few days ago two eta commandos were arrested by the french, portuguese and spanish police. they were two commandos who were going to commit terrorist attacks in spain with explosives. i would like to make a public statement here of our gratitude to all the victims of terrorism in spain for the police cooperation of portugal and france in this important event. because this is also doing europe. i would remind the honourable member that in spain there have been almost a thousand deaths as a result of terrorist action by eta and that there is no reason, neither political nor moral, no reason that justifies the act of terrorism. many thanks to france and portugal for their cooperation in the fight against eta.
the next item is the statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, vice-president of the commission, mrs ashton, on the earthquake in haiti. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr de gucht, for his excellent report, and also for the fact that the commission has been able to take part in the debate on the subject.
first of all, my condolences and solidarity with the people of haiti, so hard hit by this catastrophe. we, the european union, are not a military power. we don't want to be either. but we are a force in the world because of our social model. and we are a power, and we want to be a power, because of our development cooperation and our humanitarian aid. today, haiti, the catastrophe that has occurred in this country, poses a challenge to the new institutions that have emerged from the lisbon treaty. now is the time for humanitarian aid, but very soon there will be the time for reconstruction, for boosting development and for aid to governance, to institutional capacity. and we have to respond with one voice to what the people of haiti expect of us. we must respond by aligning the functions of the high representative with those of the commissioners for development and humanitarian aid. why would you do that? why do we all act together? to coordinate the aid of the countries better, to be more effective in our aid, to have a european voice identifiable in the world and to better serve what the world is expecting from us at this moment: support for this humanitarian crisis and development boost, today in haiti, tomorrow in any catastrophe, the day after tomorrow in all parts of the world.
mr president, i would like to stress the importance of the european union taking the lead not only in immediate emergency humanitarian aid but also in long-term cooperation for the reconstruction of the country, with the local authorities, with the government of haiti, which is a state already fragile enough to be further weakened by replacing its authorities with international organizations, and also with local non-governmental organizations. and i want to acknowledge the rapid response of the spanish presidency, both in coordinating aid and in making available to the european union the means of aid that spain already had in the country and in the region, as the first european donor of aid, not only in latin america but also in haiti specifically.
i would like to take a few moments to congratulate the high representative, the council, the commission and the rotating presidency of the european union on their speed, coordination and effort from the outset. they may not have had the media echo that 10,000 us marines can have on their arrival on the island, but everything has developed, in my opinion - and i have a long experience - very quickly and very effectively. i would like to mention one fact which has not been mentioned in the whole debate: of the people who were rescued alive in the first seventy-eight hours from the rubble, 50% were rescued by european and member state services.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, this is an important opportunity to raise the situation in iran. the european union wants normal relations with iran, and our efforts on the nuclear issue are part of that. in this context, i will continue, in my capacity as high representative, the role of my predecessor, javier solana, in the international talks with iran. iran is an important country with a deep history and rich culture, and a remarkably talented population. the films and books coming out of iran are impressive, the level of education of women is high, there is a capacity for public debate and the young population is vibrant and active. in many ways, iranian society has the hallmarks and the capacity of a free society. the threat to the society has been reflected in the turmoil that followed what many in iran saw as a fraudulent election last year. that, of course, is a matter for the iranians. our concern is that international norms and standards on civil and political rights must be respected. in this respect, i am deeply concerned over the reports of violent suppression of demonstrations and arbitrary detentions in tehran and other iranian cities during the recent ashura commemorations at the end of december. the use of violence against demonstrators seeking to exercise their freedom of expression and rights of assembly is not acceptable. these are universal human rights that must be respected and those detained for peacefully exercising those rights should be released. i also note with deep concern that many arrests seem to have targeted human rights defenders and journalists, and that many detained are denied access to legal representation and contact with their families. iran must live up to its international obligations and treat detained persons in accordance with international human rights standards. another recent issue is the detention of another 12 members of the baha’i religious community. these people must be assured a just, open and fair trial in accordance with international standards. the eu has spared no opportunity to ask the iranian government to respect those international obligations which they freely and voluntarily adhered to. we issue public statements and use other diplomatic means. we work through the united nations: the general assembly adopted a resolution condemning the situation only last month. we will make full use of the upcoming review of iran which will be held at the un human rights council in geneva in early february. on the nuclear issue, we regret that tehran has not followed up on the last meeting between javier solana and jalili, the chief negotiator, on 1 october in geneva. we all assessed that the meeting was positive. but, in effect, iran has now rejected a draft agreement proposed by the iaea and has been refusing to pursue talks on the nuclear issue. the eu and its negotiating partners are all committed to finding a diplomatic solution to the iranian nuclear issue, and to that end we must continue to implement the dual-track approach. we need a serious engagement in meaningful talks from tehran’s side. our objective remains to build confidence that the nuclear programme is exclusively for peaceful purposes. the confidence deficit was further increased by the revelation that iran has been building another enrichment facility without informing the iaea in due time. in addition, iran continues not to cooperate fully with the iaea and not to respect its international obligations. it is vital that the eu and the international community stand united behind the negotiating effort, including by supporting that effort through appropriate measures. the widest possible unity is key if we are to achieve our objective. if iran sets out on a more constructive course on the nuclear issue and on regional stability in general, it could play an important role in the middle east and gulf region, which would reflect its rightful place and proud history. in conclusion, the challenges posed by iran weigh very heavy in my portfolio. this is a country which has enormous potential – and our readiness to engage with iran constructively has been made over and over. i shall continue to make that case. i sincerely hope that, during the time of my mandate, i will return to this house with a more positive picture of relations with iran.
on behalf of the ppe group mrs ashton, you are right to be concerned, because the situation in afghanistan is very serious, especially from the point of view of human rights, especially civil rights and political freedoms, where there is a truly incredible degradation: arbitrary violence, mass arrests of opposition members, assassinations, executions, the impossibility of carrying out the activities of non-governmental organizations, the impossibility of exercising freedom of the press, and even the fact that a delegation from the european parliament has been banned from entering. mr president, under the present circumstances, i wonder if it is worth visiting the country at this time. and, on the nuclear table, mrs ashton, you have said it very clearly and also very forcefully: iran continues to produce enriched uranium, despite the warnings of the international community. it has rejected the outstretched hand proposed to it by president obama and it has rejected the last plan proposed by the six, which involved russia and france. the question, mrs ashton, is very simple: do you think we have had enough of patience with this country? do you think we should now move on to more forceful measures, or do you think that complacency is the best way of negotiating with the iranian regime? i want to tell you that i sincerely appreciate your statement in favour of the defence of human rights in that country. the violations are very serious and i believe, mr president, that this parliament must express its uncompromising condemnation - and i hope it can do so by adopting the corresponding resolution - on the human rights situation in this country. and it must continue to stand firm, very firm, in the inescapable defense of freedom.
my first speech in this parliament, in june last year, was on iran, following a new round of executions. i therefore called for the activation of all the instruments available to the european union for the protection of human rights. today we find that the repression continues against the baha'i religious minority, against homosexuals - and i want to call especially for the release of homosexuals who have been arrested and, in several cases, sentenced to death - against the opposition - with more than 2,500 opponents imprisoned - against freedom of the press - on monday the farhang-e-ashti newspaper was closed for publishing a statement by the opposition leader musavi - and against the kurdish minority. iran, however, is on the european agenda as a major challenge, not only nuclear, for which the international community is already mobilized, but because iran has a capacity to influence virtually all areas in which work is being done to find a peaceful and diplomatic solution in the middle east, as well as in iraq and afghanistan. iran is squandering, by means of repression, the opportunity to normalize its foreign relations, to be welcomed into the community of nations and to play a constructive role in international relations. this is the situation that we socialists would like to see, but it can only be achieved if iran fulfils its international commitments, starting with the international covenant on civil and political rights, within which political parties, trade unions, non-governmental organizations, the right of association, freedom of expression, etc. must be recognized. the support and solidarity of the european union, which i am asking for from here, for those who demand more rights and for those who are being retaliated against by the regime should not be confused with any kind of western interference, but with the will of iran to meet the minimum conditions for negotiating with the rest of the world.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. − madam president, we know the reason why yemen is on our agenda today. we traced the detroit bomber’s trail from the united states to europe, to africa and yemen. thus we were reminded, once again, that our own security is at risk if we do not help countries, like yemen, who are struggling to meet multiple challenges at the same time. terrorism is the immediate focus but is only one of an interlinked set of challenges. there is instability in the north, fuelled by armed conflict with the houthi rebels. there is conflict over land and water rights and longstanding tensions with the southern region, which has felt marginalised since unification in 1991. the government has so far been able to maintain overall stability but, as oil revenues have dwindled, the state is struggling to maintain control over parts of the national territory. to this we can add piracy in the gulf of aden, smuggling, migration and people-trafficking from the horn of africa and, now, a rise in jihadist terrorism. yemen has substantial population growth and an increasingly discontented young population. an inclusive internal political consensus on the way forward remains elusive. amidst all this one thing is clear: none of us can afford a zone of near-lawlessness stretching from the horn of africa to afghanistan. we would pay the price ourselves. over the last 18 months, the european union has highlighted yemen as a priority case in its counter-terrorism strategy and its comprehensive approach to state-building and development. the council adopted extensive conclusions on yemen in october. we are now seeking to rally all our key players around the strategy. the uk initiative to organise a high-level meeting with and on yemen next week could, therefore, not be more timely. a key focus of the meeting will be security. a significant package is now being prepared to help boost government efforts: training and equipment for law enforcement, a better legal framework and criminal justice system, work on anti-radicalisation and conflict prevention. this will come on top of eur 11 million allocated, in the commission’s development programme, to police training and juvenile justice in the last two years. the establishment of al-qa’ida in yemen is a symptom of deeper problems. the linkage between economic, political, social and security challenges are crucial. this is why we need a comprehensive approach. it is also vital that the yemeni state boosts its capacity to meet the needs of people throughout the country. the eu will propose to increase by one third its development funds foreseen for the period 2011-13. humanitarian aid from echo will continue in 2010. we continuously raise with the government the problems of access to the many displaced people. no amount of aid, however, can substitute for commitment and action by the government itself. president saleh’s stated commitment to national dialogue amongst all relevant actors has the potential to build a new national consensus, if all actors are included and their interests are taken into account. the international community should lend sustained support to this dialogue. it is the only sustainable way forward. last, but certainly not least, key regional players need to be engaged in the common effort to work with yemen – chief amongst these is saudi arabia. the london meeting offers an invaluable chance to include the saudis, the united states and others in a meaningful international dialogue on, and with, yemen. i look forward to our debates.
on behalf of the ppe group after the formidable coup d'état that the taliban carried out yesterday in afghanistan, where, let us remember, there are 100,000 soldiers fighting for freedom, and the failed bombing in detroit this christmas, i think, mrs ashton, that it is legitimate to ask whether the terror is stronger today than when freedom was attacked by barbarism by bringing down the twin towers in new york. we have just had a debate on iran, we are seeing what is happening in afghanistan, in pakistan, in the middle east, in somalia and even in the heart of our continent with the attacks in madrid and london. and the question we have to ask ourselves -- we all have to draw conclusions from these facts -- is whether we're doing it right. it is true that there is a fact on the record, madam president, which is constituted by the fact that today we have armies which have no apparent enemies and enemies which have no army. but president obama has woken up quickly after the failed bombing in detroit and general petraeus has visited yemen for the third time in a very short time; we see that the united states has mobilized significant economic aid and developed a policy that is producing results. you have just told us, mrs ashton, about the concrete measures which the european union intends to take and you have told us about additional amounts to the 11 million euro. the united states has gone from $67 million in 2009 to $167 million in 2010. i would therefore like to ask you, mrs ashton, whether you think that, in the face of the terrorist phenomenon, the notions of foreign policy, security, defence, cooperation and development aid, trade, and i would even say culture or civilization, are notions which are intermingled with each other and which must be reflected in the common awareness that, in the face of the dangers and threats which affect us all equally, the response should also be that of all equally. you have spoken of coordination with the united states, but could you state in what terms this cooperation, which is very important and very necessary, is being implemented?
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mrs ashton, allow me not to share your optimism. it's good to be optimistic, but with iraq, in the situation we have, we can't be optimistic. the proof is that the european commission has decided not to send observers because security is not guaranteed. i think that decision speaks for itself. it is clear that, as far as iraq is concerned - it is true that you do not want to talk about the past, but you are obliged to talk about the past - we are faced with a devastated country, with more than a million dead and four million displaced by an illegitimate, unjust and based on lies war. there were no weapons of mass destruction and no connection between saddam hussein and al qaeda. this is the pure reality. what was there was an interest of the american oil companies to take control of the oil in iraq. this is the pure reality. and that reality, logically, cannot have a continuity in the presence of the occupation forces, which is what distorts everything. i am not surprised that the decision to ban secular parties could lead to a real civil confrontation at this time. there are some european embassies that do not rule out a military coup, a military coup of their own in iraq. so the scenario is very negative. i would ask you to work quickly to ensure that the occupying forces withdraw as soon as possible. this is the fact that distorts the whole reality of iraq and that therefore the united nations should take control and allow a transition that guarantees the return to normalcy of something that should never have been lost, such as international law.
i would like to welcome the spanish presidency and, at the same time, to stress that this initiative is the first initiative on procedural rights, which has been a subject we have been discussing and which had been left out of the swedish presidency. this initiative proposal is already before parliament and there has already been a first debate. that is why we think the question is relevant, it remains relevant, because of the importance of this issue. it is true that this is an area that can be improved and i hope that we can make progress in the course of the procedure. it is true, as mr barrot has said, that the commission's proposal was more ambitious and therefore we in parliament will have to improve this text, which is also a text of long standing, because parliament and the commission have already been discussing it, with the resistance of the member states. the swedish presidency, with the road map, tried to unblock the issue, but despite this, the situation remains difficult for the member states. it is clear that now, after the treaty of lisbon, the situation has changed, because parliament decides and therefore we believe that the commission and the council must take up these procedural rights in a new scenario, which is what we are now contemplating. we would like these procedural rights to be included in a package. it is not possible to recognise the right to translation without recognising the right to legal aid or the right to information. the commission's plans to introduce these rights year by year should therefore be speeded up, in our view, to cover them as soon as possible. it is true that anti-terrorism legislation breaks down safeguards, but if we want to build an area of justice and freedom, we must have confidence in our values and transmit them to the european project.
according to a united nations report, in 2009, around 270 000 people were victims of human trafficking in the european union. with these figures in hand, it is necessary that the action of the european union should be based primarily on the protection of victims, with special attention to the situation of women and children, who are the most vulnerable. we cannot continue to be indifferent to this theatre, to this spectacle of sexual exploitation that is unfolding before our eyes. i therefore fully support the request of this parliament that assistance to victims be unconditional and that more forceful measures and harsher penalties be adopted, as mr barrot has just told us. that said, i would ask the spanish presidency, the european commission and the council to use all the european legislation in their hands, both existing and future, to protect the victims of human trafficking. i believe that the proposal for a european order for the protection of victims, which i personally requested from the spanish presidency during the discussions on the stockholm programme and which has finally come to light, will be an effective instrument in the fight against these crimes. i hope that the spanish presidency will make a firm commitment - as we have already seen - to this order, so that it will provide victims with special protection measures which will be effective throughout the european union. i hope that those of us who have the responsibility to act on the most serious problems of our society will give a real and concrete response to this very serious problem of human trafficking and that we will not be satisfied with just good words. we really owe it to all the victims.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. welcome to the club, mr. shoemaker. unfortunately for my group, your programme fails to address the fundamental issue. the fundamental thing for us in this presidency would have been a re-formulation of the current economic policy, public intervention in the economy and, of course, market regulation with progressive fiscal policies. the recession in spain and europe, and unemployment rates not seen since the 1930s, are the consequence of failure to intervene in the market; they are the consequence of failure to intervene in strategic sectors of production, including the financial sector. so, from that perspective, unfortunately, everything that your programme offers introduces nothing new. the income from labour is punished and the income from capital is favoured, because there is no such harmonisation in tax policies, and, in the context of the liberalisation of services, the european social model is being dismantled. that is why articles 43 and 49 of the treaty protect a model which privileges the market and market freedom over the rights of workers and there are already judgments - as you know - of the european court of justice which legalise social dumping. this is the real reality. that is why, unfortunately, your programme, in this part - which is substantial for us - does not change, alter or introduce anything new. in other words, it contradicts the slogan you have used, which the spanish presidency has used: 'innovating europe'. there is no innovation at this particular point. there is continuity. we are not in favour of the continuity of the european model, but we are in favour of the continuity of the european model. in foreign policy, we don't share the view that we need to increase military capabilities. we are pained by the images of the catastrophe in haiti, with the deployment of combat helicopters and marines. they're hurting us! that's not what catastrophes like haiti need. we need civil protection. we need doctors, architects and people to ease the pain of the drama. finally, the summit with morocco, mr. zapatero. we do not share advanced status with morocco as long as the saharawi people are not allowed to exercise their right to self-determination and as long as this people are permanently persecuted, i repeat, permanently persecuted, by the moroccan authorities. we didn't share that summit. we believe that a european summit for the right of self-determination of the saharawi people would be necessary. and with the state of israel, in the neighbourhood policy, we must be much more demanding and enforce article 2 of that association agreement in the neighbourhood policy, because it systematically breaches international law.
i am pleased to be here in this very special place with the president of the spanish government, a person whom i have greatly admired since he was a good law student. i believe that the rotating presidency of the european union has put my country in the best position to demonstrate, once again, that spain wants to play a decisive role in europe. for spaniards, entering europe - as the president has said before - was a dream during the long years of dictatorship. we are therefore particularly pleased to be here and we enjoy it, because we know, ladies and gentlemen, that this union of states which we represent here is the only answer to the problems facing the world, problems for which the traditional states are no longer able to find effective solutions. it is very important that europe finds its place by defining and defining itself and defending the values it has been able to create in the incubator of revolutions, in the books written by its lucid minds and in the sobs of its peoples. and these values are freedom, the rule of reason, secularism and solidarity. so this historic opportunity, mr president, to put the treaty of lisbon into effect, i know you want to seize it. i agree with the objectives he has set out, although some of them are vague and, moreover, fail to distinguish between the accessory and the main. one of them, the one on climate change, makes me think that the european policy launched by the commission, even though it failed in copenhagen, is the right one, because the important thing is that the waste of so many nations must end, because billions of people on the planet do not have to put up with the selfishness of rich societies. on the other hand, i would place more emphasis on the defence of human rights in the world. when the european union is accused of being a bureaucratic organisation without a soul, it is forgotten that its soul is precisely our charter of fundamental rights. in this connection, i think that the spanish presidency should be involved in the following matters: not to convene the moroccan summit as long as morocco does not commit itself to respecting the united nations resolutions on the sahara, a united nations which you have invoked on other occasions. in cuba and iran, they must promote joint action to recognise the organisations which oppose the governments, in the terms of the debate which took place yesterday in this parliament. if rights are our soul - the european soul - i dare to remind you to put all the emphasis you have rightly put in your speech on the fact that the backbone of europe is a common energy policy. without it everything comes to a standstill and even international politics itself risks vanishing like smoke. finally, i would remind you not to forget your commitment to grant the cities of ceuta and melilla a status similar to that of the outermost regions. i would like to conclude by wishing you, mr president zapatero, my dear friend josé luis, every success for the sake of that strong and federal europe in which you and i believe.
mr president of the spanish government, i want to tell you that we are not living in another period, we are not living in any other time in and for the european union. it is true - as you have said, as president daul has said - that the european union, the europeans, know that their main concern is the crisis, but we must remember here today that, before this economic crisis, the europeans, in different electoral consultations and with a low voter turnout, have also shown symptoms of a growing process of disinterest and alienation from the european institutions. the crisis of values has therefore manifested itself before and also in the project of european integration. i say this because, given the logical impetus that the treaty of lisbon will undoubtedly give, we have the first opportunity to close the gap between the people and the european institutions. we are therefore living - or at least we should be living - in a period of transition and change, to which you have referred, but i would like to say that the first challenge we face is to find that turning point in the process of europeans' alienation from european policies. transitions are always an opportunity - and a risk - but i would of course encourage you to keep your ideas clear, to keep them small and to ensure that they can be communicated to all europeans. i would therefore like to say that a change of attitude in all the european institutions, in all of us, in national governments and parliaments, in politicians, is undoubtedly much more important than the treaty of lisbon itself, because the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is not a sufficient condition for us to be able to speak of transition and change in the european union and for us to be able to speak of ambition in the european project. i would therefore like to say that the first ambition is to be understood more by the europeans, because they do not understand us. our language is unintelligible and sometimes incomprehensible, and that is why we must be able to say that this is a problem in itself and a challenge in itself, so that we can approach the europeans. we need to devote much more time, much more political energy, much more political momentum to this, so that the europeans understand us. ladies and gentlemen, all presidencies, as a result of the treaty of lisbon, will be different, different, more demanding, and will require more sacrifice and more generosity from us than ever before. i would therefore like to say that it is a great pleasure for me to say here today that the spanish people's party has supported the objectives of the spanish government in the european presidency, given the momentous moment the european union is living. now, the question is whether we apply it in the right direction. and i will tell you what should not be the good thermometer of the future spanish presidency. the thermometer is not going to be the number of dates we have. the thermometer of a good presidency is not the conventional speeches, the fine words or the commonplace. the thermometer will be the results, the realities, our ability to change attitudes - from all the european institutions - our ability to prioritise the real problems facing europeans. that is the only way we can really get closer to the european people as a whole. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the socialist delegation in this european parliament, which, as you have recalled, is the european parliament with the largest representation and the most democratically strengthened in the history of the european union, i join in the warm welcome to the spanish presidency of the european union and express my best wishes for its success at a crucial moment. crucial because the treaty of lisbon has finally come into force; crucial because the new institutions, the new commission, the permanent presidency of the council and the high representative of the european union have been set up; but crucial above all because it provides an opportunity to do what needs to be done with the treaty of lisbon and the new institutions, which is to respond to the most serious, the most severe crisis we have known in 80 years, a crisis with serious economic, financial but also social impact. for ten years the citizens of europe have been participating in an institutional debate and on 7 june they elected this parliament, which represents 500 million people who are watching us, who are waiting for us and who are demanding answers from us, answers so that there is coordination and supervision wherever there has been misgovernment and so that, in the face of opacity and greed, there is a restoration of the ethic of responsibility. so that we can come out of the crisis better, but true to our model. i therefore believe that the spanish presidency is right to reaffirm, first of all, values: the importance of equality. because the european union is built on equality, equality before the law, but also equality as the backbone of a social model, the fight against exclusion, against discrimination, the protection of the weakest, the commitment to combat gender violence and the commitment to the european protection order. and equality also as a lever for the future in innovation, in education and training, which have always been the horizon of openness, of new opportunities for those who do not have them now. but, in addition, he is right about the content, and he has referred to the importance of the 20-20 strategy, which recognises that the lisbon strategy has not worked and that we are therefore neither happy nor satisfied and that we must focus on more innovation and better energy. but also, the european external action service, to make a difference in haiti and the action plan of the area of freedom, justice and security. if i may say so, it is also right in the attitude and courage to promote change in the face of national prejudices and in the face of decline or resignation... (the president cut the speaker off)
president of the rotating presidency, mr zapatero, i sincerely wish you luck and success because this will be good for europe and its citizens. the crisis needs to think globally and act locally, but it needs to involve everyone. take advantage of local and regional success models, those based on the real economy, public-private partnerships and proximity to people. integrate the regions, build decision-making processes with them. this is also the application of the treaty of lisbon, which for the first time gives them a role. the commission's programme foresees the regions and does not explain how it will implement the subsidiarity protocol. it risks, innovates, but gains credibility, because around here they don't believe what it says, after spain has reduced its budgets on innovation. i'm glad you're committed to gender equality, but your program is written in masculine language, it doesn't even take into account the gender perspective in the language. doesn't that sound like a bad symptom? in relation to the basque country, work for peace, support the productive economy, speed up the basque y and integrate our tax system, our police and our language into the european institutions. europe is built by bringing together people, knowledge, will and political realities. that is parliament, to which i say that you have sent your programme and timetable late and badly and that it deserves a respect which i missed even at the official opening on 8 january.
mr. president, welcome to the club. i am afraid that your presidency, however, runs the risk of being seen as a political crocodile, that is to say, with a big mouth that expresses big ideas, but then has no ears to listen. i would like nothing more, i promise you, than to be able to congratulate you in six months' time for having put in place measures to get us out of the crisis - which means, in effect, greater and better economic governance - and for having also reoriented the european union from a social, ecological and democratic point of view. but today i must confess my concern that, in the presidency's programme, the intentions on the stimulus plans, for example, are uncertain and the references to the economic governance of the union are very marginal. in addition, to tackle a real tax reform, which includes european resources for social policy and which clearly has a green, ecological dimension, it must be made very clear that those who pollute must pay, and that those who act fraudulently and irresponsibly must also pay, whether they are banks, multinationals or tax evaders. but i also see a timidity in their proposals and too many concessions to those who so brazenly mortgage our present and our social and environmental future. on the other hand, it is true that many summits are planned during your presidency, whether with latin america or the mediterranean, but i would also like to express my concern here about two aspects. the first is its decision to review universal jurisdiction, since it weakens us in the fight against genocide and universal criminals, whether they be from israel, china or guatemala; and the second is that, in cases such as the sahara or colombia, for example, among many others, trade agreements take precedence over the defence of human rights. i would like to end, however, by congratulating you and supporting you on a very specific issue, that of equality between men and women. i do give you credibility, i see potential in you, i believe you can do a fundamental job, because you have earned it in many ways. i hope and trust - and you will have the support of this house to continue to do so - that you will continue to set an example for many other countries which are far behind in this matter.
mr zapatero, commissioner joaquín almunia appeared before the committee on economic and monetary affairs in this parliament last september. after reporting on the recovery of german exports and the growth of french consumption, mr almunia said that the crisis would be much longer and much deeper in spain. the european commission, in fact, foresees a continuing rise in unemployment and a sharp deterioration in public accounts in spain in the coming years, and this year we are very likely to see a reduction in bank credit to households and businesses. i asked commissioner almunia in september why europe was already recovering and why spain would continue to fall into the pit of crisis and he literally replied 'because the spanish government is not making the reforms that you and i share'. the crisis is global, but the solutions are local. many european countries recognized the crisis quickly, acted quickly and are already recovering. you have wasted two years and still have no concrete solutions. mr zapatero, you have broken the good tradition of the psoe in europe. felipe gonzález had the european reformist social democracies as his reference, but you are much closer to the south american revolutionary populisms. reforms move people further than revolutions, and in this respect europe is a model of good practice. come here with humility and learn, don't want to lecture. two specific questions: when will we be able to speak catalan in this house? and finally, when will the spanish state abrogate the international treaties which prohibit flights from 23 countries to barcelona airport?
good morning, mr. rodriguez zapatero. how are you? a couple of years ago you said that spain had overtaken italy in per capita output and that it would soon overtake france. however, according to international rating agencies, spain currently leads the so-called poverty index in the european union, with 20% unemployment and a deficit of 78 billion euros. what happened, mr. shoemaker? will his economic prescriptions for europe be the same as those he has applied in spain? a deficit which, moreover, is not used to build large communications infrastructures. when will the citizens of europe be able to benefit from a freight railway linking the north and south of the continent, passing along the mediterranean coast? a deficit that is not used to promote the change of the production model. what confidence can we europeans have in your willingness to implement the european digital agenda when you have just cut the research budget in half? and finally, in contrast to its european partners represented here, spain continues to refuse to recognize kosovo. how long will they continue to abuse the patience of the international community by refusing to accept referenda on self-determination as a democratic expression of the will of the peoples?
dear president zapatero, welcome, good luck and thank you for your speech. thank you, especially, for that reference to the european social pact. finally, someone in the council understands that europe cannot be built without the workers, much less against the workers. finally, someone in the council is beginning to understand that we have a very serious problem, with millions of people who are disillusioned, with workers' organizations who feel themselves absent from the process of european construction, who only look at business, who have lost political ambitions and who have few social ambitions. two files have poisoned this relationship with parliament and the trade union movement: the displacement of workers across europe, which is a threat to national social models, and the working time directive, which threatens historic achievements and the reconciliation of work and professional life. mr. president, you said six months of change. change the procedures, change the focus. you cannot change everything, but you can start a new path, a path that europe needs, because europe needs workers and it will not be possible to build only an economic europe, but a political europe and a social europe.
i am informed that a delegation from the national assembly of the republic of korea is in the official gallery, and we warmly welcome them. we welcome them and their president, mr lee kang rae, to the 12th interparliamentary meeting between our parliament and the parliament of your country. the european parliament has always supported peace and stability and the defence of human rights on the korean peninsula. we naturally welcome the republic of korea's increasingly active role on the international stage and wish it well when it holds the presidency of the g20 this year. we are aware of the ambition of the comprehensive association agreement between the republic of korea and the european union which will soon enter the ratification process. we therefore congratulate our korean colleagues. we wish you a successful visit and, above all, the privilege of following such a fundamental debate as is taking place in our house at this moment.
ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the debate on the presentation of the programme of the spanish presidency.
mr zapatero, for a spaniard like myself, it is an honour to welcome you here as president-in-office of the european union. there are many expectations and many challenges for this period and we certainly cannot disappoint the expectations that have been created. let the public see that our renewed institutions are a tool capable of providing solutions to real problems. you know that the programme put forward by the honourable member is shared by us. that for the spanish people's party this is a matter of state and that we will stand behind the honourable member in all that we see as being in the common interests of europe and which is important for spain. it is an ambitious programme and one which hopefully will be filled with content. i would like people to see in this album of the spanish presidency - which will certainly be colourful and varied - a milestone on real problems affecting them in each event. the crisis is hitting economies and unemployment seems like the fifth horse of the apocalypse. you have had the honesty to acknowledge that 20% of the unemployed are in spain, but that does not make you incapable. what i believe is that it forces us to produce, together, a solution to a problem that we really have to solve together. it's a real problem, you know. the time available does not allow me to say much, mr president. but i do want to tell you that spain has many challenges ahead of it, that i have confidence in spain's capacity as a nation and that i want to believe, and i am sure, that you will be up to the standards of our country. we cannot disappoint these expectations at this time in europe. on the other hand, the globalised world - and this has been addressed intelligently - is giving rise to new centres of power and the european union needs to play a more active and coherent role in defending its values and interests. otherwise, we risk being irrelevant. finally, mr president, we spaniards cannot accept that anyone should deny us the ability to make proposals. we have that legitimacy. we must also have the humility to accept those advice that don quixote gave to sancho when he recommended humility in the dream of the government of the island barataria. (the president cut the speaker off)
i wanted to tell you with all sincerity, mr president, that you have made a magnificent presentation of what the spanish presidency will be like. i think that was an extraordinary speech. i wanted to ask you about latin america, mr president. i think it is very important for europe and, of course, europe is also important for latin america. there are many human ties, many business interests, many emerging countries in latin america itself, such as argentina, brazil or mexico, which are part of this new world governance and which have to make an alliance with europe. i would like to ask you, mr president, what are the plans of the european union and its presidency for latin america, what are the expectations of the summit with latin america, what are the plans of the european union and its presidency with latin america.
today, at the beginning of 2010, we are not where we would have liked to be in the fight against climate change. and we are not because we should be in the process of articulating the adoption of legislative amendments arising from an agreement reached in copenhagen. we are not, and we have reason to be sorry. we regret that there has been a reduction in ambition in the fight against climate change, that a binding agreement has not been signed and that there has been a lack of transparency in the procedure. and that, as a result, we do not have sufficient legal basis or means to meet the needs, especially of the developing countries. but we are not where we were before copenhagen, because in copenhagen an agreement was reached with the united states, china, india, south africa and brazil, which was later joined by other countries such as russia, australia, norway, sweden and spain. we must not forget that the sum of all these countries represents three quarters of the co2 emissions and we must not forget that many of them were outside kyoto until now. so, an insufficient step has been taken, but a significant step has been taken. and that is the significant step we must take to give a boost from the european union. all the progress that has been made has its engine in the european union. and it will not continue to move forward if the european union does not keep pushing. in the case of germany and mexico, we must work towards binding agreements and resources to help developing countries with mitigation, adaptation and technology transfer. we must do so for efficiency, for fairness and for the need to add partners. i am sure that the spanish presidency will work towards that.
i greet the minister and welcome her to the house. i am very concerned about the change in attitudes and that the copenhagen analysis will lead to a change in attitudes. firstly, i think that one of the problems we have is that of greater humility and realism, as my colleagues have said. but mostly, i worry that when we've been to other countries, they don't talk about climate change. they talk about global change. the scenario that we're going to move into in mexico, the scenario that we've moved into, is a growing population, a lack of food, the need for more agriculture, limited resources of soil and water, and any decision that we make about climate change has to be placed in this context. and of course we must not forget the right to development which many countries have. so we need to have a systemic view, something that is missing in the analysis of climate change. climate change is not solved by the emissions problem alone. a sectoral and quantitative approach leads to nothing. on the other hand, we must give more importance to science. above all, i ask the commission to review the teams that have falsified the data and to withdraw their funding, if europe is helping them, because it is a disgrace for the ages. how are we going to coordinate? that's a second important question. how will europe organise itself to agree? we'd have to be working on that by tomorrow. finally, the issue that concerns me: adaptation is done on the ground and we must do it again with a new strategic vision of the land, including productivity, strategic reforestation, regions, zones and districts dedicated to agro-energy, and of course water and biodiversity. we lack that vision. in this sense, i think we should think about support from the structural funds for new strategic plans in all the regions, in order to be able to make an adaptation, in which the bureau is invited to make this new strategic review of the territory, because we have no competence in this area and it will be very difficult to work in europe.
unlike this morning, when we were in such a hurry, we now have a few minutes and, breaking the usual rule, we will try to give the floor to all those who have asked to speak in accordance with the 'catch the eye' procedure. i do ask everyone to stick to the beginning of one minute per intervention. we'll cut to the minute of intervention, because there are thirteen registered. i want everyone to have a chance to speak, but for the prime minister and the commissioner to be able to react, it has to be that each of them speaks for a minute.
few issues have such a consensus in the european parliament and in society as to frustrate the hopes of this society which supports us, which trusted in copenhagen. i do not think that the summit was a failure, much less something that those who confuse climate with weather say: that the fact that it snowed in the north is very normal, but it is not normal that it snows in seville and that it is 4o in cuba, which confirms that, indeed, there are effects of climate change. i'm saying none of those causes should let us down our guard. we need more than ever to maintain our position, madam minister, and that you are able to encourage it even more in these six months, to convince the council that there is an increasingly uniform and more united position and to inspire the commission so that we have a single voice so that when we go to mexico, mr obama will no longer be able to say: 'i am going to meet the chinese and then i will tell the europeans', because that is where the frustration for the european union comes from. the leading position we hold, madam minister, is needed by the climate, by the european union and by humanity.
you know that your speeches can be written down and recorded in the house's record, but if you speak too fast, the problem is that the interpretation does not follow and then only you or someone who understands the language in which you are speaking will hear them. it is therefore advisable that you speak slowly so that you can be heard in your speech and that, as i say, you use the opportunity to give your speech in writing, which will appear in the minutes.
we have finished this exceptionally long session, but we have been able to allow a very large number of colleagues to express their views, an exceptionally large number of colleagues, and have also shown the house's interest in the subject under discussion. we are now at the end of the debate and we shall first give the floor to minister elena espinosa to react. the minister will understand, and the house will understand, that given the friendship, affection and admiration i feel for her, it is a great emotion and a great joy to give her the floor.
acting president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, i thank each and every one of your speakers, who will certainly help us to improve. i am sorry that i cannot answer each and every one of you, from mrs wortmann-kool's first speech to mr grzyb's last, plus the additional fifteen we have had. but let me add a few words to my opening statement. several far-reaching challenges in climate change remain: consolidating the right support and level of commitment around the copenhagen accord and strengthening each of its elements, developing and refining its content and accelerating its implementation. the copenhagen summit has highlighted the new international landscape in which we are moving, a landscape in which further improvements are needed, where new challenges and expectations are presented by very different actors and where the rules for decision-making need to change to adapt effectively to new times and needs. this is where the european union must reflect on how to demonstrate its leadership, at international level, in climate policy. we must not lose sight of our objectives, because that would undermine our credibility and our position, which has been tested over the last few years. no one knows better than the european union the difficulties of building such collective leadership, nor does anyone know better than this parliament the benefits and satisfaction of an outcome that improves us all. on a global scale, we can only move forward if the path is based on mutual trust and the common interest. copenhagen has been defined by some as a perfect storm with a bittersweet outcome. i would prefer to keep something which i consider very valuable: the offer of a wide potential which we will be delving into in the last few months. and, ladies and gentlemen, rest assured that we can say loud and clear that the european union was not the problem in copenhagen. as we have already begun, several of you have spoken of solidarity with third countries, of reducing emissions, of deforestation, of a more efficient and sustainable industry, and many of you have spoken of leadership and unity. at this stage it is our task to promote the immediate implementation of the copenhagen agreement. we also have a responsibility to promote the full integration of the agreement into the ordinary process of the united nations and to consolidate the basis for significant progress in mexico. regional and sectoral alliances will play a key role in this, and the european union will have to strengthen and extend them. let us work together for the future. we must learn and move forward, not sit back and lament. looking to the future, thinking about what we must leave to future generations, this parliament can do a lot. all together, the member states, the environment council, the commission, parliament and, of course, the presidency, we have a role to play. instead of displacing, we must add and contribute the best of each other in defence of a common future, without forgetting that the environment, development, competitiveness and innovation are common objectives that must go hand in hand. i take note of your contributions and know that you will always have the spanish government, which holds the rotating presidency of the european union until 30 june, working with you to achieve a more sustainable future for all.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me thank you for a very substantive and responsible debate. i will certainly pass your best wishes to my colleague, stavros dimas, for his recovery so that he might join you in the committee shortly. i took note of your points and i will try to respond to some of your concerns and policy positions on the basis of the briefings i have asked for during this debate. i think we can interpret your basic messages so that, even though the copenhagen accord does not reflect our level of ambition, there is still a certain european fingerprint on it. in other words, the copenhagen accord contains references to the level of ambition needed to address climate change for the post-2012 climate agreement and it sets the basis for a financial package and invites serious commitments on emissions reductions. on our own behalf, concerning our commitments, coreper is meeting at this moment, and the commission and the member states want to make a single submission that is clear. the details are now under discussion, and i am confident that we will be ready before the deadline of 31 january. this is in response to mrs mcavan, and this should also create a sound basis for the single negotiating text that mrs pietikäinen was calling for. at the same time, we see the accord as a stepping stone for future major leaps in mexico in future international climate negotiations. mrs hassi and many others have called for the eu’s leadership. i agree, and the commission is determined to ensure that the eu maintains its leadership position over the coming months and transforms this accord into the ambitious and legally treaty that we all want to see. i count on your support for this goal. unfortunately – as has been rightly said in this debate – some of our important negotiating partners, such as china and the united states, have not been able or willing to commit themselves as closely as the european union has done, which of course had a detrimental impact on the negotiations. it is clear to everyone that china, in particular, did not want to commit itself to seriously meaningful objectives. it is my personal view that the new commission will have to define an overall china strategy for the european union to better pursue and achieve our common interests with the view of climate policy, trade tensions and exchange-rate policy. it is not acceptable that china’s currency-dumping is risking the economic recovery in europe. in the same way, we would expect china to make a serious commitment in the field of climate change policy. but let us also recall that our leadership starts at home. we need to make every effort to fulfil our kyoto commitments as we are approaching the finishing line. we also need to ensure that new ambitious policies and measures are put forward that will lead us to the 20% – or even 30% – reduction goal that we have set for ourselves. in order to achieve that, we need to invest in innovation and research in resource efficient, environmental and energy technologies, which will be at the heart of the new eu 2020 strategy we are currently preparing. i agree with mrs dati and mrs grossetête, as well as mrs ek, that this implies that the eu 2020 will have to be a climate industry and a jobs strategy – and thus at the heart of the economic revival of the european union. i would also still like to respond mr davies, concerning his very concrete question. i have checked and i can inform you that the use of the eur 300 million allowances for carbon capture and storage should be decided on 2 february in the respective comitology committee. i can reassure you that we want to support 12 demo plants. eight plants will be supported in the first round and the rest in the second round. to conclude, it is our duty for future generations to continue to lead by example and reach a legally binding agreement by the end of this year, ensuring a better and sustainable future for all.
the commissioner has spoken, and we wish him well in his work, convinced that he will do an excellent job, as he has done in the past, and we have concluded the debate. the vote will take place during the first part-session of february, that is to say, february i.
i think it is fairly clear that since the accession negotiations with turkey began, on the basis of a unanimous council agreement, the process as a whole deserves a positive assessment. the process of democratization and modernisation in turkey has been helped. however, it is also obvious that there are a multitude of problems, there are advances, there are setbacks, there are bad news from time to time - the recent ban on the kurdish party dtp is one of them - and that we are facing a long road of enormous complexity. here in this parliament we are always in the habit of telling others what to do. i think it would be good if we also stated, in this future outlook for the negotiations with turkey, what our majority position is. i think that will be reflected in the report by mrs rita oomen-ruijten, who, with a large majority, is in favour of not establishing a two-sided approach in the negotiating process, of being firm and clear in our intentions and of not sending out contradictory signals, because that is what could really feed a vicious circle, in which reticence, ambiguity and european contradictions feed back the sectors most reluctant or opposed to european accession in turkey itself, nationalist or other sectors opposed to european integration. i welcome the speeches by both the council and the commission. we are making progress, we do not know when the end will come, but we must be faithful to the word we gave: pacta sunt servanda. we have a negotiating process for turkey's accession to the european union and we must be clear, precise and, of course, circumspect in this will.
i also wanted to add to the contradictory situation we are in today, that while we are continually supporting turkey's accession process, because we need turkey in the european union for many reasons, we are now in a contradictory situation, because not many weeks ago the european parliament was supporting and showing its satisfaction with the progress made in the relationship between turkey and the kurdish community and today we are in a surprise situation, with this situation of the ban on the main kurdish party in turkey, which of course raises serious questions for us again. in this connection, i would certainly encourage this parliament and the european union, i would ask the commission, to resume or even further intensify efforts to resume those areas of accession where we have seen great progress, in aspects relating, for example, to the need for consensus among all political parties and that, of course, leads to an appeal to the turkish government to resolve satisfactorily the situation that the kurdish political party, the dtp, is experiencing right now.
i would like to thank mrs ţicău for organising a delegation from the committee on transport and tourism to travel along the danube in september 2008 and also to visit its mouth, i.e. the delta and the black sea. i was very impressed at the time by the history and the immense potential of this european river, which runs through ten countries, six of which are already in the european union and the other neighbours and candidate countries. i was also struck by the great disparities and the different approaches by the member states. some see it as a natural jewel, having reached the highest level of well-being and development on its shores. they need to go back to the origins of a river that has been a governed river for centuries. and i have to say that i was shocked to see colonies of birds accustomed to living on the river and that, little by little, precisely because of a recovery, by going back, they were losing their habitat in the river, and while before there were the poor with their feet in the water, right now i don't know where they will be. others, with years of developmental delay, see it as a promise of development and a source of wealth, communication and energy. and they also have their rights, after so many years of seeing the river as a vector of incommunicado, of blockade or lack of development, precisely, or of confrontation. i agree with them that there is a huge, immediate and urgent need to recover the danube as a waterway for sustainable transport. there is the marco polo programme, which is still so badly used, or as a unique vector for tourist development, because the landscapes are certainly impressive, or as a source of renewable energy. we who are not fortunate enough to have such european and transnational rivers because we live on a peninsula, in a corner of the european union - although we do have rivers between portugal and spain, and their shared and transnational management is an example at european level - it is true that we see with real envy the capacity of this danube. we therefore support, without any reservations, the need for this urgent strategy for the danube region, so that europe can be more complete, harmonized and sustainable.
respect for tunisia also means respect for its democratic opposition, which is trying to organize itself and which is being repressed, and for its civil society, which is also the opposition of the future. i therefore want to greet the members who are here now, who are with us in this sitting, but i also want to greet the members who may be in the future and who are threatened today or who may be imprisoned. we therefore think it is very important that this society should be articulated and that its democratic opposition should also be respected, even if it is not articulated in the present. we in spain - i can say this as a spanish mep - have known a society in which democratic opposition was tortured and repressed in times of dictatorship. the opposition, when it is not terrorist, when it is democratic, has values, which are the values of the future. the opposition, which is not articulated today, but is democratic and which is fighting for the values of the tunisian transition and the consolidation of those values, must therefore be helped to articulate. we must also help them to become the leaders and protagonists of the future, possibly in the opposition, or in the government, but the alternation is fundamental in a democratic society. that is why the escalation of violence we are seeing today, and which may become more acute in the future, is not the best presentation card for an advanced statute. we know that tunisia has been a partner in the mediterranean partnership, with a mediterranean vocation and a democratic vocation, and that is why we want it to contribute to this period of democratic consolidation and to be able to articulate, so that it can really be a loyal partner and a partner that contributes to making the mediterranean an emerging area and an area with democratic values. that is our wish for the future and that is what we want for tunisia.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is deeply shocked and saddened by what happened on coptic christmas eve in nagaa hammadi in southern egypt, the tragic deaths of six copts and a muslim policeman in a drive-by shooting. we are positive that the authorities took rapid action to find and arrest those suspected of committing this awful crime, and a thorough investigation and bringing those responsible to justice will send a clear signal that violence based on religious influence is not acceptable in egyptian society. egypt’s constitution provides for freedom of belief and free practice of religion. however, we do hear complaints of discrimination against the copts and against other religious minorities such as the bahá’í in the workplace and by the judicial system. we are aware of difficulties encountered by several christian converts, such as maher el-gohary and mohammed hegazy, in egyptian courts. we raised those issues in our regular political dialogue with egypt. we understand that the government is seeking to address some of the grievances of the copts, for instance by removing the obstacles that delay and limit the building and refurbishment of churches. we welcome and encourage such moves and urge the government to identify and tackle the root causes of religious tensions in egyptian society and to end all forms of discrimination against those belonging to other religions. the acts of vandalism against churches in malaysia following a high court ruling on the use of the word ‘allah’ give rise to serious concerns. the government as well as the opposition, including the pan-malaysian islamic party and 130 muslim ngos, have all strongly condemned those attacks. the government has increased security measures to safeguard all places of worship and has also reconfirmed its commitment to protect malaysia’s social and religious harmony and a culture of religious and ethnic diversity. the malaysian federal constitution states that islam is the religion of the federation but other religions may be practised in peace and in harmony in any part of the federation. we encourage the authorities to initiate as soon as possible an all-encompassing inter-faith dialogue with all religious beliefs to promote mutual understanding so that malaysia can continue to develop peacefully in ethnic and social harmony. in that regard, the malaysian home ministry has a particular responsibility to explain thoroughly and objectively to its citizens the issue at stake. we strongly condemn all acts of intolerance against any person because of his religion of belief wherever they occur. unfortunately no country is immune from this. we call on public authorities to fully protect all religious communities, including christians, from discrimination and from repression. the commission gives high priority to freedom of religion or belief as central tenets of the eu’s human rights policy by raising the issue in political dialogue with countries where the problem persists, by supporting local human rights projects and by actively promoting freedom of religion or belief at the un forums.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on human rights violations in china, in particular the case of liu xiaobao.
member of the commission. − mr president, the eu has clearly expressed its deep concern at the disproportionate sentence against the prominent human rights defender liu xiaobo of 11 years’ imprisonment for his role as the author of charter 08, a blueprint for democratic and rights-based reform in china, and for publishing a number of essays relating to human rights issues on the internet. we attach great importance to freedom of thought and expression: cornerstones, as we are all aware, of our democratic system. the verdict against mr liu is entirely incompatible with the right to freedom of expression enshrined in the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which china is a signatory. we are also attached, by the way, to the protection of the right to sexual expression and orientation, as mentioned by mrs trüpel. the eu attempted to observe the trial, and we deeply regret that our observers were barred from the courtroom. the details of the trial, which we have nevertheless been able to learn, indicate clearly that mr liu was not afforded the opportunity to present a proper defence and that he did not receive a fair trial. the eu will continue to call on the chinese government to unconditionally release mr liu and to end the harassment and detention of other signatories of charter 2008. our overall policy towards china is one of constructive engagement in the framework of our strategic partnership. on several occasions in the past, we have welcomed china’s progress with regard to social and economic rights, as well as the recent launch of china’s human rights action plan, but, on the other hand, there are extremely serious concerns with regard to civil and political rights and a number of recent developments, such as those that the honourable members of this house have raised in the draft resolution. the eu’s commitment to human rights is conveyed during our regular political contacts and, in particular, during our human rights dialogue with the chinese authorities. the last session, as you are aware, was on 20 november last year in beijing. the strength of our relationship allows us to discuss those matters frankly. last year, at the 12th eu-china summit in nanjing, human rights were raised, both during the discussions and in the press conference. mrs vergiat and mrs korhola touched upon the cyber attacks against google. the commission thinks that this is another worrisome development in the framework of freedom of expression in china. we are obviously monitoring the situation closely. we understand that there are ongoing consultations between the company and the chinese authorities. we will remain vigilant in case similar attacks target eu companies. let me reassure this house that we will continue to raise those issues, including at the highest level, recalling the international human rights obligations of the people’s republic of china. we also recall the chinese constitutional guarantees on freedom of expression. we all share the goal of a more open, transparent china, adhering to international standards on human rights and working together to address global challenges. to achieve this, we must continue to work on the development of our strategic partnership. i would like to react to a question from mrs de keyser. regarding the execution of the british citizen, akmal shaikh, the european union has condemned in the strongest terms the execution of akmal shaikh. it deeply regrets the fact that china did not heed repeated calls by the european union and one of its member states for the death sentenced passed against mr shaikh to be commuted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the philippines.
very briefly. i would simply like to remind you that we are in a new year, with a new treaty, but with the same old bad habits. we still lack the presence of the council in these kinds of urgent debates and we also continue to lack this interinstitutional dialogue which should enable us to respond to these kinds of cases. in the specific case of the philippines, i must remind you once again that - although it is not a situation with the impact of others, such as haiti - the fact that in the last decade there have been almost a thousand people missing or dead indicates that there is a structural problem and that structural measures are needed. we can't be acting on headlines all the time. we have to respond on the basis of the problems, and the fact that, at the moment, the main ones affected are human rights defenders and journalists means that not only can we not silence these situations, but we also have to act in a forceful way in the face of them.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am representing the high commissioner and i am representing the commission. the massacre in maguindanao on the island of mindanao on 23 november last year in which 57 people were killed has highlighted long-standing human rights issues in the philippines related to the disappearance or unexplained killing of citizens and the effective impunity for the perpetrators in the past. on this occasion the government has acted swiftly and has taken decisive action to prosecute the perpetrators. that is very welcome. it is important to break the culture of impunity about such killings and to put an end to them. the government has taken some important steps in strengthening human rights. the current administration of president arroyo has abolished the death penalty and with asean has advocated including human rights provisions in the recently adopted asean charter. an objective still to be achieved is ending the 40-year-old conflict with muslim rebels in mindanao on the basis of a peace deal that is fair to all sides. there appears to be renewed progress, and hopes have risen for agreement later this year. it should be noted that the massacre in maguindanao took place between political families – all muslim by the way – and that as such it was not related to intercommunal conflicts. the eu has a well -established dialogue with the government of the philippines where both sides discuss a wide range of issues, including human rights. we are also negotiating a pca with the philippines which will include important human rights commitments. we actively support the government in its efforts to improve respect for human rights. in agreement with the government we have launched an ‘eu-philippines justice assistance mission’. this is a very timely action aimed at capacity-building for the philippines judicial authorities, including police and military personnel, to help them investigate cases of extrajudicial killings and to prosecute those guilty of murder. we shall also put in place a monitoring system to develop confidence. epjust has an initial duration of 18 months and is funded under the instrument for stability, but can be extended. furthermore, we have ongoing projects at local level to promote respect for human rights. these include monitoring of the implementation of international commitments, actions to support the ratification of the rome statute of the icc and voter education. the eu is also helping in the mindanao peace process for the moment, mainly through support for social services and confidence-building activities, but we stand ready to do more if the process advances.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time. i would remind mrs lochbihler not to forget to table her oral amendment at the appropriate time during the vote.
mr president, last december the european union and the kingdom of morocco signed an agreement on the liberalization of trade in agricultural products, the content of which we unfortunately only know from the media. these figures indicate an increase in the quota for tomatoes imported into the european union, an increase which we categorically reject, given that the kingdom of morocco has repeatedly failed to comply with its commitments to the european union. this is a situation which the commission does not want to acknowledge, but which is clearly established by the european anti-fraud office itself. we cannot allow the commission to continue to look the other way and ignore the needs of the producers in the canary islands, andalusia, murcia and alicante. we therefore clearly demand that the agreements be respected, that greater attention be paid to plant health checks and that the possibility of extending the moroccan export calendar throughout the year be examined.
mr president, i am referring to the european charter of the rights of victims of terrorism. on 15 december, mr barrot committed himself to promoting a european charter of the rights of victims of terrorism. on 19 january, mrs malmström welcomed mr barrot's words with a genuine positive spirit and, on behalf of the spanish presidency, on 26 january, the minister for the interior, mr pérez rubalcaba, said 'i am fully in favour of the victims of terrorism; everything we can do in the commission and the council will be done to help them'. we applaud all of this. but we must now move from statements to facts, and this in time for the sixth international congress on victims of terrorism, which will be held in salamanca on 11, 12 and 13 december. i wish you success in your work. mr president, we will continue to push for and demand this commitment from parliament.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is based on a relationship of solidarity between its member states. a clear example of this solidarity is administrative cooperation in tax matters, which is a key element in the functioning of the union. it is a question of loyalty between the member states, between their tax administrations; a loyalty which is translated into trust, into the confidence that the partners will also be allies and will not allow fraudsters to find refuge in their territory for their fraudulent activities. tax fraud pollutes the whole economy, has serious consequences for national budgets by reducing the capacity to bear expenditure and to carry out investments, leads to a breach of the principle of fiscal fairness vis-à-vis compliant citizens and leads to distortions of competition resulting in a poor functioning of the market. all these effects are all the more worrying because the volume of tax fraud in the european union is estimated to exceed €200 billion a year. this is twice the cost of the commission's proposed economic recovery plan, and it is therefore a very large sum. we are therefore faced with a major challenge which we must face with all our resolve, and although the directive currently in force was undoubtedly a first step in this direction, despite being full of good intentions, its practical application has not produced the desired effects. the time has come to take the next step and to equip ourselves with new instruments so that taxation can go hand in hand with market integration and liberalisation. i therefore welcome the proposal put forward by commissioner kovács and would like to congratulate him on his entire mandate and today, in particular, on this draft new directive. with this proposal we will have more and more effective means of combating tax fraud and tax evasion in europe. in this sense, the new directive represents a quantitatively and qualitatively significant leap forward: quantitatively, because it introduces new obligations, and qualitatively, because it extends and specifies those already envisaged. the scope of the objective is broadened from the exchange of information on request to automatic exchange. and finally, the third innovation: the lifting of banking secrecy. let me refer to this measure as the star of the proposal, because in practice such secrecy is the biggest obstacle for tax administrations. the lifting of banking secrecy has been an old claim of the oecd, reclaimed by the g-20. the commission's proposal is to be implemented in the next few years. this is the same objective pursued by the report we are examining today. it is our intention to intensify the results of the commission's proposal. the aim is to make the new directive more effective and more applicable. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the possibility of the exchange of information between the member states and the commission. there are also compromise amendments, namely those relating to the automatic exchange of information, data protection and confidentiality and the exchange of information with third countries. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues in the commission for their work and their spirit of collaboration and congratulate them on that. we have reached a broad consensus: the message from this parliament is clear and its firm commitment to the fight against tax fraud and evasion and to strengthening these great principles of the eu: loyalty, transparency and fair competition.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i have found the debate interesting and inspiring. like most of you, i am persuaded that our efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and to increase tax cooperation are worthwhile. i am grateful for your support and for the work of the four rapporteurs, and i am very grateful for the support for these important commission initiatives. promoting good governance in tax matters is a complicated dossier containing several different issues. your reports have covered virtually all of them, from the formal legislative proposal promoting administrative cooperation to our work with third countries. i was pleased to hear that many of you encouraged the commission to be more ambitious. i fully agree with you, and i am sure that, with your support and with that of the governments of the member states, the new commission will be able to tackle the challenges ahead. i know that these files remain a priority for my successor. the commission, parliament and the council should continue efforts for the approval of the legislative proposals which are on the table or in the pipeline and the work of the code of conduct group on business taxation. on the external aspects of the principles of good governance in tax matters, all actions mentioned in the communication should be promoted, with special attention to those related to developing countries. as regards the specific proposals on administrative cooperation, mutual assistance in the recovery of tax claims and the optional and temporary reapplication of the reverse charge mechanism, i also want to thank you for your comments and views. i am glad to see that the european parliament and the commission share views on the action to be undertaken to better combat tax fraud and evasion in the european union and beyond. i also see general support for the three proposals. achieving rapid progress and unanimous agreement on the proposal on administrative cooperation is one of the priorities of the spanish presidency. it is also now a priority for most member states. the eu urgently needs to reach a unanimous agreement internally to be able to show, on the international scene, its determination to move ahead from the oecd standard and the g20 recommendations and pave the way for a future evolution at international level by proving it is able to develop fully fledged administrative cooperation. it is clear that there is no one single and global solution for eliminating tax fraud and evasion, but the proposals we have discussed today are important steps forward within the framework of the european union’s anti-tax-fraud strategy. finally, just one day before the end of the mandate, i would like to repeat my thanks for the support for the commission’s tax and customs initiatives and, in particular, for the cooperation of the econ and imco committees.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to refer to the reasons why we are going beyond the standards set by the oecd in terms of automatic exchange of information. we could analyse many arguments, but it is clear that the oecd model is conceived in a broader framework for international relations, which responds to very different rules of the game from those of the european union. in the european union, we have the same economic space - as mr kovács has said - in which tax information must circulate as easily as taxable persons, so that each member state can apply its tax system. it is a single market in which there are no barriers to persons or goods and therefore there need not be any barriers to tax information. the member states are part of a political project and the relations between their tax systems must be in accordance with this political project. beyond the obvious practical imperative, we are faced with a question of principle. i would also like to stress the idea that fiscal sovereignty, in the fight against fraud, is strengthened rather than undermined. in other words, member states will have their fiscal sovereignty strengthened by having more effective instruments to implement their own tax systems. and so this is an issue that we must take into account and that is why we must support this directive. i would also like to stress that fraud, as mr klinz has said, is a criminal offence. we cannot justify this with such trivial arguments as the high taxation of the various tax systems. on the contrary, i would say that if we reduce tax evasion, we can reduce taxes. it is true that we must continue to work towards simplifying the various tax systems. and in conclusion, i would like to stress the important disincentive effect of the four reports and the four directives that we are supporting, in that when taxpayers are aware that thanks to this legislation there is less space and less refuge for those who cheat, the temptation to try to do so will be much less. and if they do, we will have more effective tools to prosecute such fraud. finally, i would like to stress the temporary value of this measure, since the crisis has shown the danger of opacity, the contagion from one country to another and the need for public stimulus. i would like to refer here to the support of mr lamberts, who points out that we are at a time when public finances must make a special effort to adopt measures of economic recovery and social protection to cushion the effects of the crisis. the citizens are therefore more aware than ever of the seriousness of tax fraud and its effects on the economy as a whole, and they are demanding that their representatives take appropriate measures to combat it.
madam president, i would first of all like to express our utmost solidarity with the workers of opel and their families, as well as with those of the subsidiary companies who have been struggling for months and months to put an end to a plan that calls for aid from the states and sacrifices from the workers. the figueruelas factory in spain and its workers will also be directly affected by this situation. that is why, in order to prevent such a situation from recurring in the future, we are calling on the new commission, commissioner, to adopt a new and active industrial policy, especially in the automobile sector, to monitor and prevent the divestments which in the recent past have led some companies such as general motors or opel in europe to impossible situations which have ended up being paid for by the workers. the commission cannot remain a mere observer. that is why we also ask the commission to verify and monitor very closely the content of the opel plan, which still appears to be full of inaccuracies in terms of viability, since it is only defined in terms of the sacrifices of workers and territories. we also call on the commission to play its part in ensuring that the steps taken in the field of financial viability are taken in agreement with the workers and their representatives, which has not always been the case. and as regards securing the future of opel europe, we once again call for future projects to be based on real criteria of economic and industrial viability in a european framework which will prevent the recurrence of events such as the present and make the european car industry an innovative, sustainable and future-oriented sector. the citizens who hear us speak and decide on the cars of the future still want to drive in safer, more comfortable, more sustainable cars, that follow the high european quality standards they were used to. they therefore also demand that european workers continue to look after these cars of the future.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, the debate touched on a number of issues, some of which, in my view, are the subject of discussion for the next commission. and that discussion will undoubtedly be very deep: the overall concept of industrial policy, the overall concept of state aid and other things. as for the case that was opened here, it's an opel case, so it's not industrial policy as such. it is clear that the commission can operate within the framework of the treaty. and i think i can say with some satisfaction that the commission has so far made use of all the possibilities that the treaty has given it, and has used them in a way that was not entirely customary. i can mention two meetings proposed by my colleague günter verheugen, where the member states discussed the situation as such, and this undoubtedly made it possible to coordinate the approach to some extent. the ex ante assessment of the plans was also unusual. i must point out that the structure of european union law does not provide any firm legal basis for such a procedure. yet, given the importance of the matter, it was used. as regards the state aid question, no state aid is yet being discussed, no state is proposing it and it is for the commission to assess ex post whether this state aid is operating within the rules. i am firmly convinced that the approach must be as strict as possible, because it is unacceptable that these serious decisions are motivated by considerations other than economic, that instead of a certain competition between firms, there is competition between states for individual subsidies. in this respect, the commission will assess the state aid plan very rigorously and, of course, all the circumstances surrounding the state aid. in my last speech, about three months ago, i emphasized that we would do everything to ensure that all the rules of consultation with employees were respected. and that's what we've been doing and that's what we're doing. and we will not hesitate to take all the measures that the legal structure of the european commission gives us. i think my colleague who's taking over will be no less strict. ladies and gentlemen, i think this case raises a number of questions which need to be discussed, and i think it also places the commission under an obligation to make the most of all the possibilities that are given in this regard. i would like to stress one last point, and i said it in my opening speech: if there are redundancies - and in this debate it was said that general motors is considering laying off some 8 to 10 thousand employees - then this will not be a matter of antwerp alone, that is certain. the commission will again use and mobilise all the instruments at its disposal and which it uses for such a case. the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund, among others. and of course we will make every effort to resolve these matters as quickly as possible. here too, of course, parliament has an active role to play, because it is only after parliament has discussed the proposals put forward by the commission that they can be put into effect. ladies and gentlemen, any aid from the european union must be directed first and foremost at people and not at businesses, and this is also the basic framework for our overall decision-making.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to express my solidarity with the families of all those affected by the terrible news of the closure of the plant in antwerp. we are not just talking about the people who will directly lose their jobs, since we must not forget all those subcontracted companies which will also be affected. in my region, aragon, we have the figueruelas plant, so this issue directly affects us. that is why we want an active policy in the motor vehicle sector with new, greener and more innovative car models that can create new jobs.
i would like to begin by thanking mr tarabella and all the colleagues who have been involved in the development of this report for the work they have done. a year ago we were discussing a report very similar to the one we have on the table today and unfortunately we have to keep insisting on the essential issues on which we have not yet managed to make progress in terms of equality between men and women: gender violence understood as one of the biggest social scourges not only in europe but also in the world; the wage gap that remains stable and we have not managed to reduce; the rights to sexual and reproductive health; the reconciliation of family and working life; the integration of women into the labour market in an equal situation; the situation of vulnerable groups of women, such as disabled women or women in rural areas; or the representation of women in public life. these are questions which we keep repeating year after year and on which we have not made much progress. i will give you just one figure: in only three of the 27 member states are more than 40% of the members of parliament women. i think it is essential that we insist on the need to intensify our work in advancing equality between men and women. it is essential that we support initiatives such as those of the spanish presidency, which has made equality between men and women one of its priorities. it's a commitment not just to us, but to future generations. progress has been made, but there is still a long way to go, and we need to be ambitious in policies that ensure that half the european population has the same rights and opportunities as the rest.
mr president, on behalf of the european people's group, i express my firm, firm and convinced support for mr barroso for his words, but also for some of the speeches which have taken place in this house and which make us support him more strongly and more fully than ever. i would like to say that the main reason for this support is not the number of commissioners in our group, our political family, in the commission, but, fundamentally, the belief that the european union is living in a unique moment, a different moment. this commission is not just any commission, this parliament is not just any parliament, and not just because there is a treaty of lisbon, but because we are living through an unprecedented crisis in the european union, an economic and social crisis. we believe that the most important thing is not the lisbon treaty, but a change of attitude towards greater political ambition by all the european institutions, and that is why we support the commission chaired by mr barroso without any doubt. moreover, because we are experiencing an economic and financial crisis, but we are going to experience a crisis of a social dimension; it will be another phase of the crisis, the differences between some nations and others will increase, there will be greater social unrest. the economic and social crisis will undoubtedly cause more social unrest. and also because we are living through a crisis of values which makes it imperative that everyone, not just the commission, should change their personal attitude. from all of us. that is why our group says that the best way to change, to transform, to improve is to support the european commission headed by mr barroso. i therefore believe that in this task and in this effort, the european people's party wants us all to change the most. the european parliament too. the commission cannot be held solely responsible for the lack of cohesion that often exists in this house, which is largely responsible for the lack of a european voice in the world.
mr president of the commission, the socialist members - you know very well - want europe to have a real change in its social agenda and a renewed social agenda. many of us are hoping that there are little 'green shoots' in your speech, in the promises you made to our group, in the speech by commissioner lászló andor, in the institutional commitment we have to subject future european standards to environmental impact. there is hope that you have understood the lessons of the last elections and the glaring silence of the workers' organizations in the face of the new commission. that is why, mr barroso, we have a great interest in seeing what is now a rather vague promise come true and that, in the coming years, this commission brings the added value of real change, that barroso ii is not the same as barroso i. mr president of the commission, we have heard commissioner andor and we have that hope, we have that hope, and we can pledge allegiance to him if there is a commitment that is going to be maintained with regard to everything that has been announced in his appearances and in the agreement with this parliament. we need, mr barroso - because it is smart - that these environmental and social impact studies take account of the sustainability of the economic model you are defending. because otherwise europe will have no future: either europe reconciles its agenda with the agenda of the citizens and the agenda of the workers, or europe will not be built economically either, but it certainly will not be built politically, which is our project, the project of building a europe with great political ambition that is capable of re-enchanting its citizens, that is capable of being relevant in the world again... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the members of the spanish delegation of the socialist and democratic group are going to vote in favour of the mandate of the commission which has already been renamed barroso ii. we have good reasons for doing so: among them, we are sure that even mr barroso could not prove the critics of barroso i right when he has the opportunity to exercise the mandate of the barroso ii commission. reasons are within anyone's reach. europe has changed, the world has changed and entered into crisis. a global world, faced with a global crisis, needs a globally relevant europe. and in the face of crisis we cannot respond with more crisis, but with action and with action now: action to ensure the response to climate change, new energy, the globally relevant dimension of our foreign policy and our contribution to a safer world in the fight against crime and against terrorism. that action is necessary now. six months have passed since the elections; it is high time we had a fully functioning and efficient commission. that is what the europeans watching us - 500 million citizens - are waiting for right now. we are therefore convinced that since there is no option of inaction, barroso ii must surprise the critics of barroso i with action and with strong action.
ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the explanations of vote. there are sixteen colleagues who want to make an explanation of vote. i would remind everyone that the procedure allows them to submit the text in writing, so that they do not have to hurry to speak, since, on the contrary, their written submissions are conveyed more precisely in the minutes. firstly, we have three explanations of vote on the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission. each speaker will have one minute.
in writing. the itre commission is responsible for research, energy and the development of the information society. three priority issues to overcome the crisis and to renew our production system, which my group, the s&d group, wants to make more competitive and innovative, but also more socially and environmentally sustainable. one of the great drivers of change is research and innovation. mr barroso has committed to 3% investment in r & d. however, we have seen with concern how it was losing weight in political agendas and budgets. the commission has made a stronger commitment in this respect. the economic recovery will be largely the result of the change in the energy model. the future of the economy is the future of the green economy. the commission has also reaffirmed its commitment to this objective. and as regards the information society, we agree on the many challenges ahead of us in ensuring access to icts for everyone everywhere. the commissioners who have been present in the itre committee have made important concrete commitments and we have given them a vote of confidence, but we guarantee that we will see to it that these commitments are fulfilled.
madam president, we are meeting here for the first time in the history of the euro to discuss the financial situation of a handful of countries. i am underlining countries because the spanish presidency has spoken as if it were talking about outer space and commissioner almunia has referred only to greece. i would like to know whether the commissioner is still maintaining in his farewell speech that the problems of spain and portugal are similar to those of greece and what he would do in that case. but we have come together to discuss these finances because the finances of a few can ruin the credibility of everyone's currency and can open the door to a two-speed europe - a gap that could be widened when the exit strategy referred to by the spanish presidency is put into effect - because we could find that the countries which are lagging behind would have to face monetary difficulties, tougher monetary policies and, above all, would have to spend much more money to pay off debts and much less money to create jobs. i believe that without jobs, without a sustainable economy, it will be impossible to balance the finances. without jobs, tax revenues will continue to fall and unemployment benefits will continue to rise. we are facing a crisis of confidence, and in a crisis of confidence the first thing to do is to tell the truth. we have to say how it got here. what are the affected countries doing to get out of the hole? are the stability pacts credible or not? and above all, we need to know what they are doing to get their economies back on track, because, as i said before, without sustained growth there will be no sustainable economy or sustainable finance.
mr president, the economic crisis has made us appreciate the value of the euro and economic coordination. it is now indisputable that the role played by the euro area and the european central bank as elements of stability and of response to the credit crunch, and the concerted action at european and international level, in which you, mr almunia, have played an important leadership role, have contributed decisively to preventing the effects of the crisis from becoming more serious and even catastrophic. the crisis has caused a deep drop in economic activity, huge job losses and a considerable deterioration in public finances. although there appear to be signs of a nascent recovery, the forecasts for this year point to a fall in employment and an increase in public debt at the level of the european union. it has also highlighted the diversity of situations and the divergence between the various member states. tensions have arisen, tensions which - let us not be naive - do not always correspond to economic fundamentals or potentials. and we must not be made to forget our deep economic interdependence and our great commitments. the european union is facing its greatest challenges since its birth. someone described an international recovery with the letters luv: l for europe, u for the united states and v for emerging countries. europe cannot be left behind. it is time for reform, imagination and integration. the key priority must be to raise the growth potential of our economy.
acting president of the council. - madam president, as you know, the european union welcomed president obama's promise to close the guantanamo detention centre. he did so in his inaugural address and this statement was later confirmed in a joint statement by the european union and its member states and the united states on 15 june last year. we are in favour of the application of the law and respect for human rights at all times, and the united states, in that declaration, of course, says so too. consequently, it appeared to be incompatible with the maintenance of the guantanamo detention centre, which, moreover, was becoming one of the most widely used propaganda pretexts by al qaeda. true, the date for its closure (one year) has already passed. but it is true that there are difficulties, and we can give some examples, such as, in relation to former prisoners in yemen, who could not immediately return to that country. on the other hand, we are seeing that this issue is being very controversial within the united states itself, although we congratulate president obama for persevering in his intention to close guantánamo despite the strong opposition he has in congress, not only in the ranks of the republican party, but even in the democratic party. but, in any case, there are already some prisoners from guantanamo who have been released and who are going to be tried by ordinary american courts, such as, for example, khalid sheikh mohammed, the alleged mastermind of the attacks of september 11, despite the unease that this has generated in the united states. we have therefore always made this clear in our contacts with the united states and, most recently, in the visit to brussels by the united states special envoy for this issue, daniel fried (formerly responsible for relations between the united states and the european union and now responsible, precisely, for the management of the closure of guantanamo). the european union's concern about the use of so-called military commissions, prolonged detention without trial, and our opposition to the death penalty were, of course, made clear during your visit to brussels and in the framework of the human rights dialogue which the european union regularly holds with the united states. these are very clear, very firm positions which the european union has maintained, maintains and will maintain in its relations with the united states. i imagine that in relations between members of parliaments, in the transatlantic dialogue between legislators, you too have had occasion to put forward the same principles. i believe that the european union has fulfilled the agreement with the united states, which was reflected in the joint statement i mentioned earlier. there are member states which have already agreed to take in people who have been or are imprisoned in guantanamo and the number we can handle at the moment of the european countries which have already quantified that number of prisoners, together with switzerland, which is a partner of the european union in the schengen area, is around 16. in any event, they also know that the decision whether or not to accept a prisoner from guantanamo is of course a matter for the member states. the mechanism agreed by the european union's interior ministers reflected this desire to help the united states: we have always said that we wanted the prison at guantanamo to be closed, which was clearly contrary to the most basic human rights, and the european union, in turn, must help to make this possible, to the extent that we can and in accordance with the decisions that each state 'again' takes individually and sovereignly in relation to the possible reception of these prisoners. we can say that there were 242 prisoners in the detention center when president obama took office, and that 44 of them have already left that prison. the existence of this detention centre is a serious problem for transatlantic relations. the joint statement on the closure of the centre was made on the understanding that such an event would not happen again in the future: that is the natural attitude of the united states government, and the position of the european union has certainly contributed to changing the position of the united states, its prison policy in relation to guantanamo. as we have said, it is also a question - and this is also reflected in the joint declaration between the european union and the united states - of exploring the possibility of establishing and agreeing on a set of principles between the european union and the united states of america, which would be a common reference point in the context of our efforts to combat terrorism, which is also part of that joint declaration. we in the european union have the utmost interest in the permanent closure of the guantanamo bay detention centre and we welcome president obama's continued commitment to do so.
member of the commission. − madam president, the european union, including the european commission, has consistently called for the closure of the guantánamo bay detention facility. as already mentioned by the minister, the european union established a two-tier framework to support the closure of guantánamo, firstly through the justice and home affairs council conclusion of 4 june 2009 and the annexed information exchange mechanism and, secondly, through the joint statement of the european union and its member states and the united states of america on the closure of the guantánamo bay detention facility and future counter-terrorism cooperation of 15 june 2009. the council conclusions and the joint statement clearly state that the decisions on the reception of former detainees and the determination of their legal status fall within the sole responsibility and competence of a receiving eu member state or schengen-associated country. former detainees received under this scheme may have access to rehabilitation measures in the eu member states under the applicable national laws. in the context of the abovementioned statement on the closure of guantánamo, on 16 june 2009 the president of the council wrote to the co-chairman of the us detention policy task force. in this letter the european union put forward a non-paper with principles of international law relevant to the fight against terrorism. it includes unequivocal statements on due process guarantees, such as access to court to challenge arrest, detention and transfer, as well as on the prohibition of torture. they have been discussed in detail in the dialogue on counter-terrorism and international law. the commission considers these guarantees to be important to this dialogue, as they contribute to a better understanding of how the fight against terrorism should respect the rule of law and international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law. as already mentioned, the european union opposes the death penalty and has intervened in individual cases with third countries, including the united states, to prevent it from being carried out. the commission will consider appropriate steps in case the death penalty is imposed on a former guantánamo detainee tried by a us court or military commission. the european commission appreciates the steps taken so far by president obama to close guantánamo and hopes to see further progress on this in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would first like to remind you that the european parliament has spoken on the situation of the prisoners at guantanamo on several occasions in various resolutions. president obama, in his inauguration, said he was committed to closing the guantanamo detention center within a year. this deadline expired on 22 january and the lack of closure is proof that, often, in politics, it is easier to make promises than to keep them. on the other hand, as the representative of the council presidency told us, president obama's personal representative has visited the european union, met with our president and with several member states and asked for our cooperation, which must be offered on the basis of a number of premises that the commissioner has reminded us of: among others, that this is a problem generated by the previous united states government and that the european union must cooperate, but on the basis of certain requirements and, very particularly, the security of our member states. in this connection, i would like to recall the decision taken by some member states, including the state which currently holds the presidency of the council, my own country, and i would like to ask the representative of the spanish presidency whether it intends to take any further steps to try to harmonize the response of the member states to the problems which have been raised specifically in yemen, or whether it intends to leave this decision to the individual and sovereign discretion of each member state, as decided by the ministers of justice and the interior. and, one last question, madam president, it is true that 100 of the remaining 1 90 prisoners have been sent to their countries of origin or to third countries and 40 will be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of the united states. but there are still 50 who are not going to be released because there is not enough evidence to put them on trial, but their danger index has really forced the united states government to decide not to release them. i would like to ask the commission and the council what they think about the situation of these 50 people who will not be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of the united states.
madam president, guantanamo was a legal and humanitarian aberration, perhaps the most visible example of the bush administration's unilateral approach to international society and international relations, with complete disregard for international law. there was a lot of repair to be done after the bush disaster and obama is doing it. he started off on the right foot a year ago when he announced the closure of guantanamo as one of his first decisions, a courageous decision to regain the legitimacy of the united states in the world and also a gesture to the muslim community. but the self-imposed deadline of january 22nd for the closure of guantanamo has expired and there are still 192 prisoners left. if the governments of the european union really want to establish a true transatlantic strategic relationship, they must support president obama's decision and the best way to do that is by accepting prisoners or detainees from guantanamo. spain and other european union countries are doing so on the basis of the joint communiqué of 15 june, which sets out a shared framework for the eventual reception of detainees. but even though these are technically sovereign unilateral decisions of each member state, they should be a joint action of the european union in solidarity, as proof of support for a decision which we share in the european union and which this parliament has called for on several occasions, especially the socialist group. it's 50 prisoners: those deemed fit for release. that is a figure which should be acceptable to the twenty-seven. the existing mechanisms for the exchange of information between member states and schengen associated countries involved in the reception of prisoners should be supplemented by an exchange of information and experience on best practices for the social integration of former prisoners.
madam president, i would like to emphasize the point made recently by mrs flautre. it's very important to help president obama close guantanamo. we have been asking for this for a long time and it is essential that we, from the european union, also have the support necessary to be able to take in all the people who are asking us to take in at the moment, from the obama administration. but this should not make us forget that this prison also existed in large part because it fed from europe. so there is a historical responsibility which we cannot in any case conceal. we must help to close guantanamo, but it is also essential that we as europeans take our responsibility. because this is a european responsibility. for a long time, we in europe have looked elsewhere, for example, in the case of airplanes. the current president of the european commission, when he was portuguese prime minister, authorized and allowed flights to fly over portuguese territory to go to guantanamo. this historic responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission, cannot be allowed under any circumstances.
mr president, i would ask the spanish presidency to preserve bluefin tuna, but also to preserve the traditional art of fishing for mediterranean cod. this art, which has coexisted with the bluefin for over a thousand years, has never endangered it. what really endangers bluefin tuna is illegal fishing, industrial fishing, fencing and the proliferation of farms. this is the real problem with bluefin tuna. we should not be unfair: we should be able to distinguish between what is really endangering bluefin tuna, which is this type of industrial fishing - fencing - and traditional fishing. the policy must be fair and therefore we should look for a way of actually preserving tuna, but, of course, without punishing these traditional arts. i believe that there is a perfect balance, sometimes impossible to achieve, but we must try to find that way to effectively preserve this species, to ensure that it does not go extinct, without punishing traditional mediterranean arts such as the mattress.
mr president, i share the concern about the biological situation of the bluefin tuna stock and agree with the need for effective conservation and management measures which not only prevent its collapse but also ensure the sustainability of fisheries and responsible trade. my country has been working in this direction for years. in addition to the age-old example of the almadraba, it has created a protection zone in the mediterranean, limited the fencing fleet to six vessels and pioneered the adoption of a recovery plan for the species and documented control of trade. including bluefin tuna in appendix 1 to cites would lead to the prohibition of international trade in bluefin tuna without addressing the underlying problems: it does not limit the volume of catches, it can divert flags towards consumer countries and it is a step outside the recent agreements of iccat, the regional fisheries management organisation responsible for the management of this fishery, and would therefore weaken the international governance of the seas and the principle of responsible fishing. we have to get to the root of the problem. we support the reduction of catches already agreed at iccat and even a moratorium if the scientific reports in progress for the next season so determine. we want the european union to strengthen its control deployment and to comply with the iccat recommendations to ensure the traceability of catching processes and trade. this line of action is compatible with the inclusion of bluefin tuna in cites appendix 2, but is not compatible with appendix 1, which should be reserved for a different scenario and not subject to conditions that would erode its own credibility as a cites instrument. in any event, this debate should send a clear message: the european union is fully committed to the sustainability of bluefin tuna and will take the necessary measures to preserve it. the industry must show that quotas work and are enforced and that illegal fishing can be controlled. to save the fish, we must save the species.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bluefin tuna has been on red alert for some time, and we have been hearing reports for years clearly demonstrating the weakness of the stock and how we have contributed to that weakness of the stock, including through public subsidies. in the european union we have been paying as much as 34 million euros for modernisation in recent years. i think it is necessary for us to say this, to take responsibility for the situation we are in. we have brought the bluefin tuna stock to the brink of collapse and now we cannot say that we have no responsibility. today we have the opportunity to correct this problem by including bluefin tuna in appendix i of cites, and only then can we do so because, i repeat, there are many people who live off it. it is true that there are sectors which have done things well and which can and should continue to do things well, but in order for them to do things well there must be tuna. without tuna, they can't do anything at all. the only guarantee that this will be fulfilled is appendix i and therefore any other measure which can clearly distort that proposal is a bad measure which will, in any case, prolong the agony but will not end that agony. so let's not get confused, let's not cheat, we have a historical responsibility to the species and to the people and families who live off that. we are taking our responsibility with courage and with the honour that the european union deserves at this time.
mr president, with regard to the possible ban on bluefin tuna fishing in the mediterranean, i am very much afraid that legal fishing will be replaced by illegal fishing and that the just will pay for the wicked. in catalonia, hundreds of jobs are at stake. there is a respectful fishery, fully regulated and controlled, both in fisheries management and commercial management. since 2006, the bluefin tuna fishery in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean has been reduced from 30 000 tonnes to 13 500 tonnes. the minimum size of fish has been increased from 10 to 30 kilograms, and from 11 months of fishing to 11 months of sealing. finally, i think there is no consensus among international experts on the danger of extinction of bluefin tuna. if you compare stocks between 1970 and 2010, which is when control data is available, the bluefin tuna population would be above 15%, between 21 and 30%, therefore clearly above 15% of cites appendix 1.
mr president, i also want to speak about commercial fisheries and to make it very clear that it is the regional fisheries organisations that are already involved in the management and conservation of these species. in fact, a simple reading of the cites convention will tell you that it may be intended for elephants and polar bears, but it is certainly not intended for commercial fisheries. i am not against the protection of bluefin tuna, because it would be absurd, if only because of its importance to the fleet, but i believe that measures should be taken by the bodies which have the best specialists in both fisheries management and scientific research, because cites has to have recourse to external advice when it receives proposals on these species. i therefore consider the proposal to include bluefin tuna in appendix i of cites to be unnecessary and unjustified, because it already has the measures imposed by iccat, unfair, because it would harm a fleet that has just embarked on a huge effort to reduce fishing, and even counterproductive, because it can give rise to an uncontrollable black market in bluefin tuna. i understand the enormous pressure which environmental ngos are putting on public opinion in general and this house in particular, as is being seen, and that is why my group has decided to support inclusion in appendix ii as a compromise between the environment committee's proposal and those of us who think that fisheries management cannot be taken away from regional fisheries organisations. and our proposal is based on the scientific advice of cites. the fao has recommended the inclusion of bluefin tuna in appendix ii of cites exclusively, which shows that many have not even read the fao report.
mr president, we have heard today that illegal fishing is being mixed with the mafia, and i too want to speak out in favour of a sector which has shown itself to be responsible on many occasions. i am in favour of the need to control fisheries. i also support the need to control the mafia. but this cannot be a reason to include bluefin tuna in appendix i. i should also like to say that the basque fleet, which will be very much affected by this decision if it is adopted, has shown itself to be responsible, because in order to defend the sector, it has on occasion even requested the suspension of fishing for anchovy, for example. i must also say that we must listen to what iccat said, which adopted in 2009 more restrictive and stronger management measures in line with the recommendations of the scientific committee. i would remind you that a percentage of 3 500 tonnes of fishing quota has been set for 2010. in 2009 it was 22 000 tonnes, and in 2006 32 000. and so the commitment was also made to take further control measures if necessary. i am not in favour of the inclusion of bluefin tuna in this appendix i; it can harm many sectors, including the artisanal sector which has not been taken into account today. we should therefore only support their inclusion on the assumption that these measures would not be effective.
i think that the report we are voting on today, on turkey's progress towards accession to the union, is a positive report. it is frank and not without criticism, but it is balanced and in this respect i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten. naturally, our group would have put more emphasis on some aspects. but we have negotiated a broad consensus because we feel that the report should have the greatest possible support in this house. it must be a clear message in this regard. a positive message, one of goodwill but not without rigor, to give impetus to the negotiating process and to stimulate the process of modernising and democratic reforms in turkey. because we must be clear on this point: we must overcome a phase of slowness and ambiguity in the negotiations. the opinion polls indicate that there is an erosion of support among turkish public opinion for membership of the european union and this perception of citizens needs to change. the only way to do this is to ensure that the progress of the negotiations and reforms continues, that the european union shows that it is consistent with the commitments it has made and that it avoids, at the same time, sending out contradictory signals that create uncertainty. and of course turkey must also make a decisive step forward on the road to reform. we are either facing a vicious circle of division, confrontation and mistrust, or we are facing the resumption of the virtuous circle of serious, rigorous but unambiguous negotiation. if this report contributes even modestly to this, i think we can be satisfied.
mr president, i too, like other members, would like to congratulate mr füle on his investiture and hope that the excellent impression he made in his appearance before the committee on foreign affairs will be confirmed throughout his term of office in a sensitive dossier such as enlargement. i should like to say a few words about turkey, not without first congratulating the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, on the excellent result achieved in the committee on foreign affairs. the report, which looks ahead to 2008 and 2009, neither exalts nor hides any shadows, highlights the efforts turkey is making to try to meet the copenhagen conditions and criteria. but these efforts, in my opinion, have to be inserted in the context and political circumstances that the country is experiencing: seven years of mr. erdogan's moderate islamist government, with the electoral horizon of july 2011; a country boiling with the mazo and cepo cases; the annulment, in some way, of the emasya protocol, which gave great powers to the military; and, above all, the sentence by which the activities of the democratic society party are annulled. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. turkey must meet the conditions and requirements of the copenhagen criteria and, of course, it must comply with the ankara protocol. but it is clear, commissioner, that in this context and under these circumstances any wrong signal can have very serious consequences for the security of the european union, especially when the ruling party does not have the necessary three-fifths in the house to amend the constitution, and can, commissioner, really generate worrying disruptions in an unstable context in this country which is a strategic partner of the west in the field of the atlantic alliance. the utmost caution in the negotiation process to avoid making mistakes.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, the european union should be closely following the negotiations taking place in cyprus with the leaders of the two main communities at the highest level. turkey is playing a very negative role in these negotiations. it is not supporting a solution in the right direction and therefore the european union must send it an unequivocal message, of course. turkey cannot continue to maintain the 40,000 troops occupying the northern part in violation of international law. turkey cannot continue to occupy the city of famagusta in contravention of the un resolution. turkey cannot continue to send settlers to the northern part of the island who are suffocating the turkish cypriot community. that is the direction turkey is heading in at the moment. the european union - the commission, the council and this parliament - must send a clear message to turkey: 'if turkey maintains this position, it will never be able to join the european union'. that is the message that should be sent at this critical juncture in the negotiations for the unification of the island of cyprus, which is a member state of the union.
madam president, welcome to the commission. in this decade, the enlargement policy has been, with the euro, the most successful of the european union. this policy cannot be stopped. we cannot fail to respect our commitments to the applicant countries, but we must also respect the well-known principles of consolidation and conditionality. we must not forget the union's capacity for integration, nor the need to communicate with citizens about enlargement and its advantages and consequences. given the time constraints, i will make a few brief remarks. in principle, the applicant countries should first resolve territorial and similar conflicts between themselves and with the member states, so as not to hinder the functioning of the union in the future. in the case of turkey, i would particularly like to stress the need to maintain and even accelerate the reforms which are also necessary for turkey itself. i also welcome the recent commitment of this country to nabucco, which is so important for the diversification of europe's energy supply, but i must confess that i was surprised last autumn by a gesture by the turkish government in favour of the iranian authorities. in my view, the foreign policy of a candidate must be closer to that of the union. finally, last week i read an interview with the turkish minister for european affairs, from which i gathered that turkey had abolished visas for countries such as syria, lebanon and libya. i was a little surprised because a candidate country must also bring its visa policy closer to that of the union and not go the other way. i'd like confirmation of this information.
mr president, i simply wanted to inform the house, before we vote on this draft resolution on iran, that there has been an attempted assault on the italian embassy in tehran and that these incidents have also occurred in other member states' embassies, such as those of germany, france, the united kingdom and the netherlands. as paragraph 24 of this motion for a resolution, mr president, calls for the european union to open a delegation in this country, my group would not like the adoption of this paragraph, which has been taken up in other resolutions of the european parliament, to be interpreted as a sign of approval of these events. i would therefore ask mr füle to convey to mrs ashton that this resolution mandate is to be applied in the light of the circumstances i have just mentioned, and i believe that mr gahler will ask for an oral amendment to be added to the text of the resolution in order to protect the diplomatic interests of the member states in that country.
we did not vote on the original text.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the motion for a resolution (rc-b7-0072/2010) on the earthquake in haiti because i believe that it is urgent that civilian professionals, such as doctors, architects and firefighters, be deployed to the area instead of military personnel. the country can only achieve the necessary political, economic and social stability by respecting its freedom as a people against external interference. financial institutions, such as the world bank and the imf, and haiti's trading partners must immediately cancel its external debt. i also support the measures adopted by the countries of the bolivarian alternative for the americas (financial aid through the humanitarian fund, energy support and the promotion of agricultural initiatives and production plans) which are an example of the fraternal bonds of solidarity between peoples. i have voted to show that the reconstruction of haiti cannot be achieved by the militarization of aid, but by ending the mechanisms that cause poverty in haiti, such as the external debt, which i call for to be abolished.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote on resolution rc-b7-0064/2010 on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change because i consider it a failure, given that the copenhagen agreement is not legally binding and does not set global targets for reducing emissions. at this summit, developed countries have not acknowledged their climate debt to developing countries, nor have they lamented the dire consequences of market mechanisms (carbon trading). i have voted to express my deep disappointment at the outcome of the conference, which fell far short of the expectations of the citizens. the european union must, once and for all, take responsibility and do everything possible to reduce co2 emissions by 40% by 2020. i therefore believe that a new economic and social model must be put forward to counter capitalism and i welcome the decision of the president of bolivia, evo morales, to convene the world peoples' conference on climate change and the rights of mother earth.
in writing. - bluefin tuna is in an unsustainable situation and its survival cannot be ensured only by reducing its quota, which, moreover, has always exceeded the limits recommended by the scientific community. the inclusion of bluefin tuna in cites annex i, and therefore the prohibition of international trade in bluefin tuna, is the solution which most likely will ensure the recovery of the species. however, it must be noted that certain fisheries sectors have acted responsibly, respecting quotas and adapting to all the requirements that have been established in recent years. for this reason i voted for the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex i of cites to be subject to the following conditions, as finally adopted: modification of regulation ec 338/97 to create a general exemption for national trade; eu financial support for the fisheries concerned; and reinforcement of controls and sanctions to combat illegal and unregulated fishing. i also voted in favour of postponing the inclusion of tuna in annex i for 18 months, subject to an independent scientific opinion. this proposal was not approved.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote on resolution b7-0069/2010 on the eu strategic objectives for the 15th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) because i believe that bluefin tuna should not be included in appendix 1 to cites. this would mean the end of traditional and sustainable fishing, when the culprits of resource depletion are the ships of the industrial fishing fleet. i am in favour of taking account of the contribution that each fishing system has made to the worrying situation of bluefin tuna, with a new fairer allocation of quotas and greater control of measures. small-scale fishing, which employs thousands of people and is much more selective, should therefore be encouraged. we cannot be unfair: there is a big difference between industrial fishing and traditional craft fishing. i would like to stress that bluefin tuna must be preserved, but we must find a way to achieve a balance that ensures that the species does not go extinct without punishing mediterranean fishing gear such as the almadraba.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on resolution b7-0068/2010 on the 2009 annual report on turkey's progress towards accession because i consider that turkey is playing a very negative role in the negotiations between the president of the republic of cyprus and the representative of the turkish cypriot community. turkey is not complying with un resolutions and is violating international law: it has 40,000 troops in the northern part of cyprus, the city of famagusta is still surrounded and occupied by troops and turkey continues to send settlers to the north of the island. in my view, the eu must accompany the negotiations and send a clear message to turkey that if it maintains its current position, it will never be able to join the european union, as it still occupies the territory of cyprus, an eu member state. the full withdrawal of turkish troops from the republic of cyprus and the return of the city of famagusta is therefore a sine qua non condition in the process of turkish integration into the eu.
mr president, i reject the methods and timing used with the agreement we are discussing today. the role of the parliament is essential under the lisbon treaty and must be respected by all parties concerned. as to the substance of the matter, the greatest damage a democratic society can do to terrorism is to cut off its sources of funding. the provisional agreement must therefore remain in force and coexist with the urgent negotiation of the definitive agreement. on at least nine known occasions swift and tftp have demonstrated their effectiveness and usefulness in preventing and combating terrorist activities in europe, asia, africa and the americas in terms of the text of the interim agreement and data protection. which report should prevail, your honours? the supervisor's or the special judge's, both well founded and both contradictory. no, ladies and gentlemen, there has been no discussion or solution to this problem. the wording of the interim agreement is a guarantor. the data will be processed exclusively for the purpose of preventing terrorism or terrorist financing. no copies of the data provided will be made. no interconnection with other databases will be made. only the state security forces and bodies will have access. i trust the united states government and the great democracy that legitimizes it. we have an obligation to strengthen our relationship with them as natural and mutually reliable partners. i therefore support this house's vote in favour of the interim agreement and i regard it as a very positive gesture that parliament is asserting its right and that clinton and geithner are recognising it as essential in the present and in the future. finally, mr president, the council and the commission also know what to expect. the interinstitutional agreement is urgent.
mr president, the treaty of lisbon has opened a new era for this parliament, but also for the council and the commission. in its speech, the presidency-in-office of the council noted that parliament must be heard and its demands and requirements must be incorporated. secondly, it notes that the negotiation of this agreement has not been done quite well, not done well enough. but above all, it has made a commitment for the future: to negotiate as soon as possible a final agreement satisfying the demands made in the rapporteur's report (demand for guaranteed access to a remedy and the right to know and, where appropriate, modification or deletion of data relating to privacy). it is therefore a question of striking a new balance between privacy, citizens' freedom and security, which is also a fundamental right of the citizens whom we represent in this european parliament. therefore, whatever the outcome of the debate, parliament encourages you, mr minister, to enter into such negotiations as soon as possible and thus satisfy the treaty of lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the 500 million citizens that this parliament represents, who have a fundamental right to security.
mr president, thank you for applying the rules of procedure generously and for allowing two speakers from the socialist and democratic group and also from the group of the european people's party to speak. mr president-in-office of the council, you have put your finger on the problem. most of the debate in this house has been conducted on the basis of respectable arguments. i respect every word. but the spoken words must have a documentary component, an informative component, a knowledge-of-cause component and, frankly, i was very surprised to see certain statements which pointed exactly the opposite way. they give the impression that very few people have read the agreement they are criticising, because if they had read it, they would not have been able to make any argument for the statements made here. so, mr president, what i want to ask you is in relation to what my colleague manfred weber has pointed out and what hennis-plasschaert herself says in her letter (you know that i am in favour of keeping the interim agreement in place in conjunction with the negotiation of the new agreement). as i said, mrs hennis-plasschaert herself says in her letter what manfred weber asks. could the council guarantee that the final text of the new agreement will be presented to parliament in committee in june and in plenary in july, with the involvement of this house?
mr president, on a matter as serious as terrorism we should not wait for events to act. we should anticipate these, but we don't. and unfortunately we are moving forward with a bang, like the failed bombing in detroit, which forces us today to take decisions to ensure the safety of air transport. deciding on body scanners at airports is a responsibility we cannot shirk, ladies and gentlemen. we can't keep waiting, because terrorists don't wait. the commission must therefore ensure as soon as possible that the dignity and dignity of the individual are preserved and that there are no adverse effects on health. this being so, we have to take decisions for the whole of the european union. and to those who fear that fundamental rights are being violated, i will say that there is no higher right than the right to live, and those of us who love freedom above all else need to live in safety in order to feel truly free.
mr president, terrorism is a global threat and tackling it is a shared responsibility. and here too the treaty of lisbon lays the foundations for a common anti-terrorist policy in the european union. i would therefore like to point out, in broad agreement with what i have heard from the council presidency, some of the ingredients which must form the basis of this common policy. the first is the strengthening of information sharing, particularly in efforts to prevent terrorist attacks and in the investigation of financing mechanisms. the second is to apply all scientific and technological advances to the fight against terrorism, in a way that is proportionate to the fundamental rights of the people. thirdly, to act with third countries, especially in afghanistan, pakistan and the horn of africa. fourthly, in the debate on aviation safety, we must ensure that technological advances, body scanners, are compatible with human health, with privacy, but above all that they do not affect the accessibility of airports and the comfort of passengers. but there are three institutional elements: the first is the cosi, the committee on internal security; the second is the anti-terrorist declaration of the last informal council of ministers of the interior (jai) of the european union in toledo; and the third is the transatlantic security space, which must build a very solid cooperation with the united states on this also shared threat.
mr president, before i close, it is a point of order simply to express my surprise, because when the 'catch the eye' appeared i raised my hand thinking that it was starting then and you already had a complete list. i would simply like to see the criteria for the 'catch the eye' approach standardized so that we can all intervene. because, just when it seemed that there were still other colleagues talking you have already told us of a complete list. i therefore simply wanted to express my surprise and ask that on another occasion we all know what we have to do to be able to intervene.
madam president, as the figures for 2009 show and as has already been stated, the financial crisis that started in 2008 has reduced trade figures significantly. in any case, it seems that we have been able to avoid the serious protectionist temptation that did appear during the crisis of the 1930s and it seems that the tendency towards the emergence of new restrictive measures disappeared at the end of last year. this is shown by the fifth report on potentially trade restrictive measures adopted by the commission at the end of last year. however, many countries have taken these restrictive measures: countries with different economic foundations - the united states, china, argentina, russia, indonesia - but also many developing countries. and it is these, the developing countries, that need open markets receptive to their products. that is why i am coming to mr de gucht, as former development commissioner, to ask him to work for greater openness and freedom of trade in the world, for european union leadership in reducing the protectionist barriers of developed countries and for us to move towards greater commitment to trade rounds taking development into account.
thanks kader, but there's always a problem with you on the interpreters side. they keep signaling me that you're not to be followed. so it's good to have a long talk, much longer than the time allowed, but the fact is that there is no interpretation. so you're only followed by yourself and the french speakers in the room.
mr president, the proposal of a free trade agreement between the european union and south korea has been considered unfair and unbalanced by the catalan and the european car industry. this industry and also the european textile sector have expressed concerns on specific issues such as the duty drawback system and the safeguard clause. also, the european trade unions federation has criticised this free trade agreement. south korea has not ratified any of the fundamental conventions of the international labour organisation. south korea persists in repressing trade union rights. moreover, we are aware that, for this free trade agreement with south korea, there was a clear division among the european commission college and also among the european commission services, in particular between dg taxation and customs union and dg trade, on the duty drawback system. for the dg taxation and customs union, the duty drawback system creates economic distortion as it is actually an export subsidy. this should create a clear competitive advantage against european industry in favour of the korean industry in the european union. the same korean trade investment promotion agency has calculated this advantage as at least eur 1 300 per car. therefore, does the new commission consider this free trade agreement a fair trade agreement? will the new commission provide parliament with a full, up-to-date impact assessment and analyses about this duty drawback system?
mr president, commissioner, the position of the european people's party is very clear on the trade policy of the european union: we are strong supporters of free trade and it is of course essential that europe continues to negotiate trade agreements with other countries because they create new opportunities for european businesses, that is, new jobs, which we so badly need in this context of serious economic crisis. i very much appreciate what you have said, commissioner, because i too believe it is very important that these agreements contain sufficient guarantees to prevent the signing of unbalanced and unfair clauses for european industry. the commission has presented the south korea treaty as the first of a new generation of more ambitious trade agreements for europe. that is why this agreement is so important. it is not a question of whether it is a small country or not, but of not weakening our ability to negotiate future agreements with much larger countries. we are therefore not against the free trade agreement with south korea, but we do want to see more rigorous consideration given to certain parts of the agreement which we believe create unfair competitive disadvantages for certain european industrial sectors and unfairly favour korean producers. commissioner, i want you to explain clearly to me why the safeguard clause for duty drawback comes into force after five years. the last time i had a chance to speak to you, you told me that the reason was that the tariffs on vehicles would also be dismantled after five years. the agreement provides for the dismantling of tariffs on vehicles weighing more than 5 tonnes after five years. however, for vehicles below 5 tonnes, which are all conventional vehicles, the 10% duty will be phased out in 3 years. why this two-year time-out, commissioner? i would also like to hear more details of any developments in this area which you have mentioned. what is the point of correcting problems ex post when the value of a safeguard clause is precisely in anticipating possible negative consequences?
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all, with respect to the procedure – because a lot of questions have been asked about that – obviously, this will be the first time that parliament has had to give its consent on the agreement as such and also the first time that the safeguard clauses will have to be adopted by codecision. this has consequences, i think, for the relationship between the council, the commission and parliament. the safeguard clauses are a proposal. the commission adopted its proposal yesterday and it will be presented to the council and parliament very soon. obviously, then, it will be a codecision procedure, so i do not understand the many remarks in which you put questions and express doubts about safeguard clauses. there will only be safeguard clauses that get your agreement, because it is codecision: it is as simple as that. so you should not be so worried about it and about ratification by parliament. that implies, of course, that there will be a debate in your committee. i already said during the hearing that i am not going to make a proposal for an early, provisional application unless parliament has itself pronounced on the agreement, whether as formal ratification by parliament or by some other procedure that we can establish between the inta committee and the commission. that remains open and can be discussed, but in any case parliament will have the opportunity to give its political judgement on the agreement before any proposals for early application are put forward. another question is whether this is a mixed agreement or an agreement which is only about community competences. the legal service is still preparing an opinion on that, but we cannot rule out the possibility that in the end we will have to consider this a mixed agreement, which implies that all the national parliaments will also have to ratify it, and which could also have – in reply to niccolò rinaldi’s question – consequences for the voting procedure in council. so much for the procedure: you will have every opportunity to express yourselves, and we will scrupulously respect this – if we did not do so i think we would get into trouble! lid van de commissie. − de vraag over opel. ik begrijp dat trouwens niet alleen uit belgische hoek, maar ook uit andere lidstaten de vraag over opel komt. wat ik niet goed begrijp is dat men zegt: kijk, er is een rechtstreeks verband tussen het vrijhandelsakkoord met korea en het feit dat men plant dat opel in europa gesloten wordt. opel heeft al sinds begin 2009 aangekondigd dat men de capaciteit in europa wil verminderen met 20%. dat dit kan gebeuren op een zodanige manier dat uiteindelijk alle fabrieken openblijven is juist, op voorwaarde dat dit natuurlijk de houding van opel isals dusdanig, van de bedrijfsvoering. maar ook juist is dat de beslissing om de suv's eigenlijk vanuit korea in te voeren, in ieder geval komt na het akkoord dat met magna gesloten is, maar ook vóór de beëindiging van de onderhandelingen over het vrijhandelsakkoord tussen de europese unie en korea. qua tijdslijn klopt de bewering zowel van mijnheer belet als van mevrouw van brempt niet. het is pas naderhand dat er een akkoord gesloten is met korea. men zou eerder de omgekeerde redenering kunnen maken, denk ik, namelijk dat sommige lidstaten maar akkoord gegaan zijn met een vrijhandelsakkoord met korea op voorwaarde dat zij wisten wat er met opel zou gebeuren. ik denk dat men eerder de omgekeerde redenering moet maken als men kijkt naar de juiste tijdslijn die zich in de praktijk heeft ontwikkeld. ik wil trouwens daaraan toevoegen naar mijnheer belet toe, dat in de vergelijking die hij maakt: korea voert vijftien keer meer wagens in in europa, dan europa wagens uitvoert naar korea, toch een kleine rekenfout in zit. dat kan gebeuren met politici, dat heb ik recentelijk nog meegemaakt in belgië. er worden 37.000 wagens uitgevoerd naar korea en circa 440.000 vanuit korea ingevoerd in europa. bovendien is die redenering ook geen correcte redenering, want dan ga je ervan uit dat je twee even grote markten zou hebben. als je die markten met elkaar vergelijkt en de vaststelling moet maken dat de koreaanse markt natuurlijk veel kleiner is dan de europese markt, dan vergelijk je appelen met citroenen. wat betreft de marktpenetratie zitten wij eigenlijk op hetzelfde percentage van europa naar korea als van korea naar europa, ongeveer tussen de 3 en 4%, dat is waar het echt over gaat. wat eigenlijk een veel belangrijker element is, denk ik, om de marktsituatie in te schatten, is dat er recentelijk door koreaanse producenten grote fabrieken geopend zijn in belgië, met name in tsjechië en in slowakije, die samen ongeveer een half miljoen auto's op jaarbasis kunnen produceren, dus de realiteit is wellicht dat in de toekomst koreaanse wagens die in europa zullen worden geproduceerd grotendeels de wagens zullen zijn die ook effectief in europa op de markt komen. je hebt daar een duidelijke verschuiving. en wat je dus eigenlijk ziet in de ganse automobielmarkt is dat er een verschuiving komt naar de grote markten waar inderdaad wagens kunnen gekocht en verkocht worden. als slotbedenking over de overigens bijzonder spijtige aangelegenheid opel - waarvoor mijns inziens uiteindelijk toch een oplossing komt - denk ik dat men niet uit het oog mag verliezen dat de producenten de cliënten volgen, en niet omgekeerd. dat dat een van de belangrijkste redenen is van bepaalde beleidsbeslissingen in een krimpende europese automarkt en geconfronteerd zijnde met een aantal producenten van wagens die in een moeilijke financiële situatie verkeren. een laatste opmerking misschien over het spanningsveld tussen bilaterale en multilaterale onderhandelingen, een vraag die ook door de heer moreira is gesteld. in het kader van de doha-ronde wordt onderhandeld sinds 2001, al negen jaar. wij hebben nog altijd geen oplossing. ik ben een enorm groot voorstander van het multilateralisme en ik denk dat wij doha ook moeten besluiten op een positieve manier, namelijk met behoud van de ontwikkelingselementen die daarin zitten. en omdat zijn multilateraal kader ook de grootste rechtszekerheid biedt voor de internationale handel. ik denk echter dat anderzijds in afwachting van de afsluiting van doha - naar ik hoop in 2010 of ten laatste begin 2011 - kunnen wij ook niet blijven stilzitten op het bilaterale vlak. wat volgens mij zeer belangrijk is, is dat wij op het bilaterale vlak alleen akkoorden sluiten die verder gaan dan doha, ten einde het besluit over doha niet te ondermijnen. en in die mate dat wij dus hogere criteria stellen. en dat verklaart ook de opmaak van het vrijhandelsakkoord met korea. dat is niet van dien aard, denk ik, dat het multilaterale wordt ondermijnd. als wij zouden onderbieden naar het multilaterale dan zou je dus inderdaad dat effect hebben. maar dat is niet de bedoeling en dat zal ook niet de bedoeling zijn bij de komende onderhandelingen.
the debate is closed. the next session will be held tomorrow, thursday, 11 february 2010, from 9.00 to 13.00 and from 15.00 to 17.00. the agenda is published in the same name as the minutes and on the european parliament's website.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all i would also like to congratulate mrs lynne on the excellent work she has done in our committee, on the ability to reconcile all points of view and on the work she has done over so long a period of time. i congratulate commissioner andor on his work. it is your second day, commissioner; it is a good start to your work at the head of your responsibilities! today, moreover, it also has a second directive, which has long concerned this parliament, such as the one on microfinance. it will also have the honour of solving two problems in two days that open the way to great hopes for many europeans. i also remember commissioner špidla for his help in this dossier. you have been informed, and i will not waste much time in reminding you that this framework agreement is a very important legal instrument for health workers. more than a million accidents are also linked to very serious health problems, such as viral infections, hepatitis c, aids, etc. but it's not just important for health care workers, it's also important for patients in hospitals, for their families. in short, millions of europeans will be better covered by this instrument. we are therefore at the end of a long journey which this parliament began by knocking on the doors of the commission and the council. we must remember the excellent work of mr hughes throughout this long journey. i would like to make a brief assessment of the reasons why the socialist members are very happy today. i think today is a day, too, to say four things. firstly, the importance of health and safety at work: creating the healthiest possible working environment is vital for workers, for families, for citizens. in human terms, we have already referred to all the implications of a regulation of this kind, for them and for the citizens, but also in economic terms. a few days ago in this house the bilbao agency presented some of the campaigns they are carrying out for prevention in the field of health and safety and even showed us economic studies which show that in australia, for example, accidents and illnesses represent more than six points of gdp in the national economy. what's the cost of no social security? what is the cost of poor hygiene and safety at work? it is therefore an investment in human capital, but it is also an investment in civilization and an economic investment. secondly, the importance of prevention: it is much more important to prevent than to cure, to act before phenomena occur in order to prevent them. prevention, which is a complex issue, requires awareness-raising, information, training and monitoring in relation to each of these tasks. thirdly, it is important to talk here today about the importance of the social partners, the importance of trade unions. without them, of course, there would be no framework agreement, but without them there would be no prevention either. people sometimes speak ill of trade unions and say that they are a cost to society but they forget the enormous benefits they bring in as they are the ones who bring to the terminals of the political work centres as important as those in this framework agreement. and finally, the importance of this parliament, which must be vindicated before public opinion and the other community institutions - without this parliament, there would be no framework agreement - and the importance of this parliament's collaboration with the commission and the council, which has been exemplary. i would remind you of the spanish presidency, which has helped us and i hope that it will be a beautiful precedent for a new stage of cooperation between our institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the hennis-plasschaert report to show my rejection of the swift agreement which had been signed by the 27 member states for the transfer of banking data to the united states under the pretext of the fight against terrorism. i consider the united states' claim to be unacceptable and to be contrary to the freedoms and rights of european citizens. with their proposal, the most conservative forces intended to hand us over to american interests, without regard for the security or privacy of citizens. the european parliament cannot allow the civil rights and freedoms of europeans to be violated under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.
author. - mr president, i too have two problems in the case of venezuela: one in form and one in substance. as regards the form, i must say that the epp colleagues, who have been pushing for some time to abuse this debate on human rights violations in order to have a political and partisan debate, are leading us into a complex, complicated situation. it is very legitimate that they want to be partisan; it is very legitimate. but this is not the place. if you want to make statements in support of your friends or, at any rate, criticize governments you don't like, do it in the right context. but let us take this debate on human rights violations and democracy a little more seriously, because if we do not, we will lose all the credibility we have at the moment, which we are clearly struggling to gain on an international scale. there are many flagrant violations of human rights in latin america. let's be consistent too. do we want to talk about human rights in latin america? let's do this in colombia, in honduras, you know. how is it that these issues are never discussed in this house? how is it that we always have this blockage and yet, in a case like today, which is a purely administrative matter, we have this support, we have this presence? it can't be! it cannot be because we have lost - i insist - all credibility and all legitimacy to be able to express an opinion in these kinds of cases. i'll be very clear: i'm not a chavista. and i am in favour of freedom of expression, even for those who hold radically different opinions from mine, here in italy and in honduras. but this is not the debate today. the problem today has to do with an administrative matter, an internal matter of venezuela, a matter which is being resolved and which, according to the information we have, has already been resolved. so, there's not even a case. there's not even a case. if we want to continue to make this debate a laughingstock, let us continue along this path and we will never be able to discuss anything because we will have no credibility. so i urge you, ladies and gentlemen of the epp, to take this debate a little more seriously, or it will clearly be of no use at all in the end.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i agree that there are much more serious problems than this, but it is my obligation, for consistency, to denounce what we are experiencing today in venezuela. i voted in favour of the initiative concerning italy. a few days ago i was denouncing from here a case that occurred with the closure of the only newspaper in basque, in spain, in the basque country, and today i am here to denounce also the closure, in 2007, of radio caracas and, in 2009, of 34 radio stations. i hope and wish that it was just administrative problems and that the rights to these media were restored. but i am concerned to hear president chávez define the new social networks as state terrorism and to see how the internet is at serious risk. it is my duty to defend the rights of individuals, to defend freedom of expression, to defend the right of the media to give free and plural information, because it is to defend the rights of citizens to have information with absolute freedom.
mr president, while for some this is a purely administrative matter, for us it is much more. this is freedom we're talking about. i know that for some people freedom must be defended according to how, according to where. but i also know that for some people, true freedom, their freedom, is that which is administered by some dictators whom they defend and, in some cases, even encourage, and not the freedom of those of us who defend that word in its full breadth, those who believe in free media, those who believe that you cannot seize land by decree, and ask the many thousands of canaries who have suffered that situation in venezuela. we are talking about rights, about plurality and about freedom. sadly, some still do not believe in it.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission takes note of the draft resolutions presented by parliament concerning the situation in venezuela. you can be assured that the commission is following this situation very closely. in this regard, the eu has noted with concern the continued suspension of media, including rctv international. we understand that this is an issue that goes beyond purely legal requirements and needs to be regarded within the context of the question of freedom of expression in venezuela. this has been a cause for concern and has been given high visibility at international level in recent months. for example, in november 2009, the special rapporteur of the united nations human rights council argued that the proposed special law against media crimes in venezuela – i quote – ‘would involve serious violations of the right to freedom of opinion and expression and would curtail press freedom in the country if it is adopted in its current form’. the rapporteur also called on venezuela to fully respect articles 19 and 20 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which venezuela is a party and which guarantees the right to freedom of opinion and expression. you might also recall that, in 2009, the european union issued a declaration concerning those problems, because for us freedom of expression and free access to information are issues that are part of the dialogue that we have with the venezuelan authorities. we deeply deplore that two protesters died and several persons were injured, including members of the security forces and protestors. we share the assessment of the inter-american commission on human rights, which has expressed its deep concern over the serious violent incidents which occurred in the demonstrations both for and against the government of president chávez and which has urged the venezuelan government to control demonstrations – i quote – ‘within the framework of respect for human rights according to inter-american standards’. we are closely following with concern the tendency towards political radicalisation. the september elections are widely seen as a milestone for the future of the country. in that respect, the eu underlines the importance of these elections being held in a peaceful, transparent and fully democratic environment. in the context of the dialogue which the eu is leading with the venezuelan authorities, we have always stressed the importance of fully respecting international obligations and commitments on human rights, including freedom of expression and the press as a cornerstone of democracy and the rule of law. as you know, this principle is enshrined in the eu’s charter of fundamental rights that is now part of our treaties. this puts a specific emphasis on freedom of expression and respect for pluralism in the media, in europe and also in our international relations. the european union, through the european instrument for democracy and human rights, supports the activities of civil society organisations in this very specific area. furthermore we have continuously supported all initiatives aimed at promoting tolerance, spaces for dialogue and mutual understanding. in the name of the commission, i would like to assure parliament that we will continue to follow developments in venezuela closely. our commitment to supporting and strengthening democracy and the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms will be reflected in our cooperation policy and relations with venezuela, in the future as in the past.
mr president, for the 'catch the eye' to work smoothly, the president should look in the chamber to see who is requesting the use of the floor, which i have ostensibly done in order to be able to intervene in the 'catch the eye' of the debate on venezuela. you or your services should look to see who wants to take the floor.
author. − mr president, this is indeed a topic for decision. it is a topic we have to discuss. there is a political crisis in madagascar and this brings us to the necessity of responding accordingly to the necessities also of the country. the power-sharing deal has been negotiated under the auspices of the african union between the current president rajoelina and the former president ravalomanana. there is the maputo agreement and addis ababa additional act, which remain the only political and democratic solution to the current crisis. we must not forget this. the maputo agreement foresees the establishment of a national unity government with a transition period of 15 months. let me signal as well that, after this fact, there are some specific and local situations that are worrying in terms of the government issuing a decree legalising the export of unprocessed and endangered wood threatening the biodiversity of the country. this might cause a lot of problems in the future because they can be lost forever. in this context, we have to remind the commission and the member states that to send an election observation operation to madagascar could be a mistake. we ask not to send a delegation to this country under the current circumstances, to the elections the current government is organising in march, as these elections circumvent the maputo agreement. i insist: in this framework, under this consensus and on the basis of the agreement in maputo, we should not follow this observation election mission. this has to be accompanied as well by full respect of human rights in the country and full respect of democratic principles and the rule of law. if these conditions are fulfilled then we can talk about this, but in the current situation, in the current context, i think it would be a mistake.
author. - mr president, a few months ago i had the opportunity to visit, on the border between thailand and burma, some of the thousands of refugees who are now waiting to be able to return home and, in some cases, simply waiting to spend another day. at that time we also met with some of the opposition groups, including the national league for democracy, whose leader, as has also been said, is the sakharov prize winner aung san suu kyi. on several occasions i have been urged to look very carefully and not to support elections based on a constitutional reform carried out by the junta itself and in conditions, such as those of today, which clearly violate fundamental rights from the point of view of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly and which are clearly a danger for change, for transformation, for democratic reform in that country. it's true that there's been some change. it is true that last year, in 2009, there was a release of some hundreds of prisoners, of which, however, very few were truly political prisoners. the big problem is that there are still more than 2 100 political prisoners and prisoners in burma today. in this context it is impossible to consider free, fair and democratic elections. it is therefore necessary to remember first that the context must be appropriate for such elections to be held. any dialogue that allows us to move forward in this situation will be welcome, but on the basis of the unconditional release of these people, of the guarantee that refugees can return. and in this connection i have to make an explicit request to the commission: it is very worrying that the funds allocated to this area, to these refugees, are being reduced. there are some urgent needs. we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who are demanding our cooperation and, in that sense, i think it would be good not to cut these budgets.
mr president, i believe that this crisis is an opportunity to move forward with firmness and conviction in the creation of a strong europe. in a strong europe, the expression 'improve coordination' will probably have to be abandoned, since it makes everything dependent on the subjects to be coordinated and, strictly speaking, leads to paralysis and indefiniteness. we know that the finances and public debts of the european countries will suffer as long as there is no progress towards european financial integration and no eurobond issues. in any case, the european institutions can already take concrete action, i do not insist on the wording of coordination, and there is the european central bank to harmonize financial supervision and ... (rest of the intervention not available for technical reasons).
(principle of intervention not available for technical reasons) ... if we are talking about the 2020 strategy we are not talking only about the post-lisbon strategy, but about the strategy of the recognition of the failure of lisbon or, to put it more harshly and crudely, of the failure of lisbon; a strategy that was designed to ensure growth and sustainability, but which has not been fulfilled, because it has not been able to ensure sustainability, neither from the financial point of view, nor from the environmental point of view, nor from the social point of view. from the financial point of view, europe has built monetary union, but it is still a long way from building not just the union but even the coordination of economic policy and fiscal stimulus which must accompany monetary union. from the energy point of view, the unity of european policy has yet to be invented, and from the social point of view, europe is being roamed by the discontent of workers, trade unions and the most disadvantaged classes, concerned about the sustainability of the model that has made us better when it has made us european, precisely the model that has been able to ensure welfare and social cohesion. and i would like to ask, in the light of the informal council meeting held on 11 february, what commitment do the council, the commission and all the european institutions intend to make to the social pact, which was the subject of the speech by the president of the union for this six-month period, the spanish prime minister, the president of the european union for six months, josé luis rodríguez zapatero? a social pact that is able to say clearly that this time europe will bet on financial and environmental sustainability and also on the preservation of the social model that has made us better when it has made us european.
mr president of the council and mr president of the commission, i think the music i have heard this evening is very good. i hope that next week the letter will be the same, because that would mean that we have all understood - you too - that we must set ourselves goals and that we can set ourselves goals and that we can choose our future. it would mean that there is no economic determinism, that there is a voice for politics, that there is a voice for citizens, that there is a voice for our future in our own hands, that the economy does indeed set limits for us and provides us with means, but that the objectives are us and that the economy should be at the service of society, and not the other way around. it would mean that we need, as has been said here this afternoon, a long-term strategy, not just a short-term one, because i think that is the lesson of the past. the lesson of the past is that we have had very significant economic growth, but on a speculative basis, on a basis that has not taken into account justice, equity, the environment, the future, future generations. i hope, therefore, mr president, that next week we will have papers with an ambitious agenda, an agenda that points to sustainability, an agenda that makes economic, social and environmental issues compatible - because they are interdependent. and a word about the social dimension of the agenda: there crystallize the demands, the dreams and the fears of the citizens; the dreams and the fears of those inside and outside the labour market, of the victims of the hubris of the financial markets that have taken over the real economy and destroyed it. there is hope that we will set a limit, that we will have a policy for full employment, for quality jobs, for inclusive jobs for all, and that we will finally make europe's aim excellence and not the struggle to lower social standards.
madam president, mr van rompuy, mr barroso - who is not here, but i am speaking to him anyway - it was really very pleasant to see you together, and i think it was because it has been seen that there is a rapprochement, that there is a focus on what should be the foundations of the common strategy over the next ten years, and this is really, in my view, very important. and what has interested me most about the proposal that we have seen in writing and what you have said is that the objectives have to be a few: just the priorities; they have to be tangible, they have to be measurable and they have to be constantly evaluated to see whether or not we are making progress in that direction. i think this is fundamental and a substantive change from the lisbon strategy. i shall emphasize one: the internal market. the european internal market was conceived more than 20 years ago. twenty years later, there is still a long way to go before a truly internal european market is achieved in most sectors. in some cases, because they are so new, like the digital market, but in others we find such fragmentation, such barriers, that we are depriving the european economy of the framework of scale it needs to be able to really develop all the competitiveness it needs and with it growth and with it jobs. mr van rompuy, mr barroso, we need a lot of political impetus, business as usual can no longer be an instrument. it takes a lot of leadership and you have a lot of responsibility. i am sure that you will have my full support to make that possible.
mr president, i think this is an excellent opportunity to affirm the universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights, as this joint motion for a resolution which will be adopted tomorrow does. our parliament has spoken out on a number of occasions, usually in the form of the annual report on the situation of human rights in the world and in the form of various resolutions, as we have recently done in the case of iran. some colleagues have referred, when they have used the word, to the paradox that certain countries with a very bad record in the field of human rights are part of the body responsible for monitoring them, and i think that the case of iran is one of the most obvious. it is not the only one, and i believe that this un body will become inoperative if it really feeds off these countries and will lack all political legitimacy and moral authority to condemn these acts. and speaking of this, mr president, in another part of this parliament we have examined in the last few days, during this very week, the expulsion of a member of this house, of this very house, from cuba. today we mourn the death of orlando zapata tamayo, a 42-year-old bricklayer and political prisoner who died after a hunger strike and after an arbitrary, inhuman and cruel imprisonment. the president of the commission for human rights and reconciliation of cuba, lisardo sánchez, a person very close to the spirit of social democracy, has said that this death was perfectly avoidable and that he considers it a murder dressed in a judicial garb. i ask you, commissioner - we are already familiar with the position of the president-in-office - whether you think that, from an ethical and democratic point of view, in the face of events as regrettable as the death of mr zapata, the commission believes that relations between the european union and cuba should be raised to a higher level and given priority.
mr president, i wanted to say that i have not come to this parliament to applaud the newly introduced abortion law in spain. for me, what concerns me is human life and i am concerned above all - and i am here to defend them - the women whose lives are endangered because of gender violence and i am here to offer them a space in which they can live free and safe. the resolution of this parliament of 2 february 2006 recommends that member states adopt a zero-tolerance attitude towards all forms of violence against women and take the necessary measures to ensure better protection of victims. the stockholm programme, adopted in this house, established an area of freedom, justice and security for all european citizens and it considered the fight against gender-based violence as a priority. it reflected my request to the spanish presidency to promote during its term of office a european order for the protection of victims of gender-based violence, to ensure that victims of these crimes have the same level of protection in all member states. in a europe without frontiers, the fight against gender-based violence should not have borders either and the member states should make efforts to harmonize their legislation so that the fight against ill-treatment of women overcomes legislative obstacles and we can ultimately protect, at least within the european union, the lives of women and their children. i therefore ask the commission and the council to do everything necessary and in their power to ensure the success of this european order for the protection of victims, which is a very effective instrument to combat the impunity of those who do not respect the dignity of women and their right to live free and safe.
mr president, ... (intervention principle not available for technical reasons) ... thirty thousand women joined their voices, their ideas, their projects to advance a more just and more equal society. they came from different places, from a multitude of ideologies and cultures, but they were united in the goal of fighting for the recognition of equal rights and justice, for the social and political participation of women, for the sharing of responsibilities, for the rights to sexual and reproductive health. today, these objectives are more relevant than ever, and the road ahead is therefore important. the resolution therefore raises key issues such as the need for the european commission to develop its strategy for following up the work plan, strong links with the beijing platform, and the promotion of gender equality policies, including the gender perspective in legislative processes. it is important that we do not forget that europe can be a reference point for equality policies in the rest of the world today, but our work and efforts must also take into account all the women who, outside the european territory, suffer from the absolute absence of fundamental rights. we must work for them and for europe.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i agree with all the speakers, all of whom were speakers, except for one speech by mr obermayr, which i agree with only partially, by the way. and i must say that these speeches by the honourable members are the expression of the new stage that is beginning in the european union, also in this area of gender equality. gender equality that doesn't just benefit women. it benefits men too. gender equality is an essential principle of coexistence. that is why i thought that today as many women as men would be taking part, because it benefits us all, not just women, and i think that the european union has made a very smart bet on gender equality. in its article 2 of the treaty on european union, which speaks for the first time, at the level of primary law, of the principle of equality between men and women; in its article 3; in article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which says that all the policies of the union must be guided by the principle of gender equality. all policies: that is, the treaties place the principle of gender equality at the heart of european policies, which has become a core principle of the european union's political agenda. and what we have to do is to put this mandate of the treaty on european union into practice. that is what the spanish presidency wants to do, what the council of the union wants to do and we are convinced that we will have the cooperation of the commission. yesterday, in madrid, we had a meeting with the commission. i am sure that the commission will work very closely with us to make sure that our ambitions on gender equality are realised in this presidency. to begin with, to quote just the nearest thing, there will be an important moment on 8 march - which is working women's day - when the european parliament in strasbourg will discuss precisely the women's charter and when, on the same day, the epsco council will also discuss at its meeting the idea of equality linked to social cohesion, which is another principle of the union, gender equality linked to social cohesion and the eradication of violence. perhaps the most frequently cited in these speeches was the need to eradicate gender violence, which is the greatest scourge we have in our societies, the worst of our societies, which is violence against women. i am sure that the protection order against gender-based violence will be one of the achievements, because we will have to define it as such, as achievements, in the coming months and we will count, i repeat, on the collaboration of the commission and the european parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, the equality directives started in the 1970s and since then many directives have not only changed laws in the member states – there were no laws in the member states at that time – but have created the laws in the member states, the laws of equality between men and women at all levels of our society. nevertheless, and you are right in this, we have good laws but practice does not follow. i believe that the first thing we will have to do is not to create new laws, but see that the laws are de facto applied in society. i dream of a time when we can have a debate in this house and 50% of the speakers are men and 50% are women. i have a dream where we no longer need international women’s day because there is no longer any problem. it is nice to dream, practice is there, and we have to take things in hand. that is why i am very grateful to the spanish presidency which has put the woman question at the top of the priority list. i am very dedicated, together with my colleagues in the commission, to have gender mainstreaming included in all the policies which we are going to present. together with my colleague mr andor, who is responsible for employment, we will see that this is put into practice in the 2020 programme. for the other elements i will, as i have already said, work together with the committee on women’s rights and gender equality on the new strategy for equality where questions such as the gender pay gap and women in decision-making will be high on the agenda because they are real structural problems which we need to solve. but there are also questions of society which go very deep and which we have to tackle with the help of women’s organisations, with the help of the ministers in the member states, with the help of national laws, with the help of european laws, and there is of course the terrible question of violence against women. i believe that this is going to be at the forefront of the work which we are going to lead. i think nevertheless, ladies, that when your strong delegation goes to new york to celebrate 15 years of the beijing platform we should be proud, because if we look at what we have achieved in the last 15 years it is a great deal. all right, we have not yet arrived at where our dreams will lead us, but we have achieved much and, through this experience, we can very much help women on other continents. that will be the subject of the new york meeting. it will not only look at what european women are doing, but also at what european women, european policies, the development policies can do for women in other continents. i also believe in this sense that the charter of fundamental rights, which is a beautiful text which should be read by every child in the european schools and which should be worked on by every student in our universities, really makes the right point: there is no difference between men and women. they are equal and it is our responsibility to see that we speak up when this fundamental question is not put into practice in our application of laws in the member states. it is not only in this place where we should speak up; we should speak up in our member states too and point to the problems which are arising and which are not solved, and not keep quiet until we have solved the problem. i make a call to all the men in this parliament. please join your voices to the voices of the women.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the one-minute speaking time on matters of political importance, pursuant to rule 150. we shall give priority to those members who did not speak at the last part-session under rule 150 over those who did speak last time.
mr president, i would like to make a complaint to this house and ask for your support. the complaint i have is that in the south of the union, in the hardworking and enterprising city of valencia, there is a historic seafaring district, the cabañal district, which at this moment may be destroyed by a plan that the city council wants to implement after almost 20 years of abandonment. the neighbors have risen up against that plan. the ministry of culture itself, at the request of the supreme court, has ruled that there is plunder, and also the constitutional court, recently, has tried to paralyze it or has ruled that it should be paralyzed. the response of the public authorities has been to respond with institutional insubordination, which means risk and danger and bad political pedagogy. the request for support i make is that, in the face of this scenario of plundering the heritage, the help that the neighbours can ask this parliament to give them should be provided to prevent, in a neighbourhood like this, the neighbourhood of cabañal, in the south of the european union, an aberration of this kind, with such barbarity and such depth, from being raised.
mr president, i would like to denounce the situation of the catalan and european swine sector. the price of pigs has continued to decrease for over a year and for several months now has been clearly below the production cost. one of the reasons why it is happening is because of pig imports from emerging countries. in too many cases these imports enter the european union without being sufficiently controlled at european customs. in too many cases, these pig imports do not fulfil several european regulations on quality and food security that the european union imposes only on european producers. it seems that the same will happen in the coming years: increasing animal welfare requirements for european producers but with no controls on imports from emerging countries. this is a clear case of unfair competition. in this way europe will lose its farmers and pig producers and, without them, europe will lose an important part of its agri-food industry. these worries i wanted to share with you.
mr president, as you know, on 11 november this house voted against the terrorist financing monitoring programme, the swift programme. consequently, the agreement has been terminated and no further data is transferred. but on the other hand, the commission has a new negotiating mandate. the question i ask the presidency of the european parliament - not you, but the actual presidency - is whether we have an interlocutor, that is to say, whether the united states, after the failure, agrees to negotiate with the european union or whether it is negotiating on a case-by-case basis bilaterally with certain member states. in any case, mr president, if such a negotiation takes place, i demand, as i believe we all demand, the role of the european parliament in that eventual negotiating phase.
the criterion we use, as you know, is a balanced distribution of the speeches among the different political groups in terms of the weight of the group and also the fact of giving preference to those who did not speak at the previous session. these are the criteria used.
this is what i've explained before, dear colleague. we had three requests for the floor from your group. they all had spoken at the previous session. we have therefore applied this criterion to distribute the interventions in a balanced way.
these criteria are chosen by you or by the services of the session?
the list of members who have requested the floor shows which members spoke, in accordance with rule 150, at the previous sitting. the presidency is now giving the floor to all the political groups. it so happened that the three green group members who had asked to speak had already used the floor at the previous sitting. that is why we have not given them preference. that is what is done, that is, we try to ensure that everyone can speak, in accordance with the weight of the group concerned and with the criterion i have explained to you, concerning those who did not speak at the previous sitting.
it is a criterion which may be very reasonable, but is it contained in any rules or in the rules of procedure of the house?
the presidency, making use of its powers, interprets the good progress of the session in a fair and balanced way for all the groups.
i will inform you right now. mrs paliadeli, you are on the list of speakers from the socialist group. the order of speaking is the order in which you asked for the floor: you are registered in the order in which you asked for the floor. we have given the floor to six members of your group.
chronological order – time order. on this list you were number nine. i shall continue with the sitting. (intervention from the floor)i have explained the criteria. what else do you want to know?
we will take your comments into account.
thank you. i should remind you that mr barroso is the president of the commission, not of the european parliament.
ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very clear. we have a half hour for this shift, i have to adjust to a half hour. you ask for the floor in a number far greater than half an hour, far greater. what the presidency does is to apply rational and fair criteria, and this is part of its powers. i understand your frustration. what we are going to do is, with the director of services for the plenary, to look at a way of being able to have an approximate idea - because it will never be exact, but at least an approximate idea - of which of you are going to speak, in order to minimise the number of those who are waiting. so let's do it with good will and do the best we can. and now, if you'll excuse me, we'll continue the session, because, otherwise, we'll be up all night discussing the same thing. this point is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the commission statement on the serious natural disaster in the autonomous region of madeira.
mr president, sometimes by fires, sometimes by droughts and sometimes by devastating floods like this, the south of the union has become the most obvious and at the same time the most unfortunate scenario to demonstrate the terrible consequences of climate change. if we had a european observatory, it would clearly show that this is the case and that is why the fight against climate change is so important. but it is also important now that we are urgently coming to the aid of madeira in this tragedy, and the commission is urged to act without delay, with the greatest possible urgency. it is at such times that the union must prove itself effective, supportive and close to its citizens, especially those who need it most. we shall support this resolution on behalf of myself and the spanish socialists in support of our dear neighbour portugal and madeira, and we urge the commission to support the portuguese government without delay, without reserve and without sparing any resources, in order to alleviate as far as possible the disastrous consequences of this tragedy.
madam president, proof of the confidence of the members of this parliament in the members of the committee on budgets is that we are voting for a substantial increase in parliament's budget, including the parliamentary assistance allowances of members, and we are practically alone here, four or five members of the committee on budgets. it's a good sign that they have confidence in us. however, if two coordinators from groups such as the s&d group and the ppe group are here, it is to confirm that we are in full agreement with this increase in the budget, since we consider that it does not violate the austerity rules that we have imposed on ourselves. the european parliament is a very special institution, as my colleague mr färm knows. if in sweden or spain we were continually increasing our regions, our members and our functions, any member state would need to increase the budgetary allocation of its parliament. this is what is happening in the european parliament and we must therefore vote in favour of it. it is true that in the coming years we will have to make this expenditure sustainable and that will mean that we will have to talk seriously about housing policy, the future personnel policy, office equipment. all this must be seen in the future through sustainability and cost-effectiveness. the bureau of parliament and the committee on budgets have adopted some divergent positions, because the bureau defends the needs of members and we in the committee on budgets defend austerity and budgetary reality. but i think the agreement was good and that we can really vote tomorrow without any problem.
mr president, yesterday, because of the pace of the house's work, there was no opportunity to make at least one mention of orlando zapata, whose death the spanish delegation deeply regrets. he died after a long hunger strike. he is the first prisoner of conscience to die in cuba in the last forty years, and from here we call for the release of all prisoners of conscience in cuba and the rest of the world, and we express our solidarity with the family and with the people of cuba on their path towards pluralism and development. this sad occasion can be a stimulus to start a reflection aimed at putting relations between the european union and cuba in a comprehensive bilateral framework that establishes a permanent and constructive dialogue on human rights, on an equal footing with the agreements that the european union has with third countries.
the next item is the report by mrs maria do céu patrão neves, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy (com (2009) 0163 - 2009/2106 (ini)) (a7-0014/2010).
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, mr. martin fragueiro, and welcome, and thank you, mrs. damanaki. i too am opening today on the subject of fisheries and we are facing a major challenge. we are obliged to define responsibly the guidelines that will guarantee the sustainability of the seas, of fisheries and, ultimately, of the planet itself. we are also talking about an important productive fabric that affects our countries, our coasts, our regions - an economic and cultural fabric with many values - and, as you have very well said, mrs damanaki, there are problems with the 2002 reform. we must review the principle of relative stability, we must look for new management formulas which are more flexible, more adaptable, because the issue of tacs and quotas has been problematic. they have had problems with the famous issue of discards, discards that neither the fishermen nor the planet itself can afford. the future reform of the cfp must ensure a sustainable fisheries system and we call for a new management system based on fishing effort. we have to open up, we have to think and we have to try to make the management situation more flexible. we must introduce, to a large extent, environmental criteria, the differentiation between bottom fishing and high-altitude fishing. it's important, it's something the whole sector is demanding. we must reduce the overcapacity of some fleets. the common organization of the market, the question of stabilizing the market and how to reconcile it with the import of fish from third countries remain unresolved. the fight against illegal fishing, which has been denounced and has so far been ineffective, needs more means, more resources, unification of sanctions, international agreements based on principles of legality, on principles of human rights, on principles of compliance with agreements. a financial framework, which you have said must be more effective, must be more effective than current policy. and above all, the social factor: we are talking about people, we must give them dignity, give them a professionalism, give them a professional recognition, give them an economic capacity to survive. and, of course, the integration of women, that invisible part that has never been seen in the fishing world. we must make it clear and we must make an effort to do so. reform of the fisheries policy is more than just making legislation. it is addressing an important part of the reform, from the european union, that will ensure the sustainability of the seas, of fishermen and of part of the world. so we have to be brave in the face of challenges, and to be brave is to face politics without fear. and the fears, of course, we have to let go. we must look at the situation head on and maintain the balance of the state itself, the european union itself and the world itself.
mr president, we are risking everything in this reform. if we do not act now, there will be no more opportunities to create a real fisheries policy and we will be partly responsible for the failure. the cfp has been subject to increasingly justified criticism for years and it is discouraging that, when we are given a last chance, this parliament is not able to propose alternatives to what we have so often criticised and, in particular, to the obvious failure, both because of the state of the resources and the decline of the sector, of a conservation and management system. it is incomprehensible that they are afraid to suggest clearly alternatives to those already discussed in this house in 1996, such as transferable quota systems or effort management, which have produced such good results and could help to maintain at least the most industrial fleets. the report says that there cannot be a one-size-fits-all solution, but at the same time it excludes the possibility of different solutions. i do not understand the contradiction, nor do i understand that if someone does not want to use an instrument, the solution is to ban it for everyone. this is not protection of the weakest, it is fear on the part of certain sectors who see only solutions in permanent subsidies. the cfp should also be a guarantee of competitiveness in a globalised world of fisheries products, whose market will undoubtedly continue to grow, but without us, it seems. the community's policies should be coherent and we cannot allow trade policy and rules of origin such as those resulting from the new economic association agreements to destroy the competitiveness of community fisheries without providing third countries with nothing but mere gestures, at the expense of our fishing industry. mr president, consensus is good when it is achieved to move forward, not at the expense of standing still in the face of problems, and we have many problems to solve.
mr barreiro, mrs damanaki, we need clear objectives, courage and to avoid another failure; the key to this is participation. the extractive sector and the processing industry are the first stakeholders in the sustainability of fisheries, which is why their involvement in the design of the reform or their participation, as in 2009, in the revision of a control regulation, which should have been drawn up in a more open way, is basic to meet the objectives of the reform: to have a sustainable and profitable sector and to guarantee supply. the other keywords are: regionalization, responsibility, stability and justice. regionalization, to take account of the specificities of each area and type of fishing, separating artisanal from industrial; responsibility, giving priority to good practices and efforts to reduce fishing capacity already made; stability, through long-term management plans based on increasingly sound scientific activity; and justice, by revising the sector's cmo and offering inspection and control activities by third countries to encourage sustainable behaviour in the sector. and justice, too, for the women of the sea, forever forgotten in this sector; without their work, fishing, in many parts of the world, would be impossible.
mr president, the reform of the common fisheries policy plays an important part in the future of europe. the fisheries sector is a means and a way of life in our coastal areas, the basis of our canning industry and marine research. it is fundamental to the safety, quality and price of the food supply to our consumers. it is also for foreign relations and development. the reform must be geared towards responsible, sustainable and competitive fishing. it must emphasise its social dimension, have an ecosystem approach and be integrated into marine policy. the conservation and recovery of resources must be ensured and the principle of relative stability must be reviewed. the management policy based on tacs and quotas should be open to the management of fishing effort. we must increase control and eradicate unfair competition. the small-scale fishing fleet and areas highly dependent on fishing need differentiated treatment and greater socioeconomic support. the shellfish sector must be fully integrated into the common fisheries policy. i support the report and congratulate the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs on the commitments they have made. i ask the commission and the council presidency to take this very seriously in their future work.
mr president, i too would like to take this opportunity to stress the points which some of us believe should be central to the outcome of the report we are about to vote on. i would remind you of some of these points: the precautionary principle, which is fundamental and essential; capacity reduction, which is absolutely essential; limitation of public subsidy policy; improvement of the control and prosecution of crime, without respite and with clear consequences for those who do wrong and encourage others to do wrong; but at the same time, we must promote sustainable arts and crafts, sustainable fishing, which necessarily implies making progress in defining what we mean by artisanal fishing, which indeed needs greater concreteness. i would also like to mention the role of women and the recognition we owe to their work, on which we have also tabled amendments. finally, i think it is important to stress and call for greater coherence and responsibility in fisheries agreements with third countries; those concluded with morocco and guinea, for example, oblige us to do so.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i too would like to thank mrs patrão neves for her work. so far, as regards the discussions that have taken place in the council, i must say that the ministers have unanimously supported the need for reform, consisting in simplifying the rules, in strengthening the role of the regional level and in decentralising decision-making, except for the strategic elements and principles, and they agree that discards, overcapacity and overfishing must be reduced. the specific points of convergence so far are: the maintenance of the current rules for access to the 12-mile zone, long-term management of resources, greater partnership between fishermen, market incentives - such as labelling and certificates - to stimulate the share of fishermen's overall income, the use of subsidies only as exceptional measures to reduce excess capacity, the importance of research in fisheries policy, the integration of aquaculture, the relationship of the cfp with the integrated maritime policy and the need to maintain and increase the european union's action at international level. the discussions so far have also revealed divergent positions on the following issues: relative stability, the current system of tacs and quotas and the use of transferable quotas, effort limitation as a management tool, methods to reduce discards, overcapacity and overfishing, and global financing and its allocation, as well as increased support for small-scale fishing and coastal communities. as i said at the beginning of my speech, the council has not yet adopted a position; it is not planned to take formal decisions until next year, when the commission has formally presented the legislative proposals. and finally, i would also like to welcome the fisheries sector, which is present here in this chamber today.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their contributions. having so many speeches is very encouraging. i understood that the word mentioned most was sustainability, so sustainability is a general agreement, a framework for general agreement. i cannot answer all the points that were raised but i would like to underline some priorities. small-scale fisheries and coastal regions are a priority. i would like to reassure all of you that i will take your contributions on this issue very seriously. i would also like to reassure you that i have no intention of introducing heavy measures and rules on hobby anglers. second priority: regionalisation. i would very much like to discuss with you in further detail exactly what we are doing to implement this principle. because here we have a lot to talk about. transferable fishery rights: this is, i understand already, a very engaged debate with a lot of arguments. i do not know what will happen during the vote, but we cannot ignore this issue. a lot of member states are implementing this system already. so what i propose is having a clear discussion, maybe within the committee on fisheries. since this is not the end of the dialogue we can have a clear discussion about itqs – i see mrs fraga is here – we can organise a good discussion to understand the whole issue. just to mention some other priorities: a clear level playing field for the mediterranean and the other areas as regards fishermen from other countries – this correct, we have to do it to secure fair competition for our fishermen and fisherwomen; phasing out discards; labelling. these are our priorities. i would like to end by underlining the need for a new form for fisheries agreements; a new form that will include a human rights clause. thank you for your contributions. i think that this is not the end of the dialogue; this is the start of a very good debate between us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on railway safety, including the european signalling system.
mr president, yesterday, during the debate on the motion for a resolution which we are going to vote on, we noted with regret the death of orlando zapata tamayo, a 42-year-old cuban mason and political prisoner, who died after a hunger strike and long years of arbitrary, unjust, inhuman and cruel imprisonment. commissioner georgieva made a strong and firm condemnation of these events yesterday in the house. i ask the president, on behalf of the house, to convey his condolences to the family of mr zapata, who are being harassed at his funeral. i ask you to convey your strongest condemnation to the cuban authorities for this perfectly preventable death, which has been described by the president of the cuban commission for human rights and reconciliation, elisardo sánchez, as a murder covered up in judicial clothing, and i hope, mr president, that this death will serve as a wake-up call to those who, in good faith or out of naivety, want to change the council's common position, an honourable position which does nothing but link any improvement in relations with the island to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, which, as we have seen, are being continually trampled upon. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. − this regulation is very important, as it seeks to ensure that the commission has accurate and regular information on investment projects in energy infrastructure, both at national and cross-border level, so that the union can ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and the energy security of all member states. the aim is to update the 1996 regulation with regard to the union's commitments on security of supply, climate change and renewable energy in the context of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this report is of particular interest because it reinforces the character of the early warning system in the event of a deficiency in the interconnections. the committee on industry, shipping and energy in this parliament has always insisted on the need to achieve 10% interconnection between member states, as set out by the european council, and any provision which highlights the shortcomings in this respect is very positive. that is why i voted in favour of this report .
in writing. − i voted in favour of the final resolution mainly because during the vote we managed to get: co-decision: this is a huge victory,since for the first time we now the tfeu (lisbon treaty) legal basis on energy to get co-decision against the will of the commission. even more historic, for the first time since i worked in this house, we managed to get rid off the euratom treaty as legal basis although this regulation covers also transparency for investments in the nuclear sector. this has been confirmed by the positive vote on am 30 listing nuclear fuels as a primary energy source under the scope of the regulation. for sure, we will have to fight now to maintain this victory in the upcoming tripartite negotiations with council and com; ms must provide, at least five years before construction starts, the amount and types of investment in energy projects. this is a really wise move towards better future energy scenarios, since the commission will get a better idea of how the energy market is evolving; renewables, including decentralised ones, will have to be fully considered; every single mention of 'low carbon', the pro-nuclear trojan horse has been deleted. on the negative side, we tried -without success- through our ams in plenary to get better transparency, including in the part of the investments that will be paid by tax payers money and public consultation although we managed to get lighter wording on consultation and access to documents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the final text of the resolution, among other reasons, because it kept the paragraphs related to the joint study related to the existence of secret detention centres, the necessary implementation of the recommendations of the goldstone report and the icc, and because it included also the amendment on western sahara tabled by gue. i am also glad that the request made by brok to have a separate vote on the paragraph dealing with the diffamation of religion was rejected and that the paragraph stated as follows: 10. reiterates its position with regard to the concept of "defamation of religions" and while recognising the need to fully address the problem of discrimination of religious minorities, considers that the inclusion of this concept in the protocol on complementary standards on racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and all forms of discrimination is not appropriate; calls on un member states to fully implement the existing standards on freedom of expression and on freedom of religion and belief; we wanted to keep this sentence because we are of the opinion that we don't need a new legislation at the un level which should deal with the concept of defamation of religions as we already have international standards, notably the protocol mentioned preventing discrimination of religious minorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the final text of the resolution because it included our petitions to the eu commission to take into account in it's 2010-2014 roadmap not only the economic and financial crisis but also the impact of climate change on women; on the fact that inequality and gender stereotypes in the eu still persist with women remaining in a position subordinate to men in the areas address in the beijing platform; and because it promotes gender equality especially in terms of paternity leave.
in writing. − i abstained in the final vote on the report neves patrao because it contained both, positive and negative paragraphs. in one side, agrees that priority access should be given to those who fish in the most environmentally sustainable way, leading to fewer discards, more jobs and less energy use, and stresses that the right to fish must be based on environmental and social criteria, rather than on who caught the most fish 30 years ago. it is years of overfishing that has led to the current crisis, so it is absurd to let the same fleets continue the damage. other positive points include making ecological sustainability the basic premise of the cfp and the recognition that eu fleets must no longer overfish in the waters of developing countries. unfortunately, less constructive ideas are also in the report, such as a refusal to accept the destructive influence of subsidies. the report also declares the cfp to be the dominant policy in the eu, with environment and development policies being subservient to it. it is this "preserve the fishing industry at all costs" attitude that has led to the destruction of the marine ecosystem and the fishing communities that depend upon it.
mr president, a judge at the spanish national court has confirmed what many of us already knew: that the president of venezuela, hugo chávez, is collaborating with terrorists from eta and the farc. this fact proves that chávez is an accomplice of the terrorists, that he gives shelter on venezuelan soil to the terrorist murderers and that he helps them by giving them institutional positions in the venezuelan government. in short, chavez is a collaborator of the eta criminals. as a basque, a spaniard and a european, i denounce and condemn the abominable attitude of this dictator leader called hugo chávez, and i urge the european institutions to take all the necessary measures to condemn chávez and thus punish his policies of support for terrorists. and i remind the presidency of the european union, that is to say the government of mr rodríguez zapatero, that with chávez there are no more compadreos, warmth and embraces as hitherto, no more gestures and collaborations, because when the spanish government, as we have seen in these days, disdains and humiliates itself before chávez, it is punishing the victims of terrorism and it is disregarding spanish justice and thus punishing freedom and democracy.
mr president, fidel castro and his oligarchy have long since put an end to the ideals of the cuban revolution which had such an echo and such an illusion for the peoples of the whole world, for the most prominent of the international youth. what characterizes the castro brothers' dictatorship at the moment, however, is their impiety towards political and prisoners of conscience, their impiety towards their own people. it reminds me of dying franco, for the mistreatment of political prisoners, whom he also considered ordinary, and his same obsessive contempt for the exiles. castro ends up like franco and all the enemies of freedom when they get into power. but we must save lives and be in solidarity with those who struggle and suffer. it is our duty as europeans committed to democracy, freedom and human rights.
mr president, the spanish government has asked the venezuelan government for an explanation of the fact that a judicial order has established that the venezuelan government is allegedly collaborating with eta. and mr iturgaiz should update his information, because on saturday there was a joint communiqué from the government of venezuela and the spanish government in connection with this incident, confirming the collaboration and the willingness of the government of venezuela to cooperate seamlessly with spain in its fight against terrorism. we should all be glad of this and congratulate the government of venezuela on its expressed willingness to cooperate with the government of spain in the fight against terrorism and the fight against eta, rather than launching incendiary messages or trying to politically exploit a fact as serious as terrorism. i believe that judicial independence, diplomatic relations and, above all, cooperation between states must be respected in order to fight against terrorism, which is such a serious issue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for my intervention is to highlight and denounce the application of the spanish government's coastal law and, in particular, its application to the island of formentera. formentera is part of the balearic islands, from tip to tip it is 19 km and its perimeter is 69 km. the application of this law, which is good for some areas where there has been devastating urban development, is not good on the island of formentera because it means that most tourist facilities - which are what the island lives on and have been legally established for 30 to 40 years - cease to exist and that, therefore, small family businesses are confiscated. i give as an example the hotel rocabella, which was the first hotel on the island, or the bar restaurant blue bar, which is internationally known and has served to promote the island abroad. application of this act would affect 70% of these facilities, legally established when they were created; therefore, application of this act would make no sense other than confiscation. that is why we are calling for a fair demarcation for the island of formentera, that is, for the spanish government to draw a new demarcation line, which respects private property, as the court of strasbourg has repeatedly said, and that a law with retroactive effects should never be made which harms the way it is doing, especially when all these facilities were built with respect for the environment and, moreover, the national and local laws themselves protect the coast - you cannot build less than 300 metres from the coast or expand the hotel offer.
mr president, i regret that it is preferable to congratulate chávez, who collaborates with the terrorists and has eta leaders in his government, as some people have done here, because in my case and that of my group, between chávez and the judge of the national court of a state governed by the rule of law, as is mr velasco, we have no doubt that we will support the judge of the national court. and if mr zapatero, instead of being a friend and instead of humiliating himself before chávez, treated him as what he is, a philoterrorist, another cock would sing in the international credit of spain's foreign policy.
mr president, commissioner, the crisis has shown that the european union has no instruments to counteract its effects and to steer economic recovery in the right direction. it is therefore necessary to formulate a common response based, in addition to the coordination of member states' strategies, on the european union's own instruments, which give it a real capacity to act in order to provide an immediate and comprehensive response. the first objective should be to provide the union with greater and better economic governance and, to this end, greater financial autonomy. in this context, a financial transaction tax designed to fulfil a triple function is of great interest, because it is necessary to strengthen the european union's capacity to develop its own policies; because it is necessary to provide greater stability to the economy by curbing speculative operations; because it is necessary to provide the information needed to monitor the evolution and situation of financial markets; and also because, in designing this tax figure, the financial sector should be sought to contribute to repairing the damage in the real economy and to covering the expenses and costs of stabilising the banking system. commissioner, can you give us a calendar?
mr president, mr commissioner, the financial and economic crisis has allowed a proposal that failed to prosper two decades ago to be discussed and debated at this moment. today it is not only the academic world or minority or protest sectors that are proposing it, but the g-20, the international monetary fund and some of the leaders of the most developed countries are proposing the introduction of this rate. we have to take the opportunity because this is the moment. as a member of the committee on development, i support the idea that, if this tax is introduced, a part of the revenue should be used to finance development. the commission considers that the measures at issue are imputable to the state and that the commission has not found any evidence that the state has exercised a dominant influence on the financial sector. a part of this revenue should therefore be devoted to development aid.
mr president, the 2008 competition policy report introduces a chapter on cartels and consumers, reports on the imposition of coercive fines for the first time, and includes important initiatives such as the guidelines accompanying the energy package and a white paper on actions for damages for infringement of competition rules. it addresses the role of competition policy in the crisis, the effects of which have helped to stabilise and mitigate state aid. in the pending exit process, the distortions caused must be corrected and a level playing field restored, avoiding moral hazard. this report calls for a horizon for the automobile sector, attention to the problems of smes and an investigation of the food chain with follow-up measures for dairy products. it also advocates a more sophisticated and legitimate competition policy, reinforcing the role of parliament. that is why we support it and i congratulate the rapporteur on the result achieved.
i declare the 2010-2011 session of the european parliament open.
the first item on the agenda is the very important joint debate on three reports dealing with the internal market and consumer protection: the report by róża, gräfin von thun und hohenstein, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the indicator chart for the internal market (sec2009) 1007 - 2009/2141 (ini)) (a7-0084/2009), the report by anna hedh, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on consumer protection (2009/2137 (ini)) (a7-0024/2010), and the report by cristian silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on solvit (2009/2138 (ini)) (a7-0027/2010).
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr carlos coelho on his excellent work and, above all, on the high level of consensus reached with the council, the commission and the various groups in this house. here we will find, thanks to your work, few discrepancies. the european union is the largest area of freedom known. all obstacles to the free movement of european citizens and third-country nationals legally resident in a member state must be removed. the absurd situations often faced by holders of long-stay visas of the type 'd' must be definitively ended. as you know, long-stay visas entitle their holders to reside in the member state which issued them. however, holders of such visas may not freely transit through the union except to go to the issuing state. paradoxically, the situations already described as examples occur very frequently. i'll say one more: the student who is preparing his doctoral thesis in lisbon on american history and can't go to consult the legacies and documents in the archivo de indias in seville, which is an hour away by plane. the proposal is intended to give long-term visas the same effect as a residence permit. it is a question, ladies and gentlemen, of facilitating the principle of mobility: mobility for essentially work purposes and mobility for scientific and study purposes. i would like to end by asking all my colleagues to support mr coelho's report - a request which is completely unnecessary in the light of what we are seeing - not only because of its extraordinary quality but also because it is a further guarantee in favour of the great area of freedom of movement which we are defending. i also support, dear carlos, the timetable you have proposed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report because it supports the commission's proposal to extend the transitional regime for rabies, bringing it to an end in a way that better coincides with the period when the european commission expects to conclude community financing of vaccination programmes aimed at eradicating wild rabies, the main rabies problem in the eu, in some member states. in addition, the commission has adopted a prudent precautionary approach, which emphasises prevention and additional health considerations related to the internal market and the free movement of pet animals. the commission has compared and examined the different policy options, taking into account the different opinions of the european food safety authority (efsa). the proposed date for the end of the transitional arrangements will allow for the conversion of infrastructures and gradual vocational retraining as well as the adaptation of the on-site staff to the new situation.
in writing. − i voted, together with my group, in favour of this report because it points out that the proposals made in this framework seek to make it easier for third-country nationals legally residing in a member state to move in the schengen area on the basis of a d long-stay visa issued by that member state. they are intended to provide a response to situations where member states are unable, for various reasons, to issue residence permits in time to third-country nationals residing in their territory, by extending the existing principle of equivalence between a residence permit and short-stay c visas to long-stay d visas. a long-stay visa will thus have the same effect as a residence permit as regards circulation in the schengen area. this will make it possible for anyone in possession of a document showing that he is legally resident in a member state to move freely in the schengen area for short periods of no more than three months in any half year.
in writing. − i, together with my group, the greens/efa, voted in favour of the in’t veld report on the annual report on competition policy (2008) because it provides an opportunity for parliament to set out its priorities and its assessment of the way the commission conducts its competition policy. i am glad that, in line with the vote in the econ committee, the in’t veld report was adopted (as expected) by a large majority (greens in favour, as in the case of major political groups).
in writing. − i finally decided to vote against the report because we failed in eliminating article 10 from the text. the maintenance of this article is crucial because it calls for establishing systematic ‘internal market tests’ in order to verify ex ante whether eu legislative proposals comply with all internal market rules.
mr president, i begin by congratulating lívia járóka on her defence of the roma people before the european institutions. it is important to remember that she and the epp have drawn up the first european strategy on the integration of the roma minority, proposing concrete community actions in favour of more than nine million citizens living in the european union. the situation of the roma population is different from that of other national minorities in europe, and specific measures should therefore be taken in their favour. the second summit on the roma population in cordoba should be a forum for courageously addressing the problems of this community and for defining specific instruments, both financial and legal, in favour of a minority which must be the indispensable protagonist in shaping its future, forgetting paternalistic policies. i agree that no one has the legitimacy or the right to make political publicity at their expense. only multidisciplinary and coordinated action between the commission, the council and the member states can bring about positive results in favour of the roma population. the various european commissioners involved must coordinate their action in order to put an end to any exclusionary and discriminatory behaviour. the council, together with the member states, should promote the full integration of the roma population. finally, it is the responsibility of the states to promote measures to combat the discrimination to which the population is often subjected. access to healthcare, quality education, continuing training and vocational retraining are essential objectives for access to decent employment and full participation in civil society. and it is essential, in this sense, that local authorities should be involved - i know very well what i am talking about. 'everything for them but nothing without them' and here in this house, mr president, there are excellent roma members of parliament.
mr president, the ten million roma in europe would constitute a medium-sized state in the european union if they were a state. but they're not. the gypsy people have always put their europeanism above any borders. they are second-class citizens because of the discrimination they have historically suffered, not only in education, health and housing, but also as migrants, which is precisely what they are. the council of europe's commissioner for human rights has said that roma migrants are not treated in certain european union countries in the same way as other european migrants, in a flagrant violation of the right to free movement. the socialists are committed to a europe where ethnic and cultural minorities are recognised and respected, where we move towards an inclusive european citizenship and an area of equality, freedom and coexistence in diversity, and we therefore welcome the directive on non-discrimination in all areas, a directive which has not always been supported by all the groups in this house. and we also welcome the spanish presidency's programme in this area, which we believe is necessary because there can be no more delay in promoting initiatives at european level which recognise and support the roma people. the cordoba summit, under the spanish presidency, is a great opportunity to launch a comprehensive project for the roma people, which will leave behind years of silence and racism.
mr president, there is very little to add – just a plea. as has been said, let us not forget that the roma summit was an initiative of this parliament and it was tabled during the slovenian presidency, aimed at bringing together the eu governments to work together on roma issues. this is another reason for this parliament to be active on this issue. the greens differ, however, and we will not be proud if all member states do not admit that we can do better in the roma issue. issues like this one have to form part of a joint call for a european strategy for roma inclusion. we need that strategy; we need that strategy because the european union is also losing credibility at international level. many countries are singling us out because of this issue. this is important as well because, even in the past, we understood that this is something that has to do with human rights and social inclusion. we understand as well that it is a question of politics. it is in the framework of political debate that we have to understand that a necessary solution has to be sought.
mr president, yes, my country, like twenty others, is listed in the notice sent in october 2009, and i can assure you that it has been put on the back burner since then. it is not for nothing that spain leads the list of growth in rail passenger transport in the european union in 2007-2008. but the goods are something else. but i ask you, commissioner, in a peripheral country separated from the rest of europe by a mountain wall of more than 500 kilometres - the pyrenees - which can only be crossed by rail at both ends and which requires a change of axles for each of the trains crossing the border because of the different track gauges left to us by a long history of local authorities, what incentive can other operators have to cross the border with france with so many obstacles? even db just bought or has bought transfesa but still has it very difficult too. that is why i sincerely believe that, in addition to the stick of warnings and sanctions that my colleagues are asking for, we also need the carrot of european ambition in infrastructure. the transeuropean networks are urgent. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure in the community. this will force the most protectionist or reluctant member states to join the north-south and east-west railway flow that europe needs for its 2020 strategy.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. and we do so, essentially, mrs. ashton, because we have come to a conclusion. in the countries around us, in the european union, today's defence and security policies have nothing to do with defence of the territory: today's security policy is a projection of foreign policy. we believe that the first objective in foreign policy should be to achieve international disarmament: a zero-point of armament, and to do so with pragmatic policies which make it possible to respond to what is creating insecurity in the world today. the main weapon of mass destruction in the world today is hunger and poverty. and that weapon cannot be put before military force. we therefore believe that, on the basis of this consideration, we should opt for a transitional security system which would allow for the progressive demilitarisation of all security in the world and, of course, we do not support the linking of the european union to nato, not least because nato, in its strategic concept, has opted for a military response to insecurities such as organised crime or terrorism, which have never been the subject of a military response. i believe that this growing militarization is forcing member states to have ever more powerful arms industries, to have more military spending on arms. we are at the height of civilization and armament, more than in the cold war, which has nothing to do, therefore, with pragmatic policies that move towards demilitarisation. no, neither terrorism nor organized crime should be a military objective, but a goal of the police, of the international judicial services, of the intelligence services, to bring criminals to justice, but they should not be the object of a military response. and therefore, we do not share that military approach. we do not agree that the european union has american military bases on its territory. we do not wish this for any state, we do not wish for any powerful state to be able to deploy military force in the world, and that is why we believe that respect for international law is very important. we do not support the recognition of kosovo - no recognition of any state that is based on the use of force outside international law - because we believe in international law, and that is why we believe that western sahara should be included in this report - this process of decolonisation. and of course, we call for the withdrawal of troops from afghanistan, which, as nato itself acknowledges week after week, is producing innocent civilian casualties. it is not our way, therefore, of militarization.
mr president, the union's foreign policy is entering a new phase, as mrs ashton and mr albertini have stressed this morning. article 21 of the treaty lays down objective principles. in addition, new figures are being created, with a high representative who is also vice-president of the commission, a permanent president of the european council, the european external action service, a new security and defence policy, the subject of my colleague mr danjean's report, etc. these innovations are intended to ensure a more effective projection of the european union in the world, and i believe that summits with third countries remain an ideal instrument for this. well, the european union doesn't have many summits with individual countries. we must take care of them. last week's meeting with morocco was the first with an arab country and also symbolized the granting of advanced status to that country. i wish you, mrs ashton, had come. i also regret the absence of the king of morocco. with the latter absent, a summit that should have been historic lost in public projection, in significance and in effectiveness. i hope that the euro-mediterranean summit in barcelona will be a success also at the level of the delegations. and on the other hand, i regret that the summit with president obama scheduled for spring is not going to take place. as the albertini report points out, the treaty of lisbon provides a favourable framework for strengthening the mechanisms for dialogue with the united states. this reinforcement and other issues could have been addressed at the summit. the european union and the united states should not miss an opportunity to address at the highest level the bilateral issues, conflicts and global challenges that are now piling up on the world agenda. it would be paradoxical, and i end by saying that, now that we have the treaty of lisbon, we risk falling into irrelevance in this world that some already call 'post-western' or 'post-american'.
mr president, we believe that the new institutions require some time to settle down and we also believe that we should not lose sight of the target. the important thing is not, as some are calling for, a ubiquitous presence of the high representative in all the tentacles of european foreign policy. the important thing is that the european union is present on the international scene with the capacity to intervene to defend its positions. that is what the two reports we are debating today say. that is why we are in favour of a comprehensive policy of the european union, of cooperative relations with all the countries with which we have interests, especially in the field of human rights, from belarus to cuba. with all the countries with which we have an interest in human rights, in security and in global challenges, because the european union can make a difference, as has already been proved by the joint position of a majority of member states obtained under the spanish presidency in the human rights council in geneva and as must be achieved in the middle east or in cuba. the european union's external action is taking a proactive and renewing step forward. we want a strong and genuine european external action service which supports the work of the high representative and which also responds to the aspirations of this parliament.
mr president, baroness ashton, you have described operation atalanta in the horn of africa against piracy as a success. however, last week there was a massive pirate attack on basque, spanish and french fishing boats, which has forced the fishing fleet to leave the area and retreat to places where they may be protected, but where there is no fish. not to mention the hundreds of people still being held hostage on different ships. i ask you to implement the resolution this parliament adopted in december so that this operation will give protection to fishing vessels and extend that protection, and to reconsider the strategies and rethink the techniques and forms of this operation's presence in the indian ocean as a matter of urgency.
we have substantiated this point. the debate is closed. six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place today.
mr president, as a member of the committee on budgetary control, i wanted to say that i voted in favour of the eu 2020 strategy because i think it was important for parliament to give its opinion, but i have a reservation that i would like to explain to this house and that is that paragraph 18, as it is worded, raises doubts about something that is false, that is to say, that is not true. it is said that the court of auditors has criticised the commission and the member states for something which is, in principle, the opposite: because it has not criticised the management of 80% of the union budget, but precisely this year, for the first time in 11 years, the court of auditors congratulated us and gave us a positive sdr for the 33 and a half per cent of the budget managed by the member states, which is agricultural expenditure, because the control system has been improved and is now in better condition. i therefore believe that the wording of paragraph 18 gives rise to misunderstandings among the public, as if 80% of the budget were being mismanaged and we were being criticised for it. i wanted to make this clear to your honourable members and to the citizens of europe.
in writing. − i voted ‘no’ to motion for a resolution rc7-0151/2010 submitted today for voting in parliament for the same reason that we greens did not vote for the barroso ii commission: because of a lack of ambition. on this occasion is the turn of parliament’s largest political groups to disappoint by adopting a resolution that is pure posture – it does not contain a single economic, social or environmental proposal. i believe that europeans expect more from this parliament. the eu parliament was sidelined during the design of eu 2020 strategy. now that parliament belatedly has a chance to react, its biggest political groups conspire to deliver an empty resolution. this is a missed opportunity to get the european parliament into the heart of the debate on substance and onto centre stage as an institution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of motion for a resolution rc7-0136/2010 on the goldstone recommendations mainly because it insists on asking for a strong eu position on the follow-up to the goldstone report and that implementation of its recommendations and accountability for all violations of the international law should be publically demanded, it asks all parties to conduct investigations that meet with international standards within five months, and it demands active monitoring of the implementation of the report by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission and the eu member states. furthermore, it adds new points to what parliament has already said in the past, such as asking the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission to assess the results of the investigations by all parties and report back to parliament, recalls that the responsibility and credibility of the eu and its member states require full monitoring of the investigations and shows concern about pressure put on ngos involved in the drawing up of the goldstone report and in the follow-up investigations, including reference to the restrictive measures imposed on their activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which was, in fact, a text agreed among all the major groups, including ours. the resolution was unanimously adopted.
in writing. − i voted in favour, today, of motion for resolution b7-0133/2010 on taxation of financial transactions, and am delighted that, for the first time, parliament has demanded an assessment of the feasibility and impact of introducing a financial transaction tax at eu level. this is considerable progress. pressure must now be exerted on the commission to propose concrete steps. european citizens expect the costs for the financial crisis to be borne by those on the financial markets who caused it. we cannot therefore be content with a minimalist solution in line with the us proposal, which would generate a few billion euro – a relatively small revenue considering the huge costs. poverty reduction, the fight against climate change and tackling the financial crisis require additional revenue of several hundred billion euro. a cleverly designed financial transaction tax would provide such a revenue, while simultaneously curbing speculation on financial markets.
in writing. − i supported resolution rc7-0154/2010 on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, and i am glad that a large majority of parliament did so. acta risks becoming known as the ‘absence of commission transparency agreement’. in its negotiations on acta, the commission should be upholding the principles of transparency, human rights and the eu parliament’s legal right to information. instead, the commission is failing this litmus test of its compliance in informing parliament under the terms of the lisbon treaty. the eu cannot continue to negotiate on acta if the people are not allowed to take part in the process. it is also a totally absurd and unacceptable situation if meps, behind closed doors, have to ask the commission about the content of the agreements we are supposed to vote on. further more, the eu parliament has shown that it does not accept secrecy and that it cherishes an open internet for all. meps have also shown that the parliament will not accept to be treated like a doormat. the commission has been strongly urged to keep us fully and immediately informed on the acta negotiations.
in writing. − in the end i voted in favour of the common resolution on generalised tariff preferences (gps) (rc7-0181/2010) although i am very sorry and upset fact the colombian embassy has been very successful in convincing some of our colleagues to keep out almost all references to the need to investigate the human rights violations in colombia and decide on the basis of the findings in order to decide whether to withdraw the tariff preferences for colombian goods.
in writing. - i voted against the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and the fundamental choices of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) in 2008, because i believe that the cfsp should not be aimed at defending the territory of the eu but at defining its foreign policy. i do not agree with the link between the eu and nato established by the treaty of lisbon, but i am in favour of demilitarisation and a point zero for armaments. i deplore the logic of militarization of the eu, intensified by the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, and the changes it has introduced, such as the european external action service or the role of the high representative. we are currently witnessing the highest militarization in history. spending on armaments is even higher than cold war levels. the gue/ngl calls for the withdrawal of all us and other military bases from the territory of the eu member states and for military spending to be directed to civilian purposes in order to meet the millennium development goals.
in writing. - the report by mr albertini and mr danjean on the eu's foreign, security and defence policy, i want to make it clear that the votes of the spanish delegation of the s&d group confirm the non-recognition of kosovo as an independent state. kosovo has not been recognised by spain, nor by four other eu member states, nor by a hundred other member states of the united nations. for all these reasons, both in the committee on foreign affairs and today in the house, we have supported amendments which are consistent with our view. the spanish socialist delegation is nevertheless positive about the process of stabilisation and enlargement affecting the western balkan countries, turkey and iceland.
in writing. − i have finally voted in favour of the report a7-0023/2010, known also as the annual report on the cfsp, mainly because two of our five amendments were adopted (the one on the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue and the one about the expectation that a strategic relationship between the eu and china will be developed). finally, there were no major changes to the original draft and no surprises on the amendments adopted. the report was in the end voted with 592 votes in favour (among which ours) and 66 against.
in writing. - i voted against the danjean report because it advocates a future esdp geared to promoting the militarisation of the eu and its interventionist character. it does not propose any approach or a peaceful, civil solution to conflicts, but instead focuses on defence and the militarisation of the eu. i am also opposed to this text because it refers to the treaty of lisbon and its implementation, which favours a move towards the centralisation of powers, without any parliamentary control mechanism, which makes the eu a military actor on the international scene. instead of the permanent structured cooperation between the eu and nato, which is what the report advocates, i am in favour of all activities being carried out strictly within the framework of the un charter and international law, with a strict separation between the two institutions.
in writing. − i have finally abstained in the final vote on the annual report on the implementation of the european security strategy (a7-0026/2010). this was the most complex and delicate report for us but we managed well. two and a half of our 11 amendments were passed (with a very important one calling on the hr/vp to overcome the imbalance between civilian and military planning capabilities). no other major changes were voted. the report was in the end approved with 480 votes in favour and 111 against. i, as i said, abstained, together with the rest of my group.
in writing. − i have finally given my ‘yes’ to this complex resolution (rc7-0137/2010) on the non-proliferation treaty. basically, i am glad that the original text presented by the ppe, socialists, alde and the verts/ale was confirmed and that one of our four amendments was adopted (331 in favour, 311 against), especially, surprisingly, as this was the one calling on all parties to review their military doctrine with a view to renouncing the first-strike option. the efforts of the ppe to delete the paragraph concerning nuclear free zones, including in the middle east, was defeated.
acting president of the council. - madam president, the death of orlando zapata was a profoundly negative event, an event which should never have occurred and which we do not want to see happen again in cuba or anywhere else. the european union and its institutions must be committed to denouncing the facts which constitute violations of human rights and to working to ensure that such a thing never happens again. that must be the commitment of the european union. the defence of human rights is an essential identity for the european union, because we believe in the values of freedom, tolerance and pluralism, and this is therefore our personality, our most genuine personality. wherever these universal rights are violated, the european union denounces it, it says it out loud, and we have done the same with cuba. we have done so when we have expressed our pessimism or our concern about the lack of progress in the field of human rights in cuba, and we have said so when we have demanded the release of prisoners of conscience in cuban prisons. at the moment there are about 200 prisoners of conscience, some of them in very complicated health situations, and one of them is guillermo fariñas, in very serious condition, and on hunger strike as well. we have also done so when we have pointed out the need to protect human rights defenders in cuba, and we have done so when we have said that the death of orlando zapata is something that calls into question the responsibility of a government that has prisoners under its jurisdiction. but the european union's policy towards cuba goes further. the european union's policy towards cuba is structured around certain elements, and i would like to highlight some of them. first, political dialogue, a political dialogue with the cuban institutions, with the authorities and with civil society as a whole, which naturally also extends to human rights. secondly, development cooperation with cuba, which is nothing less than solidarity with the cuban people, and also fostering progress in the culture and democratic practice of cuba. these are fundamental elements of a policy, a policy which has essentially one target: the cuban people, that is, their welfare, their progress, their living conditions and respect for their human rights.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission deeply regrets the death of mr orlando zapata and its circumstances. i would also like to express my deep concern for the other political prisoners in cuba. all of us in this room share the same sense of anger and frustration at the death of mr zapata, and we should do our very best to make sure that such events do not happen again in cuba, or in any other country. the european union is rooted in the values of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, which we strive to protect and promote after having suffered, until very recently, violations of basic human rights on our own continent. human rights are universal and have no borders. this principle is an integral part of our dialogue with all partners in europe and outside. constructive engagement, not a policy of coercion and sanctions, remains the basis of our policy towards cuba, as underlined in the common position adopted in 1996. this is the rationale that led the council to decide in june 2008 to lift the 2003 diplomatic measures, as a means to facilitate the political dialogue process and enable full use of the instruments under the 1996 common position. this is also the rationale that has led numerous member states to resume their development cooperation with cuba over the past few months, representing a diverse range of the political parties represented in the european parliament and reflecting, therefore, the shared view of the important role to be played by development cooperation in cuba. at such times in cuba, inaction would be the worst possible option for the credibility of the european union as a global actor. what is at stake is not only that credibility, but also our capacity to be present in cuba. thus, i firmly believe that the way forward is to pursue and deepen the ongoing political dialogue and continue cooperation with cuba as a tool for improving the lives of the cuban people. cooperation with cuba has never been suspended by the european union, because development is not about supporting the government – it is about supporting the people. our view has always been that development cooperation constitutes an important element of our relations with cuba. the ongoing projects in cuba benefit the population directly by addressing their basic needs, through support for rehabilitation and reconstruction after the hurricanes, food security and adaptation to climate change. projects are also being run in support of non-state actor activities. i would like to be very clear that there is no ec funding channelled through the government or public entities. the money is channelled via united nations agencies and european ngos, who welcome the presence of the commission and the european union in cuba. it is important that the european union continues to address the basic needs of the cuban population while intervening in strategic sectors through the available thematic or geographical instruments. the task that the eu needs to face in a determined way is to find the right balance between showing openness to dialogue, supporting the cuban population through development cooperation and reaffirming our principles.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, when my group asked for this matter to be included on the agenda, it was not to highlight the sometimes irreparable errors of policies that are accommodating to the enemies of freedom. nor did he do so to gain political profit from that denunciation. it did so so that this parliament, which is the institution where the democratic pulse of the european union beats, could raise its voice to condemn the death of an innocent man and, above all, to express its solidarity with those who in cuba are fighting, living and dying, like orlando zapata, for their freedom and for their dignity. as the european commission has pointed out, the council's common position is in force, and it is an honourable position because it calls for the immediate and unconditional release of political prisoners, and it is consistent because it calls for respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, with the aim of anchoring cuba to our system of values and not to other alien systems such as those of china or vietnam. in this chamber, madam president, the words of a brave man, oswaldo payá, who won the sakharov prize in 2002, still ring out: the first victory to be proclaimed is that there is no hatred in your heart. he told his oppressors that they were his brothers, that he didn't hate them, but that they wouldn't be afraid to stand up to him. andrei sakharov, who left a legacy of dignity and work for the peaceful coexistence of peoples, said that often the voices that count most are the voices that are not heard. we have not been able to hear the voices of the 'ladies in white' in this chamber, who have also been awarded the sakharov prize by this parliament. unfortunately, we will no longer be able to hear the voice of orlando zapata, but soon we will be able to hear the voices of many other cubans. in the meantime, madam president, this parliament, with the legitimacy it has to represent 500 million citizens of the 27 member states of the union, must make a loud and clear echo of that already unstoppable cry for freedom which comes to us from the beloved island of cuba. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, let us never again allow our silence to become complicity with the freedom-killing. we must never again allow a person who fought for his rights and those of all to die in prison in cuba or anywhere else, without our strong and firm voice being raised demanding his salvation. mr orlando zapata tamayo, a 42-year-old black mason who only wanted improved prison conditions, died after 86 days of hunger strike and seven years in prison for demanding respect for human rights. in those seven years he was mistreated, humiliated, mocked by his prison guards, in the midst of a thick silence of the international community. other prisoners and human rights activists in cuba are now on hunger strike, such as psychologist and journalist guillermo fariñas. ladies and gentlemen, the resolution which we are presenting and debating today and which we shall be voting on tomorrow, and which i represent on behalf of the socialist group, calls for the release of all prisoners of conscience in cuba. it once again calls for a democratic transition and strict respect for fundamental human rights. let us not go into the issue which divides us: whether or not to maintain the common position. let us now focus on the issue of saving lives and the issue of human rights. and we open a period of serene reflection in which we seek places of encounter on the issues of future policy with cuba. but this text also has an important added value. the fact that it is being put forward by six political groups expresses a new time of broad consensus in this house on the subject of human rights. let it never again be said that the european democratic right is bowing to the orders of yankee imperialism, but let it never again be said that the social democrats are complacent or complicit with the communist dictatorships. simply because both these claims are false, and the victims of the freedom murders, wherever they may be, should know that they will find us united in the unconditional defense of their cause. madam president, i would like to thank mr salafranca, who negotiated this text on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mrs weber of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, mr romeva of the group of the greens/european free alliance, mr kožušník of the european conservatives and reformists and other colleagues who have taken part in this difficult, complicated but hopefully successful effort. finally, i would also like to thank the president of the spanish government and president-in-office of the european union, mr rodríguez zapatero, for his encouragement and support in bringing forward this resolution which we are debating today.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i too would like to add my voice and that of my group to the condolences on the death of orlando zapata. regardless of what opinion one may have of cuba, it is clear that this is a regrettable fact in itself and deserves condemnation and, surely, more than reflection and remembrance. it is worth formulating coherently the request we make in this resolution, which is the release of persons detained for political reasons or motivations, in cuba or anywhere in the world. i think it is consistent that we do so, i think it is necessary that we do so, and i think it is important that we do so too, regardless of the motivations behind it. this is part of the deal. it is also necessary to call for the immediate release of these people, in the case of cuba, and above all to recall the delicate situation - as has been said - of some of the people who, following the example of orlando zapata, began a hunger strike, especially the case of guillermo fariñas. however, i would also like to warn against the risk of using and politically exploiting this case for other issues which, as mr yáñez has also said, can be dangerous. i think it is important to remember that there are many processes under way which are useful, which are working, and that, in no case should we fall into the temptation - something which some seem to want - of going back to past histories, to past times, to recover this failed policy of blockade and embargo, because we already know what the consequences of this are. so if we agree that we do not want a repeat of orlando zapata's situation, i think it is important to know how we can work together to prevent it from happening again, starting with facilitating the process of democratization and normalisation on the island.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, my group deeply regrets the death of the prisoner orlando zapata. as regards this prisoner, as with any prisoner, the responsibility for his safety and life lies with the state. in this case it is cuba and therefore we deeply regret his death. now, we do not share the instrumentalization that this house of human rights is making. today we debate and tomorrow we vote. we didn't do that with the military coup in honduras. this house, perhaps the only house in the world, did not condemn, did not vote against the military coup in honduras with its murders and torture. we therefore do not share the philosophy that it depends on where, it depends on what human right, it depends on what situation one must decide or not. a week ago, the largest mass grave in latin america was discovered in colombia. the authorities themselves speak of 2,500 bodies, they may go as high as 50,000. is there a conviction? you argue, you vote and you condemn? what about the civilian casualties in afghanistan? what about the persecution in western sahara? i'm not going! we don't fall for that hypocrisy. i think the fundamental thing is to establish a two-to-two relationship with the republic of cuba to deal with all the agendas: the political ones, the human rights ones, the prison situation, but in a two-to-two relationship, because the european union maintains a common position with the republic of cuba, which is the exception. there is no other country in the world with which i have a common position. nor with the people's republic of china, which has been mentioned, nor with vietnam. why would you do that? why cuba and not the people's republic of china? i would ask the council, the president of the council, to put a clear question: will the common position, which in my view is one of the most obvious obstacles to progress in a frank dialogue between the european union and the republic of cuba, with common agendas, shared and of mutual interest, be brought to an end?
madam president, defending human rights today is condemning the avoidable, cruel and unjust death of orlando zapata and calling for the release of those still in prison. i hope this will make the cuban authorities reflect, whose regime must move forward so that the citizens can enjoy a true democracy. in cuba there is a dictatorship because there are prisoners of conscience, because there is fear of debate, of the free exchange of ideas and projects, because there is fear of freedom. and ideas do not commit crimes; they can provoke, surprise, frighten, but they always need arguments and debate. never the jail. societies think and feel. the prisoners too. and it's impossible to forbid thinking and feeling. that is why the ideas and feelings that you want to repress, like water, end up seeping into the consciousness of the whole society, including the cuban, and that should be known better than anyone the protagonists of the revolution that ended the regime of fulgencio batista. i hope that this resolution will help you to make the transition you need! but human rights are non-negotiable. and this parliament gains credibility when it reacts with the same energy to all the violations of human rights in all the countries: in afghanistan, in palestine, in euskadi - my little country - in honduras or in colombia. and that must be our commitment. it's definitely the same one.
madam president, we spanish socialists deeply regret the death of orlando zapata and the situation of prisoners of conscience, whose release we call for with all our strength. orlando zapata's death is unfortunate, but it can also be a trigger for us to stop talking about human rights in cuba and start working for human rights with the cuban authorities, in favor of human rights in cuba. for this we must start thinking about changing the common position which prevents us from having any dialogue with the cuban authorities, who are the ones who have the capacity to change the human rights situation on the island. the common position - which is not so common, by the way, because a good number of european union countries have active bilateral relations with cuba - is an obstacle to any possibility of political dialogue, and it is an obstacle to the european union being able to develop the principles that inspire its external action, including the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world. the common position is an outdated and outdated instrument adopted by 15 member states of the european union in the last century. we are now 27 member states. the world situation has changed. the united states is in dialogue with cuba on such sensitive issues as immigration. the oas has admitted cuba to its membership on the basis of dialogue, in accordance with the principles which inspire this organization. in these new times for the european union, we need a bilaterally negotiated instrument that will enable us to be effective in what the european union is all about, which is the promotion of democracy and human rights. the blockade of dialogue with cuba is an extravagance in the external relations of the european union, which has negotiated and developed agreements with countries which do not meet the minimum standards in the field of civil and political rights and certainly not in the field of social rights, as cuba does. only dialogue, cooperation mechanisms and commitment through an international treaty will allow the european union to claim something from cuba, and those who deny dialogue are obstructing the search for a dignified outcome for those they claim to defend. the spanish government, on the other hand, can serve as an example. through constructive and demanding dialogue, it has secured the release of a considerable number of prisoners of conscience as a result of the effectiveness of its foreign policy. as don quixote said, "he who is punished by deeds should not be punished by words". so let's stop talking and let's start working for human rights in cuba, in cooperation with the cuban authorities, which is what prisoners of conscience need, instead of complaints from here.
madam president, colleagues, in the raids of the cuban black spring of 2003, seventy-five dissidents were imprisoned, accused of being spies for the united states. orlando zapata was arrested at that very moment for contempt, public disorder and disobedience. the women of these seventy-five dissidents formed the group of the 'ladies in white' who, in 2005, won the sakharov prize for freedom of conscience of the european parliament. i remember, by the way, that the castro regime did not grant visas to the 'ladies in white' to come here to this house to collect their prize. the cuban commission for human rights recognises that there are about 200 political prisoners in cuba, 22 of whom are journalists. cuba is the third country in the world in the sad world ranking of imprisoned journalists, after iran with fifty-two, and china with twenty-four. orlando zapata, 42, was declared a prisoner of conscience by amnesty international. he began a hunger strike on 3 december 2009 over repeated beatings and other abuse, and died on 23 february, eighty-five days after beginning his hunger strike. this parliament should express its solidarity with the zapata family and friends and declare its deep concern about the state of human rights in cuba. this house should send a clear message to the castro regime, especially in the context of the spanish presidency. a spanish presidency, by the way, which should be much more active in defending fundamental rights in cuba. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to call for the immediate release of all political prisoners in cuba.
mr president, democracy and the defence of human rights occupy a prominent place among the principles and objectives of the union's external action. i refer to article 21 of the treaty on european union. this article also applies to relations with cuba and the dear cuban people. unfortunately, over the last five years the council's action seems to have been essentially governed by the desire to correct the line adopted in previous years, especially in 2003 on the occasion of a very harsh wave of repression in cuba. in 2005, the council suspended the 2003 measures. there were subsequent visits to the island by foreign ministers and commissioners. the 2003 measures were repealed in june 2008. a global political dialogue was established - as mr lópez garrido reminded us - and regular high-level meetings were held. even a head of state from a member country recently travelled to havana. unfortunately, the european politicians who went to the island did not have a moment to meet with the representatives of the dissent, who feel thus marginalized. all this time the repression in cuba has continued. there have been no changes or reforms. and yet the political dialogue has been maintained. now, we are all shaken by the cruel death of political prisoner orlando zapata. ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, some governments, such as the spanish government, have repeatedly said that they want to abolish the common position. a common position which says something very logical: support for the democratic transition; essentially the same as the principles and objectives of article 21 of the treaty. i shall end with two considerations. the common position has not prevented dialogue. it's obvious. and it has been recently reconfirmed by the 27 ministers in june 2009. secondly, the priority cannot be to change the common position - that is all that was lacking. the priority today is to call for the immediate, total and unconditional release of all political prisoners. cuba and latin america, for me, are the west, and the hallmarks of the west are the dignity of the human being and respect for his fundamental rights. a final consideration: i would remind the council that, in its own conclusions of june 2009, the future of the political dialogue with the cuban authorities is made dependent on progress, in particular on human rights. can anyone claim that these advances are taking place today? can anyone really say that?
history will absolve me! was the famous plea of a young lawyer that made his town shake. history does indeed absolve him of his rebellion against tyranny and then against the american blockade. but with the same emphatic condemnation, this parliament, which represents the largest area of freedom and democracy in the world, condemns the dictatorship suffered by the people of cuba, the violation of human rights on the island, the impiety towards political prisoners, the contempt for its exiled nationals. the judgment of history is clear. with this resolution, members of parliament of all ideologies, we stand with the cuban people in struggle. the brutal repression of the people must be prevented by all possible means, including by overcoming the paralysing so-called common position. homage to the poet raúl rivero in the last verses written in his havana: "do not impose taxes on affection, emptiness, suffocation, bitterness. the ruins of the homeland are safe. quiet comrades. we're leaving now.
madam president, i say to the mother of orlando zapata and to his fellow sufferers in the struggle for freedom in cuba: you are not alone. today, this parliament, through this resolution - for which i, as the secretary general of my party, thank its authors, and especially all the parties that have signed it - raises its voice in unity against the isolated and decrepit dictatorship. today, here, we are signing the beginning of the international death sentence of this regime. i am sure, based on most of the interventions heard, that we are all united in firm and clear condemnation of your son's death. but many go beyond this statement: rest assured that we will remain vigilant to obtain the release of all, of all political prisoners on the island, unconditionally. we will remain vigilant to the situation of constant human rights violations on the island. and of course, from the european people's party - and i am sure from many other places, as i have heard - we will fight to maintain the common position of the european union. we will not give confused signals, but a clear guide to achieve our dream of seeing a democratic cuba. orlando's supreme sacrifice has found its echo in the consciences of the good of the whole world. let the silent sacrifice of thousands of cubans be celebrated in the near future in a free cuba.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by stressing the importance of the strategic energy plan and its necessary contribution to accelerating the development and application of clean, sustainable and efficient energy technologies. without this plan, it will not be possible to achieve the 2020 targets we have set ourselves, nor to achieve the transition to a low-carbon economy of the desired size by 2050. i am glad to see that there is a broad agreement between parliament and the council on the importance and necessity of both the objectives of the plan and the means to be made available to it. the energy council intends to adopt conclusions on the eete plan at its meeting on friday 12 march. these will be an important reference for the spring european council on 25 march, as the issue of climate change is on its agenda. the proposal for conclusions to be discussed in the council incorporates the subject of financing, albeit in a duly cautious manner. we do not want to prejudge the negotiations that will have to be carried out on this subject in the context of the next financial framework. the main points in this proposal for a conclusion are as follows. firstly, the time has come to move from the technological roadmaps to the operational launching of european industrial initiatives. we must do it step by step, but as quickly as possible. secondly, the way forward for future energy research cooperation in europe must be through the effective use of public resources and the creation of flexible public-private partnerships with industry. the commission is therefore invited to establish a platform that includes all the financial organisations concerned, so that they can exchange information and best practice, while, where appropriate, coordinating their actions as necessary. third, given the scale of public-private financing needed in the medium term to support, in particular, large demonstration projects, an increase in the share of public investment at eu level may be necessary. this is a matter which must be taken into account both in the review of the budget and in the negotiations for the next financial framework. fourthly, the authorities in the member states should be encouraged and supported to provide appropriate incentives and give consistent signals to put this policy into action. if necessary, they should also significantly increase public funding for the development of low-carbon technologies. fifthly, the commission and the european investment bank are already working together to improve the coordination and continuity of the financing of demonstration projects in the energy sector with high technological risk. they are also working to mobilise and make available other sources of funding, both public and private. finally, the commission and the european investment bank are trying to assess the optimal financing packages for large demonstration projects, and the commission is therefore also invited to examine new ways of combining resources from different sources and to develop an ad hoc instrument for financing the commercial launch of low-carbon technologies. ladies and gentlemen, all of this sends a clear message about future investment in the development of low-carbon technologies. despite the heavy budgetary constraints at present, the message that the council will send at its meeting this friday will be a message of commitment, a positive message in terms both of the importance of this issue at european level and of the enormous value of each member state investing in the development of low-carbon technologies.
member of the commission. − madam president, although i am replacing my colleague günther oettinger today, it is a real pleasure to discuss with you the future of low-carbon technologies. i personally was closely involved in the development of the european strategic energy technology plan (set plan) in the last commission and i believe strongly that the development of these technologies is one of the cornerstones of the energy policy we have to develop jointly in the years to come. parliament’s report on the set plan of june 2008 was very clear in proposing an appropriate level of ambition. we should not now lower this ambition. today you have asked three clear questions and i will respond to them in turn. first, regarding our priorities for 2010 to 2020 and the launch of the european industrial initiatives, those six initiatives really match our priorities – wind, solar bio-energy, sustainable fission, smart grids, and carbon capture and storage are priorities that were strongly endorsed by parliament and the council. at your request, we have also prioritised energy efficiency by developing a new dedicated initiative – ‘smart cities’ – to unlock the market potential of energy efficient technologies in cities and regions. to prioritise activities within this initiative, the commission has developed, together with the stakeholders, technology road maps for the period 2010-2020. these road maps establish concrete objectives as well as the activities needed to achieve them. the initiatives are mature for launching this year, 2010. smart cities are planned for the following year. your second question concerns the need for predictable, stable and adequate budgets for the set plan in the current financing period and post-2014. our estimate of the public and private investment needs for the development of low-carbon technologies in the set plan is eur 8 billion per year. today about eur 3 billion are being invested annually in the european union, which means that a further eur 50 billion is needed for the period 2010-2020. bridging this gap should be one of the key institutional discussions over the coming years. effort must be focused where intervention is most efficient, avoiding duplications and fostering the greatest potential impact in the market. it is clear that eu level investments – coming either from the seventh framework programme or the european energy programme for recovery – will not be enough. nor will the potential funds from the 300 million emissions trading allowances set aside for the demonstration of carbon capture and storage and innovative renewable technologies. at current prices this is approximately eur 4 billion. major efforts are therefore required, both by the private and public sector; the public sector includes both the european union and of course also the member states. to be blunt, the bulk of the money will have to come from where the bulk of the money is. thirdly, you asked if the commission intends to finance other technology avenues and propose additional industrial initiatives. other technologies that deserve european-level intervention will certainly emerge over time, so the set plan must remain flexible, as we have already shown with the new initiative on energy efficiency – smart cities – which we expect to launch, as i said, in 2011. we will closely monitor the most promising technologies through the set plan information system. setis, as this is called, is already working on storage and ocean technologies to assess their potential and identify the best opportunities for european intervention. we have also encouraged the establishment of a new technology platform on renewables, heating and cooling, that should help the sectors involved better to define their technology transfer. i am very pleased to see this file getting the support it deserves. it is a key file for achieving our energy policy goals, a key file for europe and for our future.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. several studies estimate that promoting the 20% renewable energy penetration target will result in 2.8 million european workers being employed in this sector by 2020. in addition, it is estimated that two thirds of the jobs created will come from small and medium-sized enterprises. and the key, ladies and gentlemen, is in the development of green technologies. in order to achieve this, my group advocates three main objectives. firstly, a real commitment to provide new funds for the eete plan. it's not enough to regroup and rename the support programs we already have. we agree that our objective must be translated into a clear increase in the appropriations for research into renewable energy and energy efficiency. we need to do so now, at the next review of the financial perspectives and, of course, when negotiating the new ones. secondly, if we are to create the jobs our economy needs to get out of the crisis, it is vital that we push forward the demonstration phase of innovative technologies and we must facilitate their market uptake. and finally, we cannot harness the potential for green job creation if we do not have a highly skilled workforce. we need to invest in education and information to strengthen the links between the world of work and the world of education, and we need to foster skills of excellence in r & d and innovation to be in a position to fill the potential gaps in the renewable energy labour market.
member of the commission. − madam president, only two weeks after the dreadful disaster on madeira, the commission was again shocked and saddened by the death and devastation caused by storm xynthia in france and other european countries. i wish to express my personal sympathy to all those that are suffering as a consequence of the disaster. the commission’s condolences go in particular to the families and friends of those that have lost their lives. through the monitoring and information centre for civil protection, the commission has been monitoring the events caused by storm xynthia closely and has offered to set the mechanism for eu assistance in action. fortunately, the french rescue services were able to respond to the disaster with their own means and did not request the activation of the mechanism. together with the relevant authorities in the member states, the commission is now exploring all the possibilities and instruments that could be available at eu level to assist financially in overcoming the disaster and to help return to normal living conditions as soon as possible. two days ago commission president barroso met french president sarkozy to discuss the situation. yesterday he also met with a number of members of this house from different countries. one week ago my colleague, mr hahn, commissioner responsible for regional policy and the solidarity fund, visited the most hard-hit regions in france – la rochelle and l’aiguillon-sur-mer – and met with national and regional authorities. on madeira, where disaster struck two weeks earlier, the authorities and rescue services have been able to make enormous progress in combating the effects of the flooding disaster. commissioner hahn visited madeira during the past weekend to get a first-hand impression and to discuss with the local authorities the way forward. the european union solidarity fund was set up in 2002 specifically as the instrument at eu level to financially assist eu member states affected by major natural disasters, if certain conditions are met. france has already declared its intention to apply for assistance from the solidarity fund. i should point out that the regulation governing the solidarity fund normally allows its mobilisation only for what are known as ‘major disasters’, where the damage at national level exceeds the threshold of 0.6% of gross national income, or eur 3 billion at 2002 prices. for france this currently means the damage would have to exceed approximately eur 3.4747 billion at current prices. however, in exceptional circumstances and if specific criteria are met, the fund may also be used for smaller ‘extraordinary regional disasters’, in particular where they concern outermost regions like madeira. the french authorities are currently carrying out an assessment of the damage and of its repercussions for the economy and the living conditions of the population. these are the essential elements for the application, which has to reach the commission within 10 weeks of the disaster. that means before 9 may. after it is received it will be examined by the commission as quickly as possible. the commission services, in particular dg regional policy, are granting all possible assistance and guidance in preparing the application. contacts at expert level are well established with the french authorities, thus allowing effective progress. please be aware, however, that aid from the solidarity fund cannot be paid out immediately. the solidarity fund should not be misunderstood as an emergency instrument. it is a financial instrument to help bear the financial burden of emergency operations. as such, a possible grant could be used retroactively for emergency operations from day one of the disaster. the funding for the solidarity fund is raised through an extra effort of the member states outside the normal european union budget. it has to be approved by parliament and the council through an amending budget procedure. as you know, the whole procedure – from the moment the application is made to paying out the grant – inevitably takes several months. the commission is, however, making every effort to keep this time span as short as possible. as regards the structural funds, in particular the erdf, this can of course not be used for immediate emergency operations. france and the commission have, however, started discussing the options and possible necessary programme modifications which might be instrumental for longer-term reconstruction and for investment in businesses affected by the flood. one last point, which members of this house already raised during the debate on madeira two weeks ago. the commission will use the current political momentum to attempt to unblock the proposal for an amended solidarity fund regulation at the council. parliament widely supported this proposal, and i feel this is the right moment to take common action vis-à-vis the council again.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, on the night of 27 to 28 february, the storm xynthia particularly struck the coasts of charente-maritime and the vendée, my region: 53 dead, a dozen or so missing, hundreds of people who are homeless. these are considerable losses, to which must be added serious problems in the infrastructure. i am thinking in particular of the dams, the railways, the sewage systems, the electricity networks, the telecommunications networks and the whole system of small and mediumsized enterprises, in particular the nautical sector, aquaculture, agriculture, with 45 000 hectares drowned by salt water, since this is indeed a flood from the sea. this is considerable damage by its magnitude. the damage has not been fully assessed over time, since some agricultural land is now unsuitable for farming for several years. i therefore call for the european union's solidarity here, with the european union's solidarity fund being made available under the best possible conditions, under the fastest possible conditions, because we cannot tell our fellow citizens that the funds will wait and that the problems cannot be solved here and now. we must all, after the arrival of the commissioner - whom i really thank for coming to see the scale of the disaster on the spot, and i know that he was also very affected by it - join our efforts to improve the use of this fund, so that things can go faster. we always complain that europe is too far away from our fellow citizens, let us show them here today that we can react quickly. i regret that the council is not here to help us with this amendment to the rules. in any case, you should know that we need it and that our fellow citizens expect it.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, i too wish to express my deepest condolences to my staff and to my group and my solidarity with the regions affected, deploring the serious economic consequences of these disasters and conveying in particular our condolences to the families of the victims. it is also important to stress the need for national, regional and local authorities to focus now on effective prevention policies and to pay more attention to appropriate land use practices and legislation. that is precisely why we have two amendments which we have tabled as a group, because we believe they are missing from the resolution by consensus. the first one says: 'whereas in france construction has been authorized in floodplains and natural wetlands; whereas building speculation has encouraged the construction of buildings in vulnerable areas.' this is a fundamental aspect for us to move forward. the second amendment requires that 'the co-financing by community funds for the implementation of such plans, in particular under the structural funds, the eafrd, the cohesion fund and the european solidarity fund, be subject to sustainability measures'. this is crucial for us to decide whether we will ultimately vote for or against the resolution presented.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with all the families of the victims of hurricane xynthia. last week i had the opportunity to visit madeira with a socialist delegation from the regional development committee. it was the first time that a european delegation had had the opportunity to be on the ground and to contact the authorities and civil society on the island. the storm that hit madeira killed more than 40 people and injured and displaced hundreds. the losses are estimated at €100 million, with 900 companies and over 3,500 workers directly affected. the priority now is to rebuild the infrastructure, to restore normalcy and above all to restore madeira's image abroad and confidence in its tourist services, in order to revive its economy and its development. several weather events, notably the storm xynthia, have also affected spain, mainly the regions of andalusia and the canary islands, as well as western france and other countries. these disasters, which are of such magnitude, have caused enormous economic damage and require an urgent, rapid and effective response from the european union. the necessary instruments must therefore be mobilised to deal with such disasters. in the face of extraordinary situations, commissioner, extraordinary measures.
mr president, my first words are of solidarity and sorrow for france and portugal: for la rochelle and also for madeira; and my second words are of solidarity for my country: for andalusia and the canary islands, which were hit by the enormous storm. but i must make a strong criticism of the solidarity fund. the solidarity fund is obsolete and has not taken account of the opinion of this parliament in 2006. it's no longer good by default or by excess. 0.6% of gdp and 3 000 million euro are figures which do not correspond to the needs, not of emergency but of reconstruction. we therefore ask the spanish presidency, in whom we have confidence, to give the necessary impetus to the reform of the solidarity fund.
member of the commission. − mr president, i come from a small village, with approximately 500 inhabitants, which was severely hit by floods just two years ago. it was actually a pure miracle – or, if you wish, lucky – that there were no human casualties. at that time we benefited greatly from the same solidarity fund that we are talking about. i fully understand the feelings of the people on the ground. they are also looking for solidarity from all around the european union – solidarity which is fast and efficient. that is why i think it is of the utmost importance that we focus on the solidarity fund regulation. as you know, the commission proposal for an amendment to the european union solidarity fund regulation dates back to 2005. this proposal concerns mostly the extension of the fund to disasters other than natural ones. however, it also includes elements that might have been relevant in the case of xynthia as well – a proposal to lower the thresholds and the possibility of paying advances of the expected aid. there have been signals from several member states lately – including from france – that they may reconsider their negative position. together with parliament, the commission intends taking a new initiative very shortly vis-à-vis the council and its spanish presidency, to unblock the dossier. i also agree with the remark that we should do our utmost to be better prepared. the frequency and intensity of disastrous events is clearly increasing, and this is worrying. so i think that being better prepared is of the utmost importance. in this context, the cohesion and structural funds should play their role also. there are also other possibilities which can be explored. i have already mentioned the structural and cohesion funds. also the rural development fund can be redirected but of course only at the request of the member state. i would like to thank you for your support and i would also like to thank you in the name of my colleague, johannes hahn, who has responsibility for this area.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we have to deal once again with this sad and traditional question. i would like to pay my respects and gratitude to all the professionals and volunteers who have helped in the search and reconstruction work in the affected areas, and a very special thought to the families of the victims. we must be able to help the victims and lay the foundations for the speedy recovery of the affected areas. we must continue to work intensively in the field of prevention. finally, and as a matter of priority, i would like to ask the spanish government to take advantage of the presidency of the union to push for the amendment of the current regulation on the solidarity fund, which has already been requested on several occasions by the european parliament, in order to achieve more flexible, rapid and effective access to it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all, on behalf of the delegation to the eu-chile joint parliamentary committee, i would like to express our solidarity with the people, parliament and government of chile in the face of the catastrophe caused by the earthquake on 27 february and the 'more than 200' aftershocks that have taken place until yesterday. at least 500 people, including two europeans, have died and two million chileans are affected by the earthquakes. the mapuche people, whose territories are located in three of the four southern regions of the country, have been most severely affected by the earthquake. i would also like to express our appreciation to all the people who have cooperated selflessly and to the professionals who attended to the victims. chilean society has been able to rise to the occasion in a very complicated situation. i would like to congratulate president bachelet on the immediate efforts made by her government to deal with the situation following a terrible earthquake which has destroyed homes and infrastructure. the rapid action of the government and the demonstration of seriousness and responsibility in identifying the specific needs for support have been joined by international solidarity, which is a sign of chile's excellent relations with its neighbours and strategic partners. and i want to congratulate the new government of sebastián piñera, which is taking office today, and encourage it in its reconstruction efforts, for which it will, i hope, have the full support of the european union. chile is not only a friendly country, a partner of the european union, but also a developed country and an oecd member, but the cost of reconstruction will be high: it is estimated that it will reach 20 million dollars, or 15% of chilean gdp. i therefore ask the european union to make available to the chilean authorities all the instruments at its disposal to help with reconstruction. the country will need international loans and the european investment bank, with which chile has just signed an agreement, should be involved in financing the reconstruction projects. the european union, under the spanish presidency, has set up a mechanism for coordinating humanitarian aid with the united nations and a post-earthquake unit, and the commissioner for international cooperation and humanitarian aid is due to visit in the coming days. we hope that the commission, while not forgetting other commitments as urgent as haiti, will also live up to the expectations that have been raised in chile.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, solidarity with a country after a disaster, as in chile, must be shown with more than words, as we have heard today from the head of the commission. chile has been, for us, a country of welcome and asylum. for example, there is a large basque colony that migrated to these lands in the 19th century for economic reasons and in the 20th century for political reasons. so words must be followed by action in this case, and i am therefore pleased with the swift action of the union, which immediately sent three million euros in aid to finance operations, and i also welcome the reaction of the high representative, mrs ashton, and i congratulate the commissioner, who reacted immediately and since yesterday has been encouraging and seeing what the needs are on the spot. i am also pleased with the operation of the new echo civil protection system, the assistance we have been able to provide from the european institutions and the collaboration established through the various agencies. europe has had and is having the opportunity to consolidate its role as a leading actor on the international scene on these occasions, working directly with those affected and cooperating in the coordination of aid organized by the states and also by the regions. i would like to highlight the performance of president bachelet, who has once again demonstrated the way to do politics, by squandering humanity, by collaborating with the new president, mr piñera, who i also want to congratulate, and who has been an example of how to banish politics in order to be up to the circumstances that the country needs. i would like to express, on behalf of my group, my solidarity and support for all the operations carried out, and my condolences to the families of the 528 people who died and so many others who are still missing, and to the people who have lost their homes. recently, on a pre-election observation mission of the delegation to the eu-chile joint parliamentary committee, we visited that territory. we had the opportunity to see what their projects were on the ground and we saw that it was a model country for economic and social development in the southern cone of america. we must make sure that this earthquake does not interrupt this path of economic development and also of social development.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to begin by endorsing the words of my colleagues muñiz and bilbao, because i believe that the first thing to be done is to show european solidarity with the chilean people and with the chilean institutions, which are well represented by the figures of president bachelet and president-elect piñera. secondly, i think it is also important to remember that, as is often the case in these cases, disasters which have a natural cause are indiscriminate and have no knowledge at any time of who is rich and who is poor: they punish equally. but it is also true that the poor are especially punished and it makes it much harder for these places to recover. i therefore believe that it is important not only to consider the necessary measures for recovery and reconstruction after disasters, but also to re-examine in many cases what some structural elements are, and that is where my question comes from. if i may, commissioner, i would like to look at a very specific issue in the context of the european union's country strategy paper with chile. of the 41 million euro planned for the period 2007-2013, how much will go to strengthening infrastructure in terms of roads, transport, etc.? how many of you are going to improve the construction of housing so that you can ensure that, in possible and undesirable future events, there is better preparation for a situation like this? and finally, how much of this money has been spent on these purposes?
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the people of chile, the same solidarity which we have also expressed with the people of haiti, turkey and peru, who have also suffered from recent natural disasters. solidarity is a hallmark of european identity and we must strengthen this solidarity for the future. fortunately, chile is a country that has a wide capacity to respond to these natural disasters, but this capacity is not available in large parts of the world. that is why i wanted to refer mainly to the european humanitarian aid strategy. our response can be even more effective, it can be even faster and more effective if we move in the right direction. which way? i believe that the first step is to increase coordination between the member states, their humanitarian agencies and the union institutions. secondly, towards greater coordination between the european union and other international humanitarian aid organisations, mainly the united nations. thirdly, towards greater coordination between military and humanitarian actors. we must preserve the safety of civilians and humanitarian actors, but also the independence, neutrality and impartiality of humanitarian aid and respect for international law. and within our own field, if we want humanitarian aid and crisis response to be a fundamental pillar of our foreign action, we need more human and economic resources. we can use the barnier report to create the european voluntary service and, with commissioner piebalgs here, to strengthen and better coordinate the link between humanitarian aid and reconstruction and development policies.
mr president, yesterday i spoke with senator jorge pizarro, who has been president of the senate of chile for a few hours. mr. pizarro will be wearing the presidential band today. i would like to express my hope that president piñera will undertake the task of reconstruction effectively and i would like to congratulate president bachelet on her handling of the crisis. i express my solidarity and fraternal affection to the people of chile for the terrible earthquakes and tsunamis which have struck concepción, bio bio, temuco and valparaíso. i know, mr president, that the heroic people of chile will be able to overcome this tragic situation, as they have done in other times. i repeat my affection, my love and my deep solidarity.
mr president, i would like to speak on behalf of mrs muñiz to explain why the spanish delegation of our group voted against amendment no 2 by the gue/ngl group, despite the fact that it called for the support of the spanish presidency in its efforts with cuba. first of all, i would like to remind you that we cannot support the amendments of a group which has departed from the resolution as a whole and that our commitment to all the groups which have supported the resolution did not allow us to support a partial amendment to that document. and secondly, that amendment no 2 by the gue/ngl group does not quite literally respond to the position of the spanish presidency, which seeks a consensus in the european union to renew the framework of relations with cuba, but not an absolute break with the common position, as that amendment quite literally says. that is the reason for our rejection of that amendment.
in writing. - i voted against resolution rc-b7-0169/2010 on cuba because i consider it to be an act of interference which contravenes international law. i have voted to denounce this exercise of political manipulation whose sole purpose is to condemn the cuban government. the same members who voted in favour of this text have repeatedly refused to table a resolution in this parliament condemning the coup d'état in honduras. this resolution calls on the eu to support unreservedly the change of political regime in the republic of cuba and also seeks to use the european mechanisms for aid to cooperation for this purpose, which is an unacceptable act of interference that contravenes international law. for more than 50 years the united states has maintained an economic, commercial and financial blockade of cuba in flagrant violation of international law, which has had severe consequences for the economy and the living conditions of the cuban people. despite this, the cuban government has continued to guarantee its citizens universal access to health and education.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on cuba (rc-b7-0169/2010) because, as i said yesterday during the debate, regardless of one's position on cuba, the death of orlando zapata is a regrettable event in itself. i also stress the need to demand the release of all political and prisoners of conscience in cuba and around the world, and i warn against the risk of resorting to measures which have proved to be a failure in moving towards the democratization and opening up of the island, such as the embargo and the blockade. there is no doubt that changes are urgently needed on the island, and the eu must accompany them so that the transition is made in favour of the cuban people.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution (b7-0148/2010) on investment in the development of low-carbon technologies, as did my group, the greens/efa, for a number of reasons, but in particular because the amendment which called for the deletion of a key paragraph for us, recital i, which called for the name of the sixth european industrial initiative to be changed from 'sustainable nuclear energy' to simply 'nuclear energy', was successful. we believe that the concept of 'sustainable nuclear energy' is meaningless, given that, at best, it is possible to reduce the environmental and health hazards and proliferation risks arising from the development and use of nuclear energy, but not to eliminate them.
in writing. − i abstained on the resolution on the major natural disaster in the autonomous region of madeira and the effects of storm xynthia in europe (rc-b7-0139/2010) because two of our key amendments were defeated. more specifically, the one which made reference to the fact that in france buildings were allowed on floodplains and natural wetlands and that housing speculation caused the construction of buildings in vulnerable areas, and the one stating that all community funds for the implementation of such plans, particularly from the structural funds, the eafrd, the cohesion fund and the european solidarity fund, be conditional on sustainability measures.
the author. - mr president, i want to start by saying that mexico is a great democracy, a democracy which has evolved progressively over the last twenty years. it is a friendly country of the european union with which we have a strategic partnership agreement, and i should also like to say that mexico is waging a very hard battle against organized crime in the drug trade. but today, here in the european parliament, we are talking about mexico in the human rights chapter because there has been and is a marked increase in violence, which is mainly suffered by the people of mexico, and because there are repeated and serious complaints about human rights violations. the resolution that the majority groups in this house are going to adopt today is based on respect, is based on consensus and, of course, recognizes this context that i have just described and encourages mexico to continue along the path of building a state of law and a perfect democracy. but it also asks you for four very important things: to ensure the exercise of the right to a free press, because there are attacks on journalists; to ensure the protection of human rights organisations, because there are attacks and threats against human rights organisations; to ensure the protection of women who suffer violence, because there are femicides; and to prevent impunity and the abuse of power by your security forces. that is what this parliament is asking of mexico in the spirit of friendship, which calls for a favourable relationship with mexico.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat drug trafficking. and in the face of this situation, the government of president calderón has taken a strong position for its eradication, so it has decided, temporarily, to make use of the armed forces, with important results in the number of detainees, in the destruction of drugs and in the confiscation of weapons. the army has accepted all the recommendations of the national human rights commission, including those concerning investigating complaints about its actions. the government also recognises that important changes need to be made in the area of security and justice and has launched an ambitious reform of the judiciary to make it transparent and punish those responsible for crimes, while respecting human rights. the european people's party wishes to show our solidarity with the mexican people in the fight against drug trafficking and we support president calderón in his will to combat organized crime. finally, i would like to express my satisfaction with this agreement which unites the main groups in the house.
mr president, we are all concerned about the increase in violence in ciudad juárez, but i am confident in the comprehensive measures that the mexican authorities have put in place to deal effectively with this very complex situation. i also support the vigorous fight that president calderón is waging against drug trafficking, this very serious global threat that affects us all. that is why we must all help the mexican institutions in this hard fight. ladies and gentlemen, over the last ten years mexico has experienced a very positive process of political and governmental modernization. these are reforms that president calderón is firmly pushing for. mexico has also adopted a policy of greater responsibility at the international level and is actively involved, for example, in the united nations and the g-20. i have always supported in this parliament, from my modest means, the establishment of a strategic partnership between the union and mexico, which we finally achieved in 2008. i hope that at the madrid summit in may an ambitious plan or programme of joint action will be adopted, because the european union and mexico have a lot to do together, both bilaterally and in multilateral fora, to jointly tackle challenges and threats, including drug trafficking and other forms of organised crime.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, you are more aware than anyone of how my party has wanted to help make the spanish presidency a success. we want to continue to do so, but for that you have to correct the shot and you have to take charge of the union at once. to lead the union is to find a solution for greece. everyone's told you that and i'm not gonna tell you again. the union must be led by adopting the directive on alternative investment fund managers as soon as possible and not delaying it, as the spanish presidency has done. to lead the union is to adopt the financial supervision package as soon as possible, not to hold on to a council agreement which is much more conservative than the commission's proposal and even more so than the de larosière report it is based on. this parliament is going to offer the spanish presidency a monitoring agreement which can be summed up in two words: more monitoring and more europe. i am sure that the spanish government, which has always preached these ideas, will support parliament and not the other positions coming from across the channel. to lead the union is to strengthen budgetary discipline. and to strengthen budgetary discipline is to come up with new ideas to strengthen the preventive aspect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the preventive arm should take account of the competitiveness of economies, because without wealth there is no way to balance public accounts, and the external accounts situation should be taken into account. the sanctioning aspect should also be strengthened so that the pact really has a binding aspect. leading the union is bringing some new ideas on the subject of governance, which the honourable member has just written about in a newspaper. the president of the government told us here that he wanted more governance when articles 121 and 136 of the lisbon treaty were already in force, which are now the ones to which the spanish presidency refers. what is that something else? tell us what it is and we'll help you. but to help you, we must know what you want, what you want, because in this parliament vague ideas, empty ideas, empty ideas have a very short life.
madam president, i think we are all aware that the european council next week will be followed with unusual attention by 500 million citizens. and the reason is that the european council will have the opportunity to send a message of commitment to the solution of the crisis which is desperately awaited by those who are suffering the most. and the way out of the crisis must be reflected, of course, in this commitment to strategy, which must be decisive in the change of growth model and its economic, social and environmental accents. from an economic point of view, in the bid for governance. from the social point of view, in the commitment to workers, to social protection - the model that has made us european - and, in particular, to equality, this is the emphasis i want to place on a document in which the commitment to equality is clearly improving. and from the environmental point of view, in the commitment to recover the spirit that made europe the leader in the commitment to environmental sustainability in the prevention of climate change, at the copenhagen conference, and, above all, in the recognition of this profoundly unsatisfactory taste in the mouth with which we have left the copenhagen conference. but most important of all, at the council meeting there must be a clear european commitment to accompany monetary union with the coordination of fiscal, budgetary and economic policies at the level of monetary union. the message of solidarity with greece is not a message for greece, it is a message for europe and europeans. it is not a question of rescuing greece, it is a question of showing signs of european vitality, of commitment to the deep reality, to the historically deep commitment that monetary unity has entailed. so, please understand that we are not talking about greece, we are talking about all of us. there have been delays in the implementation of the new institutions; there must be no delays in the implementation of the answers which europeans expect from the next council.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the development of the european citizens' initiative on the basis of article 11 (4) of the treaty on european union. i would like to welcome with great affection a group of journalists from my region, castilla-la mancha (spain), who have taken up the press gallery and are visiting the community institutions in these days.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i thank the european parliament for taking the initiative in holding this debate on what i consider to be one of the most important, most relevant from a democratic point of view, aspects of the development of the european union and of europeanism among the citizens of the european union. this is a very important issue, which opens up a new stage in the european union; as you know, of course, it is a question of the citizens' initiative. in other words, the possibility of at least one million european citizens from different countries being able to sign a legislative initiative. the commission is the community body with the power to initiate legislation. the citizens' initiative is a very clear priority of the council presidency. very clear. it is a priority because we understand that it is a priority for europe. when a country holds the presidency of the council of the european union, we understand that it does not have to develop its priorities, its objectives as a country, but that it must go further and be able to represent the objectives of europe. citizens' initiative, with its possibilities, with the rights it gives to citizens - to the almost 500 million european citizens - is an essential objective of europe and is therefore one of the priorities of the spanish presidency; not because it is a priority for spain, but because it is a priority for europe. citizens are hoping that the treaty of lisbon will be developed as quickly as possible after eight years of wasting time in institutional uncertainties. we must make up for lost time and give an answer to the citizens, who want to participate. that is to say, to strike a balance between the europe that has been built up during the 20th century from the top down - albeit a democratic europe - and a europe that is also built from the bottom up. we therefore believe that the citizens' initiative should be launched as soon as possible, because it will be a test of the political will of governments, the european parliament and the union's institutions to give citizens a voice and a capacity to participate in the life of the union. in addition, to counteract something that unfortunately happens in the european union, namely that the political debate is, for the most part, a national debate, an in-house debate. here in brussels, or in this parliament, a european debate is taking place, but in each of the countries of the union the national debate predominates, not the european debate. the citizens' initiative is a formidable mechanism for triggering a genuine european debate from civil society. the initiatives put forward by citizens from different countries will trigger a european debate in each of the countries, not just a purely national debate. that is why we have considered the citizens' initiative a priority. as soon as the commission presents its draft regulation, we shall have a text so that, together with the council and the european parliament, we can have in place before the end of this semester what the european citizens are undoubtedly waiting for. we must work on the various aspects of the present situation, some of them more technical, others more political, but we must make sure that this happens. that is why we, from the informal meeting of ministers for european affairs at la granja in san ildefonso, which will recall mr šefčovič and mrs malmström - still in office because the new commission had not yet taken office - to the first meeting we had with the commission in madrid when the new college of commissioners took office and now this afternoon here in the european parliament, have that interest in pushing this initiative forward. i would ask you - and this is the message i would like to convey to you, ladies and gentlemen - to show the utmost interest in this initiative. i know they do. and they want to see the greatest possible speed with which something is being done which i think will be able to reach general agreement on its various aspects with some ease, because of the discussions which have taken place in the council with the commission and the european parliament. for example, in the committee i was on, the committee on institutional affairs. i therefore believe that we can put this into practice, which is undoubtedly one of the most exciting elements for citizens in the new stage which is now opening up in the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would really like to thank parliament for putting this very important item on the agenda. i would like to personally thank my dear friend diego lópez garrido and the spanish presidency for keeping this on top of the spanish presidency’s agenda, because i believe that the instrument we are going to have will really change the way we do politics in the european union. until now, the european construct was based on representative democracy. i think this was very well reflected also in the lisbon treaty, where it is very clear that parliament’s powers are very much strengthened and when we are going to include the national parliaments more in the european legislative process. and we needed to complement it with greater inclusion of citizens in this process, through this instrument of participatory democracy. there was the debate, a while ago, on whether one cancels out the other and whether it is a zero-sum game. i really do not think so because i consider both elements of representative and participatory democracy as mutually reinforcing, and both help to create real european political and public space. i also believe that, thanks to this instrument, we will underline even more the importance of european citizenship for europeans. as diego has already said, i am also convinced that this would lead to stronger, better cross-border europe-wide debates in europe, more on european topics and not only on national topics that we see so often in the capitals of our member states. the commission was and is very grateful for the work the european parliament has already done on the european citizens’ initiative. for us, the resolution you adopted on 7 may last year was very important political guidance and a very important pointer as to how we should prepare this initiative. as you know, the commission, when preparing such important pieces of legislation like this one, wants to engage the european public in as wide a discussion as possible. therefore we organised a public debate on this issue, based on the green paper that we issued in december last year. i must say that we have been very positively surprised by the responses we have got. we got more than 300 responses coming from a range of contributors: individual citizens, organisations, public authorities and even some national parliaments. we evaluated the responses we got and completed the consultation process with a public debate in brussels, where more than 150 stakeholders were in attendance, including honourable representatives of parliament. if i had to sum up this debate, i would say that there were a lot of innovative, interesting and positive suggestions coming to the commission’s table. what were the major conclusions? that citizens are very much interested in having this initiative in place as soon as possible, that they would like to have it as user-friendly as possible, that they would like to have it simple, straightforward, understandable and, most of all, accessible. and, as you would agree, these are clear and very important parameters for having this legislation prepared in this way, because only these parameters would guarantee that citizens would use this instrument for better communication with the commission and with the european institutions. drawing on the results of the consultations and also on the proposals made by the european parliament, the commission is currently finalising its proposal. i hope that the college will adopt the proposals we are working on on 31 march. i can also tell you that this probably would not be possible without strong encouragement from the spanish presidency. it is very clear that such a top priority for the presidency must be respected, and i know there is strong commitment from spain to try to make progress on this initiative within the term of its presidency. so, i am very hopeful that, thanks to the constructive approach of the presidency, the council and parliament, we will have this new and very important instrument in place well before the first anniversary of the lisbon treaty coming into force.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, it was in this very room, almost seven years ago, at the end of the constitutional convention, that members of the european parliament and national members succeeded in making a proposal which was accepted by the presidium. i have the honor of taking it to the presidium and we've approved it. i would like to mention alain lamassoure and jürgen mayer, because they were the ones who formulated the proposal for a citizens' initiative, a popular initiative, which is now in the treaties. the european parliament has been asked to take part in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter. citizen participation, therefore, and to deal with issues at european level. mr šefčovič, who is preparing the proposal, has not told us what it will be. he's left us with a little honey on our lips. i will ask you, mr šefčovič, on behalf of my group, to put forward at least three ideas. first, make it clear and simple. i mean, let's not make this complicated. it has to be something that people can access, so they can participate without having to have studied a college degree. secondly, it should include cooperation between the european authorities and the national authorities, because in my view the national authorities have an important role to play in the way signatures are articulated. and thirdly, let us, from the european commission and from this parliament, do some teaching, explaining how this legislative initiative can be used to avoid frustration. and i'll give you an example that i've seen on the internet. the internet has already begun to collect signatures so that, through a popular initiative, the european parliament can have only one seat and that the seats of the european parliament can be changed. well, that is impossible, and it must be said from the outset; that requires a reform of the treaties and cannot be the subject of a popular initiative. so, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, and we in parliament too, we are doing a lot of teaching in an initiative which the epp shares and which it hopes will help to increase the feeling of belonging to the union and of citizens' participation in the affairs of the union.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i was very pleased to learn mr šefčovič welcome! that the commission is planning to adopt this draft regulation next week, on 31 march at the latest. i think it is very good news and i think it is appropriate and fair to congratulate the commission, mr šefčovič and the spanish presidency on the impetus they have given to this initiative and on the agreement to present a very important proposal to this parliament. it is very important because, firstly, i think it strengthens the legitimacy of the european parliament. because it gives the citizen direct access to parliament, not through the parties, but directly, with nothing more and nothing less than a proposal for a law. it is the direct access of the citizen to parliament that reinforces the legitimacy of the parliament. it reinforces the idea of citizenship, which is at the very origin of the european project. from maastricht onwards, it is the citizen who is at the centre of the european project and who plays a key role here. thirdly, i would say that it is something which is extraordinarily conducive to the connection between institutions and citizens, something which we have always been demanding and which we have never achieved. it is an opportunity for people to really see the european parliament up close and understand what it can do. that is what leads me to make a couple of recommendations which largely coincide with those made earlier by mr méndez de vigo. i think it is important to draw up a text which is, first of all, really flexible, that is to say, which allows this right to be exercised; which allows many people to exercise it, because we have to define in how many countries, with what percentages, with what systems of signatures. please be flexible! make this initiative easily accessible, but also make it clear and not disappointing. there is a fundamental, preliminary procedure by the commission to say whether a draft initiative is going to succeed or not, whether it is possible to do so or not. before the signatures are collected, we must say yes or no, so as not to frustrate expectations: clarity and flexibility, ladies and gentlemen, in this project and, of course, congratulations.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, we are now two years into the events of the tibetan uprising and we hope that the attacks, arrests and deaths that occurred two years ago will not take place after the demonstrations. in any case, this debate is of very dubious timing, because parliament has spoken on several occasions in recent months on the subject of china and, above all, because china is a major international actor whose relations with the european union go far beyond the issue of tibet. although the issue of human rights is very important, parliament only expresses its opinion on tibet and not on human rights. in any case, in this debate our position, the socialist position, is very clear: we have exactly the same position as the european union. that is, we stand for human rights and we also stand for dialogue, encounter and agreement. in this connection, we fully support and welcome the resumption of negotiations between the chinese authorities and the representatives of tibet and call for a mutually acceptable solution based on respect for the religious and cultural rights of minorities and within the framework of the territorial integrity of china, of a single state. i am deeply sorry that the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is not here, because she is the president of the foreign affairs council and should be present at the foreign policy debates. and to say that the spanish presidency is doing wrong by not being present in this debate is profoundly unfair, because the spanish presidency is tireless. it is almost superhuman that mr lópez garrido is in this parliament to discuss all the issues. we have a high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy who chairs the positions of the ministers on foreign policy and who should be debating these issues with parliament.
madam president, to speak about tibet here today is a matter of justice and a matter of responsibility; therefore, i disagree with those who think that this issue is 'not relevant'. we have been denouncing this issue for many years and i am concerned to note that, despite the enormous efforts being made by the tibetan delegation and especially the dalai lama to promote dialogue, to get closer to the chinese authorities, to find a just and lasting solution to this conflict, the blockade situation is continually caused by the chinese authorities. we in the european union cannot continue to accept this game, much less encourage it. i think it is therefore essential not only to recall once again the urgency and relevance of this debate, but also to recall again that it is china which is currently preventing a solution. and in this respect we must also be clear. the only way for the european union to be consistent when it says it is committed to human rights is to accept that it has to bear a cost in business terms and in economic terms as well. if it is not, it will never be credible in terms of human rights.
mr president, i welcome commissioner lewandowski, an old friend of this house who now sits in a different seat from his colleagues. i also welcome the return to the traditional system of budgetary guidelines. i think this is a good thing, because it gives the commissioner the opportunity to hear the budgetary priorities of the european parliament before the draft budget is drawn up. the commissioner is hearing or is about to hear today very different things from what he is probably hearing every day from the different directorates-general, who are pressing him to have more budget. we in parliament are not going to put pressure on him at the moment. as you know, we'll be doing that from september. now, simply, what we want is for mr lewandowski to be very clear about what the budgetary priorities of this parliament are. they're our suggestions. every day new challenges arise for the 2011 budget. we already have new tensions in category 4, where we have a very narrow margin which is going to be aggravated by the need to include the baltic sea strategy. we shall have tensions in agriculture, not only because we are introducing codecision but above all because we intend to make use of it from this parliament and will not accept new agricultural budget appropriations to finance other budget lines; and, of course, we shall have to solve the always difficult problem of category 5 of administrative expenditure and greater transparency. one last thing: this parliament is very keen to save money, both from the community budget and from the budget of the european parliament. what we are not prepared to do, i think, as political groups, is to put up with the demagogy of certain people who make it their way of doing politics.
member of the commission. - madam president, mr scotta, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the central element that gives personality to the european agricultural and agri-food model at world level is precisely its policy of quality and diversity. and that is why quality policy in the agri-food sector will be one of the priorities of my mandate, one of the main priorities immediately after the reform of the cap for the period after 2013. the agri-food quality policy is not only proof that european farmers are responsive to the expectations of european consumers, but it can also be the spearhead of the presence of the european agri-food sector on the international market. for quality policy to achieve its objective, we need a framework which is clear, readable, well structured, well identified by consumers, and as far as possible, complete and sufficient. my aim is to be able to structure the content of the quality policy and make it more accessible both to farmers, who must be the beneficiaries, and to consumers, without losing the substance and emptying the content of this quality policy. the quality policy means assurance for the consumer, but it also means added value for the farmer, and i agree with mr scotta on this. it can help to maintain the diversity of our farms, and to do so in a competitive way, because a farm that can sell its products is competitive. if it can live off what it produces, it's competitive. and if they can sell high value-added products, they are all the more competitive, even if they are sometimes small farms. i therefore believe that quality policy in certain regions can also be an element in increasing the competitiveness of our farms. in this sense, quality policy and the development of local markets, short circuits, direct and close contact between consumers and producers can give good results in increasing the competitiveness of certain types of agriculture which are currently quite small on the market. european farmers are already making efforts to provide safe products, produced using techniques that respect the environment and animal welfare. the debate on how to make this more visible through the labelling system is useful and welcome, and the report provides some elements and ideas in this regard. i think that these links between the standards that farmers comply with and the quality policy of labelling should also be the subject of the debates we will be having in relation to the common agricultural policy after 2013. that's my intention, anyway. i believe that we must develop and evolve our instruments for communication policy, both with european farmers and consumers, and above all at international level. i believe that our quality system can be a good ambassador for our agri-food model and even for our common agricultural policy. all that said, i would like to conclude by saying that mr scotta's report comes at an opportune time. as you know, the commission intends to present a legislative package on quality policy by the end of 2010. the report which mr scotta is presenting today and which we are going to debate contains some questions, ideas and proposals in this respect, and i shall endeavour to take these ideas into account as far as possible when i come before you with the legislative proposals. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the members of the committees of this parliament who have worked on this report and i would be very happy to hear your views and proposals.
opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - madam president, the first thing i would like to do tonight is to thank mr scott for his excellent willingness to negotiate this report. it was a real pleasure to work with him and the other spokesmen for the parliamentary groups. we are proud of the position which will be demonstrated tomorrow in the vote in this european parliament and of a report like this, which defends quality, which is committed to the development and enhancement of rural areas, not only as mere testimonies of a traditional european culture, but as real agents generating wealth and employment, employment which we so badly need at this time of economic crisis and dramatic situation in employment levels in some member states. we also like the defence of this european parliament and the position already taken by the committee on agriculture and rural development, which has made it clear that it is committed to quality at its highest level. and to that extent we are naturally committed to maintaining the distinction between protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications. we are of course opposed to the idea of levelling down quality and we want attention to be paid to and value to community production. i welcome the words of commissioner cioloş. it was certainly nice to hear him talk about the commitment to the future of european agriculture. we naturally hope that you will hear that voice from this parliament, which will be reflected in the vote tomorrow. finally, i would like to say that we hope that the european commission will never again go ahead of this parliament by banning things such as marketing standards for fruit and vegetables, which have done so much damage to free competition in europe. we want to correct the market imbalances and we also want to focus on quality, variety, food safety and the right amount of production. we also want to see community production and the quality of community agri-food production defended in the world trade organisation. we also have the work of commissioner cioloş to do that, because neither our european producers nor our european consumers can remain defenseless.
madam president, commissioner, the quality of agricultural products is an essential factor in the food chain and an essential asset in supporting the competitiveness of european producers. all this is reflected in the scott report, which also highlights other considerations which the commission will have to take into account in developing this policy. the european union quality logo, reflecting the commitment of our producers to the requirements of production within the union, should be reserved exclusively for agricultural products produced in the european union. greater protection of geographical indications should be granted both in the wto and in the negotiation of bilateral agreements, and european rules on integrated production should be developed to give visibility to this more sustainable production method and harmonise the existing criteria in each member state. finally, we must take account of the imbalances in the marketing chain, the importance of sectoral marketing standards and the need to develop european guidelines for good practice for the operation of systems relating to the quality of agricultural products and their mutual recognition. i am referring in particular to the control of private certification schemes which are often used as a condition for access to large distribution areas.
member of the commission. − madam president, the latest projections from the ilo and the oecd show that unemployment rates in the industrialised countries are still rising and will not reach their climax before 2011. in turn, more than 200 million workers in developing and emerging countries are at risk of being pushed into extreme poverty. this would result in nearly 1.5 billion working poor worldwide. these figures speak for themselves. indeed the current crisis highlighted the most painful weaknesses of our increasingly interconnected global economy. there is now a clear consensus on the need for global actions to solve global problems. last year in pittsburgh leaders of the g20 pledged to ensure that when growth returns, jobs do too. accordingly the g20 leaders agreed to build an employment-oriented framework for future economic growth. this is all very welcome. the commission lends full support to any framework for actions that put quality jobs at the heart of recovery and help people back to work worldwide. this approach reflects the unmistakable reality that employment is the bottom line in the current global economic crisis, and that a jobless recovery is not an option. in pittsburgh the leaders invited the us labour secretary to convene a meeting of g20 labour and employment ministers. their mandate will be to assess the global employment situation and discuss the impact of policy responses to the crisis as well as the possible necessity of any further measures. moreover, ministers are to consider medium-term employment and skills development policies, social protection programmes and best practices to ensure workers can benefit from advances in science and technology. this unprecedented meeting will take place in washington dc on 20 and 21 april. the commission and the spanish presidency will also participate. the commission is working closely with the ilo on the preparations for the meeting which will offer us in particular an opportunity to promote decent work worldwide on behalf of the european union. the application of the ilo’s internationally recognised core labour standards and efforts to achieve the objective of a basic social security flow are crucial here. moreover the g20 mandate includes the development by the ilo and other international organisations of a medium-term global training strategy. the commission is making a significant contribution to these efforts through the new skills for new jobs initiative. this is part of the europe 2020 flagship initiative on an agenda for new skills and jobs. the key challenge here is to move forward with a strategy to reskill and upgrade the global workforce and facilitate transitions between jobs, and from education to work, for young people. social partners’ involvement can bring tremendous added value. we all know here how effective the european social dialogue can be when it comes to improving the design of various measures in the employment field. the commission is ready to share this experience with the european union’s international partners. the commission will keep parliament informed about the progress made at the washington dc meeting. the g20 labour ministers’ meeting will be an opportunity for us to develop new measures which will shape the post-crisis policy framework. these new measures and policies can contribute to a balanced exit from the crisis in putting jobs at the heart of the recovery and can overcome the legacy of the crisis. the aim is to give the necessary input and orientation to the g20 leaders’ summits in canada and in korea later this year.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, this g20 summit forces us to recognise that the first objective we must achieve is the development of employability of workers. this is a necessity, because there is no integration into social life without integration through working life. so today, in preparing for this g20, the only motto and the only objective we can have together is the fight against unemployment. as you have just said, commissioner, unemployment has increased considerably in the european union and in the world, but we can clearly see that inequalities are widening and widening even more sharply among young people, temporary workers, migrants and women. so when we see today that 21.4% of young people are unemployed, whereas there were 14.7% - that was already a lot - two years ago, the rate of progress is very worrying. we must therefore build together at european and global level - because the response can only be global - convergence and integration strategies which explicitly recognise that dynamic social and cohesion policies are the pillar of our society's development. i would also like to recall the ilo global employment pact, which offers a suitable set of strategic options for overcoming the crisis. where are we on the european commission's proposal to base the framework of the new post-2010 strategy on the social market economy, inclusion and transparency? i hope that our european ministers of labour and employment will not forget at this summit that they will have to account for the increase in employment to all the millions of unemployed who have accumulated in recent months. commissioner andor, the european union is therefore expecting you to take action so that we can reassure our fellow citizens and get them back to work.
i am very pleased that we can have this debate this afternoon in preparation for the summit which will bring you together in washington on 20 and 21 april. the president of the employment committee, mrs pervenche berès, is to much indebted for this meeting. a force majeure prevented you from being here today. i'm going to speak next on behalf of both of you. i'll speak in your language, in french, and with the papers she had prepared, because i'm sure she would have been very interested in you hearing her words: that is why, mr commissioner, as the unemployment rate in europe is about to cross the 10% threshold, there are more than one and a half billion working poor in the world and the crisis has hit 200 million new working poor, it is time for leaders to look at the social consequences of the crisis and give priority to employment. we welcome the preparatory work which you have carried out in close cooperation and in a spirit of dialogue with the social partners. the meeting was called by the heads of state and government meeting in pittsburgh to reconcile the macroeconomic issues and the social dimension. it is essential, if we do not want to repeat the mistakes that led to the crisis, to avoid the crisis from further exacerbating social inequalities within our countries, between the member states of the union and at world level. we must prevent a hasty strategy of exiting the crisis from leading to the dismantling of the social model, because the foundations of this crisis, which we have been going through for the last three years, are of social origin. it is not enough to regulate financial products, we must tackle the deep roots of the problem. we fear, unfortunately, that despite numerous reports from organizations such as the ilo or even the oecd pointing to the aggravation of social inequalities, political will is still lacking in social matters. pour preuve, the très faible visibilité of the question sociale, which is not even mentioned on the official g20 website. the recent decision of the ecofin council to end the exceptional measures of support for employment to restore public finances rapidly is also unacceptable. a dangerous game is being played between the ministers of finance and the ministers of employment and social affairs. mr commissioner, we are counting on you and the spanish presidency to contradict this logic in the short term and to put the social question at the heart of action at european and world level.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the measures to include the following: this crisis has slowed down the sustained growth that many of these countries have been experiencing over the last decade: economic growth that created jobs, led to the cleanup of their public accounts, reduced their external debt, encouraged the expansion of their commercial activity and, moreover, helped to receive more official development assistance. however, in the years before the crisis, these countries had already suffered first from the food crisis, which threatened the livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people; then from the energy crisis, which took up many resources of those who did not produce oil or gas; and finally from the climate crisis, whose effects on crops or infrastructure are most damaging to the poorest countries. the financial crisis has exacerbated the weakness of these countries. as the european commission itself points out, after having affected both developed and emerging countries, the third wave of the financial crisis has hit the poorest countries, turning this crisis, which was initially an economic crisis, into a development crisis, a social crisis and a humanitarian crisis. in fact, all fields of activity in these countries have been damaged. economic growth has been damaged and will be much lower in 2009 than in previous years. trade has been reduced, which will hurt the current account balance of these countries. there is less foreign investment and weak access to international finance for these countries, and there is a growing protectionist reaction from the developed countries. in addition, remittances from emigrants have decreased and official development assistance has also been reduced. as a result, hundreds of millions of people have been added to the list of the poorest and hundreds of thousands of children will die earlier in continents like africa. in the face of this reality, the european voice must be heard by calling for the commitments made in official development aid to be maintained; by calling for new sources of additional resources to help these countries; by calling for the burdens and fees for migrants to be reduced; by calling for protectionist temptations not to be applied and for support for the holding of a doha development round; by calling for the fight against tax havens and tax evasion; and also by working for a debt moratorium or debt relief for the poorest countries. as rapporteur for this report i have tried to achieve the greatest possible consensus and have accepted amendments from all the groups in the house, but i am still preparing to table an oral amendment to paragraph 34 of this report tomorrow, in order to get more votes, more will for something i believe is essential: that the european voice be united and strong in helping the developing countries.
mr president, although the developing countries are not at the epicentre of the crisis, they have been seriously and profoundly affected by its surge. the contraction of credit, the uncertainty caused by the depression cycle and the fall in international trade, investment flows and remittances from migrant workers have been the main channels of propagation of a crisis preceded by a great volatility in the prices of commodities and food and occurring in a scenario of enormous global imbalances. a concerted response to the crisis must involve developing countries and its agenda must be an essential part of global economic cooperation. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has asked the international monetary fund to take account of the burden it has placed on the public finances of developing countries in the report it is to prepare for the next g20 meeting and for the commission to present a communication assessing how a financial transaction tax can contribute to achieving the millennium development goals, correcting global imbalances and promoting sustainable development. i am grateful to mr guerrero for having accepted these proposals and i congratulate him on his excellent report.
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs edward scicluna, a great expert on central banks, and sven giegold, with whom and with the other rapporteurs we have had long discussions and have finally agreed on many transactional amendments. today i would like to talk to you about the euro. you see, i'm new to politics; until nine months ago i was teaching macroeconomics at the university of barcelona. in the fall of 2008, i was living in london with my family for academic reasons and i witnessed firsthand the sudden fall of the pound sterling, 30% in a few weeks. all of a sudden, all my english colleagues were impoverished and to this day the pound has still not recovered. given the fall in the pound, i can't imagine what the peseta would be worth today if we still had it in our pockets. these two years of terrible global economic crisis have shown that the euro has been a powerful anchor of stability. in fact, it is the only major western currency that has not impoverished its citizens. the euro has been a safe harbour amid the great waves of global financial storms, as british financier david marsh suggestively put it. a long-time eurosceptic, this renowned financier published a book a year ago praising the euro as a success story and a future global currency. the euro is not in crisis today, it is a few fiscal crises in some member countries that are putting the single currency in difficulty. the euro is a shining example of monetary union that is being studied and admired by the economic elites of china, india, brazil and russia. the euro is not a risk to the mediterranean economies. the euro represents the opportunity for the final integration of their economies into the reformist and advanced good practices of the central european countries. the report we are debating today makes a strong denunciation of state intervention in the chinese currency. its artificial devaluation has contributed to the great global imbalances that are one of the causes of this crisis. in the euro area we must not penalize the countries and territories which are the biggest exporters. the history of financial crises teaches us that economic recovery comes, after the financial clean-up, from the hand of exports. it is true that germany must boost its consumption and become more of a driving force for european economic growth, but it must not in any case give up its export potential. i am a catalan liberal member of parliament, and catalonia - which generates 28% of spanish exports - also has a very high ratio between exports and gross domestic product, almost 30%. we can't penalize the best of them. finally, the euro today has a great prestige worldwide, but it would have to make a little more effort to be transparent. mr trichet, the dialogues of the european central bank's debates should be published, as the united states, japan and sweden do.
mr president, the crisis we are going through is the worst in eight decades and the most important since the beginning of the community project. it emerged with the north american subprime mortgage and, following the bankruptcy of lehman brothers, is now in a third phase, after leaving europe with a 4% fall in gdp in 2009, more than 23 million unemployed and a sharp deterioration in public finances, with a debt exceeding 80% of gdp. the european central bank was instrumental in maintaining liquidity in the system, using unconventional mechanisms to counter credit restraint and cooperating closely with the main monetary authorities. with a moderate recovery expected and no inflationary pressures, it should continue to contribute to the restoration of credit and prevent a hasty or indiscriminate withdrawal of the extraordinary measures from jeopardising the economic recovery. the crisis has taught us that the monetary and economic pillars - the foundations of monetary policy - must be strengthened by monitoring price developments in major financial assets and private borrowing, in order to ensure price stability and the stability of the economy as a whole. twenty member states are in the excessive deficit procedure. the real meaning of consolidating public finances, an inexcusable task which must be carried out in a coordinated and intelligent manner, is to restore demand, promote investment and accompany the reforms which will enable the economy to be revived, increase the potential for sustainable growth and create jobs. greater economic union can make a difference. global imbalances must be corrected. the european union is one of the most balanced regions. it may be compromised if it does not strengthen its competitiveness and international monetary cooperation. we will only improve our ability to compete globally if we strengthen internal economic coordination in the areas of competitiveness and the balance of payments to correct imbalances and divergences within the euro area. the effort and courage of greece deserve clear and decisive support. it is a matter of common interest, and uncertainty is bad for all europeans. subsidiarity and solidarity are the two sides of the european coin. the euro is more than a currency, as president trichet said in english, french and german; it is our common destiny. i repeat it in spanish, one of the global languages of the european union, and i end by saying it in greek, the language that best expresses our universal vocation: το ευρώ είναι το κοινό μας μέλλον.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
member of the commission. − mr president, the members have for their consideration a draft decision supplementing the schengen borders code as regards the surveillance of the external borders in the context of frontex operations at sea. this is a necessary decision and it will help member states and frontex to manage our external sea borders more efficiently. as you know, the number of boats will increase very soon as they always do at this time of year in the mediterranean. the proposal contains a set of very important principles and clarifications of rules that border guards must apply when controlling sea borders, for example the principle of non-refoulement and the obligation to treat vulnerable peoples and unaccompanied minors with special care. it also clarifies what assistance should be provided to persons in danger at sea and where to disembark persons that are rescued. many of you in this house have asked for these principles and rules for years and now finally they are within our reach. the changes that we are proposing will also reduce the risk of lives being lost in the mediterranean by making sea border operations more efficient. the draft decision is the result of very hard and long discussions with member states and with experts from, for instance, the united nations high commissioner for refugees and the international organisation for migration. it will provide our institutions with a better framework for exercising a proper monitoring of these operations where significant european funds are involved. on the legal aspects of the proposal, the commission has chosen article 12 of the schengen border code as the legal basis because the rules concern border surveillance patrols during frontex operations, not border checks as i think parliament’s legal opinion argues. at the request of members of this house, the commission has made an investigation of alternative technical solutions that would allow for, firstly, not reopening the discussions on the substance and, secondly, having clear rules adopted in time for frontex operations this summer. unfortunately, we have not found such an alternative so i therefore recommend the honourable members not to reject these long-awaited new rules.
we cannot open a debate on that now, mr busuttil. you have the floor, but we cannot open a debate.
we're going to vote.
i am pleased to inform you that we have the visit, within the framework of our interparliamentary meetings, of a delegation from the tunisian parliament chaired by mr salah tabarki, chairman of the committee on political affairs, human rights and foreign affairs of the house of representatives. we warmly welcome mr tabarki and the members of his delegation and i would like to stress the importance we attach to this visit, which is the first to take place in the last five years. the european parliament is following with great interest the political and economic developments in tunisia, whose main trading partner is the european union. the relations you will establish with the european parliament's delegation for the maghreb will provide you with an appropriate institutional framework for political dialogue on issues of mutual interest in the field of the development of democracy and the rule of law. so we wish them a happy stay and a fruitful work.
the rapporteur. - mr president, thank you for all those who have cooperated in the preparation of this report. i would simply point out that when we come to paragraph 31 there is an oral amendment which, as agreed, i am reading in its english version in the second part at the moment. considers it appropriate, therefore, to explore the grounds for an agreement with creditor countries to establish a temporary moratorium or debt cancellation for the poorest countries to enable them to implement countercyclical fiscal policies to mitigate the severe effects of the crisis; proposes that efforts be made to facilitate arrangements for transparent debt arbitration;
in any case, mr guerrero, if we are not misinformed, this oral amendment concerns paragraph 34 and not paragraph 31. (mr guerrero points out that it does indeed concern the second part of paragraph 34) now the matter is clear. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
mr swoboda, yes, you can, yes, you can call for a split vote, in accordance with the procedure which the groups themselves have requested. however, everything is reviewable; it can be reviewed in the future, but for the moment it is like this.
thank you, mr hannan, for sanctifying the morning in parliament.
in writing. − i voted ‘yes’ at the final vote on this resolution. it needs to be said that there has been an informal meeting with the council and the commission, where it became clear that parliament could agree to the procedure. the draft report submitted to vote by jo leinen takes over the com proposal and amendments have been tabled in the envi committee. the council already agreed it would approve parliament’s position; thus a first-reading agreement is to be assumed. we greens agree with the procedure.
in writing. − i followed our rapporteur’s position on this topic, giegold, and voted in favour of his report. the annual statement of the commission on the euro area aims to stimulate a broad debate on euro-area economic policies. more specifically, it presents the commission’s views on the challenges the euro-area economy has to face on the one hand and its analysis of the appropriate response of economic policies on the other hand.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the inclusion of roma communities is one of the s&d group's priorities. this resolution sets out the european parliament's position on the forthcoming european summit on the roma population to be held in cordoba on 8 and 9 april, under the spanish presidency. the situation of the roma population is different from that of other minorities in the eu and their inclusion requires effective policies to reduce the systematic discrimination they face. to do this, all levels of government, from the eu to local governments, must be involved and play a role in making equal treatment a reality, as it is one of the eu's core values. the resolution calls on the european institutions to contribute in a coordinated and strategic way to the inclusion of the roma population in europe. the cordoba summit should serve to take a step forward, moving from good intentions towards concrete policies to overcome the problems faced by this population in terms of access to housing, education, public services and employment.
in writing. − i am really glad this resolution was adopted (i obviously voted in favour) as it includes crucial statements in terms of promoting non-discrimination against the roma population. more specifically, it once again calls on the european commission to develop a comprehensive european strategy for roma inclusion as the instrument for combating social exclusion and discrimination of roma in europe.
in writing. − contrary to our position (i voted in favour), the qualified majority was not reached, and so the resolution to reject the commission proposal and follow the advice of parliament’s legal services has fallen. this means that the schengen borders code will now be amended as proposed by commission under the comitology procedure, adding the annex, with non-binding measures on obligations during sea search and rescue operations to the directive. we can only hope that the commission will indeed use this as an opportunity to monitor more rigorously the operations coordinated by frontex so we can avoid human tragedy and despair at sea. there is a real risk, however, with this result that we will not be able to push for binding measures in the frontex mandate being revised right now, but of course we cannot give up, and must try our best to obtain a better result in the future work on this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important report. the guidelines are the first step in the budget procedure, giving general guidance to the secretary-general and the bureau of the european parliament for the subsequent step, the preliminary draft estimates, which are currently already before the bureau.
in writing. − i finally voted in favour of the resolution mainly because our amendments 3 (concerning opposition to standardisation rules for fruit and vegetables) and 5 (concerning mandatory place-of-origin labelling) were adopted.
in writing. − i am glad the report was adopted, although with a tight majority (283 votes in favour, 278 against and 15 abstentions), especially because some split votes requested by the epp to weaken the report on paragraphs – taxing the banking system for global social justice, international levy on financial transaction, debt moratorium and debt cancellation – did not succeed. all these paragraphs were adopted by comfortable majority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as did the vast majority of parliament. it was not a controversial issue, nor were there any amendments in the house which might divert the substance of the agreement.
mr president, mr president of the european council, two messages: one of concern, the other of demanding encouragement for the work ahead. concern about the weak nature and genuine european dimension of the response, the involvement of the imf and the use of bilateral loans. concern about the ineffectiveness of the response, which means that in the short term the greek debt will become more expensive, but also concern about the lack of understanding of the underlying problem, which we have stressed here in this parliament. the greek problem is a problem for the euro area and, by extension, for the whole of the european union: the deficit and, consequently, the debt have soared as a result of the financial rescue plans, which have cost a lot, and therefore austerity should not jeopardise the investment needed for economic recovery, nor the financing of the reforms that are essential. that is why the second message is one of demanding encouragement. the necessary reforms must be accompanied by a strategy whose importance must not be diminished in the eyes of the europeans. let us therefore focus on the renewal of the european model that is so important to us: education, yes, and the knowledge society, but also a commitment to quality employment and above all to equal employment that will make us better off in the future without neglecting the fight against poverty. that is why i invite you, mr president of the european council, to make sure that the council and the commission, in the 2020 strategy which this parliament will also have to deal with, are ambitious and live up to their responsibilities, because it is clear that this parliament will, in any case, live up to its responsibilities in front of the european citizens who are watching us.
mr president, i will try to say two new things about two of the subjects discussed at the european council: strategy 2020 and the regulation of financial markets. with regard to strategy 2020, we have all said here for a long time that one of the reasons for the relative failure of the lisbon strategy was that there were not enough tools to force member states to honour their commitments. the commission and the european council are now coming up with a proposal which is more of the same: soft coordination, with reference to articles 121 and 136 of the treaty. the president-in-office of the council opened the spanish presidency by saying that he was aware of this weakness, that he wanted more, that he wanted to strengthen economic governance. and i ask you now, mr president of the european council, what was so gallant? what was so inventive as they brought? what's left of those purposes? in the matter of financial regulation, one bad news and two good news. the bad news is that the council has decided to delay the regulation of alternative investment funds - what was called casino capitalism - precisely at a time when these funds have been partly responsible for speculation against the greek economy. the two good news is that strategy 2020 talks about forcing financial institutions to make a buck to pay for some of the plates that break, or as obama would say, to prevent main street from paying for wall street's destruction, and the second is that the council for the first time singles out the systemic institutions that it wants to give special attention to. these two things are in the reports which parliament is now debating. they are not in the agreement reached by the council in december. i would like the european council to take up these two ideas, the strategy and the council, because then we will be much closer to dancing the tango. and believe me, mr president, i am very much looking forward to dancing it with the council you preside over.
madam president, last week a court ruled that the closure of the basque newspaper egunkaria, which i spoke of here a few weeks ago, was an unfair, illegal and arbitrary act. the court's ruling says that neither the spanish constitution nor the penal code allows closing a newspaper; that the entire accusation was built from the prejudice that defending basque culture is collaborating with eta, which is nonsense; that the accused are completely innocent; that they do not belong to eta; that the newspaper has not financed eta nor eta financed the newspaper; that the detainees suffered incommunicado that had a deficient judicial control, which gives credibility to the allegations of ill-treatment and torture made by the detainees. i therefore ask you to do two things: to take note of the consequences of demagogy and the manipulation of feelings and the exceptional legislation in democracy, and to take note of the fact that in spain the mainstream media and political parties accused all those who opposed this injustice of collaborating with eta, and to cooperate so that justice is also done to these victims and so that the case is justly closed.
madam president, despite the difficulties which have cruelly become apparent this week in connection with the absence, at present, of a single european sky and, above all, of a genuine single authority for the control and management of that single sky, we are nevertheless gradually approaching the objective set and this text should therefore be a further tool along that path. i know the tenacity of the rapporteur, mr leichtfried, whom i congratulate on his work and also on his particular sensitivity to air and social aspects, but in this case i think we are perhaps sinning with a certain naiveté and maximalism and we run the risk of not achieving the best by asking for the best. the creation of a common system with an independent supervisory authority and all the conditions for fair and transparent competition in the field of fares, taking account of environmental and social criteria, passenger protection, etc., seems to me to be a perfect solution, but i still think - and i would like the commission to clarify this - that some aspects are still missing. for example, what mrs de veyrac has just said: i do not see the system clearly recognized whereby parliament votes on rates by parliamentary agreement and it is the body which must apply it. i have not yet seen - and i would like the commission to clarify this for me - how viable this text can be given the differences with the council and, above all, the coherence or inconsistency, in my view, between this text and the general directive on airport charges. i think that, given the great uncertainty and the opposition between who is going to pay the costs of this security - which i admit is public - it must be made clear that when we talk about the states paying, it is the citizens in general who are going to pay. when you talk about states, it seems like an abstract person, but no, it's every single citizen that we travel with. so i'm afraid we're finally seeing little progress. i would therefore like to hear the commission's views on the future of this text.
madam president, the text before us today is a fine-tuning, a consolidation of the procedure for establishing the transeuropean networks, which prepares us for the definitive launch of the penultimate and final phases of the revision, already in a europe of 27, richer and more complex spatially and with new and innovative mobility needs. the executive agency for the transeuropean transport network is already working at full capacity. we have almost all the coordinators of the corridors and we hope that the remaining ones will soon be completed so that we can promote those we need. we also have enormous expectations in our neighbourhood, particularly in the mediterranean, in relation to these networks and those they have, and we look forward to the communication that the commission has promised us on the methodology, which will complete the consultation and the debates, before we launch into one of the most exciting exercises of our committee on transport and tourism. the mobility and cohesion network is being realised, which will for the first time integrate and dynamically articulate the common space of the european union of 27, identifying the essential nodes 'ports, airports and logistics nodes', overcoming border barriers and including, among other things - and i will be allowed to do so - the central permeabilization of a historic barrier such as the pyrenees by means of a low-level tunnel, thus achieving a future project for the europe of the 21st century that contains such a force of conviction that it achieves the necessary financing. that is our challenge, but today, for the moment, more humbly, we will simply pass this first exercise of legislative refinement, for which i congratulate our president, mr simpson.
madam president, parliament is about to approve this recasting of the transeuropean networks and i would like the commission to tell me as specifically as possible when we will be able to have access to the communication on methodology. as you know, commissioner, this is one of the priorities of the spanish presidency and we are already past the equator. i would therefore like to know as specifically as possible when we can have that text, since parliament is going to approve the recast and will therefore be free to examine that new text.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr van dalen and also my colleague mr fleckenstein on this brilliant initiative, which advances the european parliament's ambition in the field of the european union's maritime policy, and i would also like to thank them for their generosity in accepting a good part of my suggestions. the report thus completed includes such important issues as support for the adaptation of ports and vessels to the needs of people with reduced mobility, the requirement for ratification of the ilo maritime labour convention 2006 - and also calls for the industry to incorporate it into its practices - and the extension of vocational training proposals to all levels of the shipping industry to combat their undervaluation and exploitation. it also proposes leadership in the fight against pollution before the imo, both in the aspects of alternatives to bunker fuel and in the reduction of sulphur emissions, and suggests that this be done by using intelligent transport systems such as the galileo satellite system. the report also proposes to recognise the increase in the european fight against piracy and to support the increasing effectiveness of operation atalanta, as well as the requirement to improve the quality of the design of the vessels to adapt them to the highest requirements of accessibility and safety. finally, i am particularly pleased that the role of ports in the new transeuropean networks has been recognised, including their crucial connection with inland ports and logistics platforms.
mr president, mr lópez garrido, mr kallas, thank you very much for the explanations and for the efforts made. i share with you that the priority is security, that it is a complicated crisis that has hit us, but that we have been late in communication, because we have done it five days after the first contact. but to live up to what the people, the european citizens, expect from us today, the conclusions of this debate must be clear, simple and, moreover, practical. and they have to have immediate effects that can be felt by everyone. the taxpayers, who will also have to pay for this crisis, are therefore entitled to at least three guarantees: first, greater transparency on decisions to close airports and on the development of the situation. because it was reported late in the first hours of the crisis, which, i believe, facilitated the increase in problems at many airports and, moreover, impaired the possibilities of many users to plan alternative journeys. so there is greater transparency now that the three areas have been defined. we want to know what they are and what they're going to assume. secondly, a radical respect for the rights of passengers. we need clarity; we need to define clearly who is responsible for passenger rights, what the scope of these rights will be and the time limits within which they can be exercised. i also agree with commissioner kallas that we need to monitor the processes that companies will use to meet these demands. and finally, state aid to companies. i ask you to define clearly what these state aids are going to be and on what criteria they are going to be granted and that we monitor and control the possible consequences that this crisis may have on the workers of the airlines. the control measures must also be tightened up to prevent companies from taking advantage of these circumstances to make free or excessive work adjustments. and the need to develop further european coordination and interoperability is what this crisis has made clear to us today.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity of this debate to confront us with our responsibilities. in the face of modern crises, the national dimension and intergovernmental decisions are not enough, nor are simple solutions, even if they come from statistical models. it is right to acknowledge the diligence with which the spanish presidency of the council, already the day after the closure of airspace, saw the opportunity of the european approach to seek a solution to a chaos which was already overwhelming national governments and which, above all, was plunging thousands of travellers into utter despair inside and outside our borders and whose repatriation must be our priority. while the initial measures were adequate, following the precautionary principle and guaranteeing the safety of citizens - those flying and those overflown - the uncertainty about the future and the growing confusion, the result of the complexity of intergovernmental decisions, raised the big question, the usual one: what is europe doing? and here, the joint work - we must admit it - of commissioner kallas and the spanish presidency has succeeded in changing in record time, never fast enough - but the truth is that, given the difficulties, in record time - an approach which, being cautious, as it cannot be otherwise, raises important questions. the conclusion of this election: the application of passenger rights cannot withstand an exceptional situation. european and national work has not been enough. in the short term, we need to repatriate and provide urgent solutions, but in the medium term we need to do better. the foreign service should also be able to deal with these emergencies; in some cases a weekend cannot be closed. the airline industry, travel agencies, the tourist industry, logistics, etc., which were just beginning to see the crisis coming to an end, have been brutally hit, and i am glad that commissioner almunia is here, as he will be responsible for managing the solution needed for the sector. ending uncertainty as soon as possible will also help us to get out of this crisis. and finally, clearly, we lack a replacement system for air mobility, even if there is a single sky. neither rail, road nor shipping have been able to replace it.
thank you very much, colleagues. we are now facing a critical situation, because, without a doubt, the issue we are debating is so urgent and so distressing for many, and in particular for citizens, that we have more requests to 'pull the president's eye' than ever before. we are in a record situation where we have, at the moment, i think, 13 or 15 requests, and although there are still requests to speak, obviously there cannot be 20 people speaking. however, we will try to get everyone involved, among other things, until the president arrives, who has been away for a moment and whom i am replacing in an impromptu way, but as i do not want to start the next debate, we will be 'hunting the president's eye' until the president's eye falls out or everyone on the list finishes speaking.
mr president, the commissioner has spoken of the absurdity and obsolescence of procedures. so let us be consistent. we have missed too many opportunities, too many treaties, to introduce community competence over european airspace. but if we could not intervene as it should in the sky, yes on the skin of the earth. for example, by monitoring passenger rights and also by mediating or calling for a truce in the various collective land transport disputes. no minimum services, maximum services to all parties.
mr president, i believe that the answers that can be given now will only alleviate the present situation, but will not prevent it from happening again. there are no shortcuts in transport, no short-term solutions and this should be an opportunity, also at the time when the white paper is being drawn up, to include, introduce and establish the necessary measures to reduce the over-reliance on our air transport links. we must balance these connections by facilitating and strengthening alternatives which are currently at a much lower level, such as rail or maritime transport. i therefore believe that both mr kallas and mr grosch, who is the rapporteur for the report, will have taken note of the requests made by all the members concerning the need to strengthen the railways and the transeuropean networks in this mode of transport.
mr president, commissioners, my first words of condolence and thanks are addressed to the families and colleagues of the four spanish soldiers who died in haiti last week. they were special commandos of the spanish army, but they went there as simple soldiers of international solidarity and were working as solidarity actors when their helicopter crashed. their example shows that there is no contradiction, most of the time, between security and humanitarian action. moreover, without security it is difficult to maintain independence and neutrality in humanitarian action work. and this is a recognition we have to make to the armed forces of many european countries, including those of spain. mr president, commissioners, haiti shows us that poverty makes the damage caused by natural disasters extraordinarily severe and that the lack of governance also hinders the possibility of an effective response. normally, poverty and lack of governance go together and this was and is the case in haiti, so that, in addition to supporting the reconstruction processes, we have to support the governance of haiti, because only then can we achieve the goal that we set ourselves in new york: that haiti itself should lead its reconstruction and its civil society should participate in it.
the rapporteur, mrs lulling, has already said that the commission's communication on the european union and latin america is a good one, and that it is a good one. and indeed, i think it is difficult to find two more coincident spaces in values and interests than europe and latin america. the figures, madam president, are well known: over a billion citizens, a contribution of over 25% of world gross domestic product and, with the caribbean countries, almost a third of the countries that make up the united nations. it is also well known, although these figures show a certain decline, that the european union is the main donor of development aid, the main investor in the region and the second largest trading partner, the first in mercosur and chile. but more important than the figures, we understand that for the european union latin america is more than a market and therefore we share a whole series of principles and values, which are pluralist and representative democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, freedom of expression, the rule of law, the rule of law, respect for the rules of the game and the rejection of all forms of dictatorship or authoritarianism. and this summit, mrs ashton, comes at a very particular moment in the calendar of the european union and latin america. the european union, because, once the reform process is over, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon we are a little absorbed in overcoming and contemplating our own problems, with the economic and monetary crisis. we have seen that for the first time the international monetary fund does not have to come to the aid of a latin american country, but of a member state of the european union which is participating in monetary union. when we look at the growth rates of the european union last year, we see that we had negative growth, on average, of 5%, while latin america had -1.8%, and when we look at the growth prospects for next year, we see that the european union is expected to have a growth rate of 0.7% on average and latin america of 5%. this means that the next summit will not be a north-south summit, as previous summits have been, but a summit between equals, and in that sense i think we should look back, even briefly, and be pleased with what has been achieved in recent years. but it is clear that much remains to be done and, in that sense, mrs ashton, from 2000 to 2010 the european union was able to conclude association agreements with mexico and chile and, nevertheless, the united states has concluded agreements with all of central america, agreements with colombia and peru and also with several mercosur countries. we must therefore make up for lost time quickly, seek strategic partnerships, in some way, with mexico and chile, apply the evolutionary clause in those agreements, conclude the agreements with central america, where we must introduce greater doses of generosity and, at the same time, as parliament we want to welcome the initiatives you have presented, in the sense of setting up the euro-latin american foundation and at the same time the financial investment mechanism. but this summit, mrs ashton, is not just another summit. we're going to play a very clear game here. if we continue to lose trade share with the region, and we have gone from 25 percent to just over 15 percent to the detriment of countries like china, we are going to become irrelevant. i therefore ask you, as the spanish presidency, as high representative and as vice-president of the commission, to send a clear and very well-defined message of the commitment of this new europe that we are building with our old friends in latin america.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i firmly believe that we must see latin america as a trade partner of enormous importance. we believe that negotiations should be reopened for the eu-mercosur agreement, an agreement which affects 700 million people and which will be the most ambitious bi-regional agreement in the world. we also believe that the negotiations on the european union-central america agreement must be concluded before the madrid summit in may. we must also look more closely at the association agreements with mexico and chile, which have been a real success. we must also welcome the conclusion of the free trade agreement with colombia, which will be very beneficial both for europe and for the latin american country. we believe that it is now the task of parliament to ratify these agreements in due course and to ensure that no andean community country willing to agree is excluded. we also believe, of course, that free trade agreements can and should also be a useful tool for promoting the development of the rights and freedoms of citizens. finally, we believe that the way forward is to deepen the european union's agreements with the various countries and regional groups on the one hand and to encourage interregional integration agreements within latin america itself on the other.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mrs ashton, first of all, let me congratulate mr salafranca on the successful completion of his report. you know that the may summit is a great opportunity to boost relations between the two sides. the spanish presidency must be congratulated on the work it has done in this respect. however, i think that what is at stake is that, after this presidency, the relationship will continue to be boosted and strengthened. and you have a lot to do in that, mrs ashton, because there is no other region on the planet that has greater historical, cultural and institutional affinity with europe than latin america. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this report, which i think my group has contributed satisfactorily to, is a good message to the madrid summit in may, and i hope that it will contribute to the outcome of the summit and to the need to make progress in the strategic relationship between the european union and latin america and the caribbean. we are of course in favour of the adoption of the investment mechanism in latin america and the creation of the eurolat foundation on the occasion of this summit. we are also aware of the difficulties encountered in recent years, but we hope that the negotiations with mercosur will be given a definitive impetus in madrid. we also welcome the significant progress made in the conclusion of the negotiations on the multiparty agreement with peru and colombia and we hope that a formula can be worked out in due course, a successful and intelligent formula which will allow the desired incorporation of ecuador and that we will also leave the doors open, always open, for bolivia. finally, how can we fail to celebrate the very likely and successful conclusion of the central american agreement and the already accepted incorporation of panama into that agreement and those negotiations? i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that all this must be seen in the context of what the socialist and democratic group considers to be the basic socio-political philosophy in this area. that is, support for the diverse integration processes in latin america, the demand for respect for human rights and an inclusive and development approach, always focusing on maintaining channels of dialogue despite any difficulties that may arise and deepening links with our strategic partners to achieve progress in these objectives.
madam president, i too would like to add my congratulations to mr salafranca. it seems to me a very important report. i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are millions of reasons why we should consider latin america as a continent of great importance for europe: there are millions of europeans living in latin america, there are millions of latin americans who have come to our countries, to europe, who have found in france, germany, sweden, spain, countries of reception, countries of asylum for the sufferings of their peoples. ladies and gentlemen, latin america is very important to the european union and that is why i am very pleased that in the coming months, perhaps largely as a result of the work of mrs ashton and also of the spanish presidency, it will be possible to reach four very important agreements with colombia, peru, mercosur and central america. this will be very important for the european union and, above all, for latin america. but latin america, ladies and gentlemen, must be helped. these are countries with weak states, with public services that are still very weak because they have very low taxation, they have still very imperfect democracies, there are problems with human rights. we must help the latin american peoples. we must always keep that vision in mind. and i would like to give you, mrs ashton, two messages or two recommendations which i think are very important: if you want to work in latin america, you must also count on european companies. our foreign policy, mrs ashton, must also be guided by the very strong economic presence of our large companies in latin america, which can do much for the development of those countries with a culture of social responsibility within those countries and with a commitment to the development of those countries. and finally, we need to make a global alliance with latin america to work together in the world, in world governance. let's join them to be stronger.
madam president, i would also like to take the opportunity of this debate to point out a very worrying issue, a situation which we have known for a few days and which has to do with colombia. the direct involvement of the colombian state security services in the persecution, fabrication of false testimony and criminalization of members of the opposition has been discovered. we learned firsthand from senator piedad córdoba. it's part of the dossier that the colombian security service is processing on your case. it is known from this information that the colombian government, or at least this body, is trying to create artificial links between this person and the guerrilla groups, namely the farc, and, more seriously still - and this is a direct question for mrs ashton - in the operation called 'operation europe' there is reference to the expressed intention to pursue, clearly attack and discredit human rights authorities in europe, including the subcommittee on human rights of the european parliament. i think this is serious, very serious, it calls for an explanation from the colombian government and, in the context of this report, i think it is very pertinent that we can find out exactly what is true and whether the colombian authorities really intend to do anything to remedy it.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to begin – as honourable members have done – by again congratulating mr salafranca for the excellent report and also – as he has done and as others have done – to thank the spanish presidency for the work that they too have undertaken in, not only pulling together the work for the summit, but all of the work that they have done to support the initiatives that have been undertaken. the forthcoming summit is an important one. it enables us to reinforce that relationship that honourable members have talked about. we will also be holding a foreign ministers’ meeting alongside the summit, which is particularly important to me. i hope we will be able to use that occasion to deepen the relationship with a number of states who will be present at the time. a number of honourable members also talked about the importance of trade and the role of european businesses, with which i am in complete agreement. we are the biggest investor in that region. i was particularly pleased that colleagues talked about the role of innovation, which i think is especially important too. of course a huge emphasis, as i would expect, was placed on human rights – the importance of making sure that is clearly part of all the dynamic relationships that we have and encompasses our work. honourable members talked about the particular point made in the report about feminicide and, of course, indigenous people. the commission has always defended the rights of indigenous people and will continue to monitor the projects that were being described. on colombia in particular, i am very well aware of the views, not only within this house but of course with the european tuc and the international tuc, with which i have had links in my previous role. we are continuing to follow the situation very closely. we have taken note of the significant progress that has been made. within the trade agreement, colleagues will see the importance of the robust human rights clause and the commitments that are made within that agreement, which i hope – as we monitor those – will actually go some way to alleviating the concerns, but certainly will be part of our continuing relationship with colombia. i also agree about the importance of the role that we play with these countries in broader international questions. brazil and iran were specific examples given. i have been discussion with celso amorim, the foreign minister of brazil, precisely on that question and we continue to stay in touch about its importance. the falklands islands were raised. member states have ratified the un convention on the law of the sea. the falkland islands is an associated territory to the union and the rule of law would apply. climate change is also a very important issue. we should remember that we have a key dialogue to have with this region. finally, i was also very pleased that erasmus and the importance of educational programmes in that context were mentioned. to end – again, my congratulations go to mr salafranca.
the rapporteur. - mr president, thank you to all the members for their speeches. i would like to tell you, mrs ashton, that the fundamental element that will move these relations in the coming years will be the mobilization of political will. it was political reasons that led to the ministerial dialogue in san josé in 1985; it was political reasons that led to the institutionalization of the dialogue with the rio group in 1990; and it was political reasons that led to the overcoming of the summit mechanism. i would like to answer one of my colleagues, mr kožušník, that we are indeed a community of values, and i would like to recall that, precisely at the last part-session, we adopted an important resolution on cuba in which we called for the immediate and unconditional release of political prisoners. and i take this opportunity to ask mrs ashton to intercede for a dissident, marta beatriz roque, who is on sick leave, sick, who has just obtained spanish nationality in a cause promoted by a former colleague of ours in parliament, fernando fernández martín, so that she can come to spain and be treated. but we have to move from words to deeds. and that step from words to deeds where it manifests is in the partnership agreements. i think, mrs ashton, that you have negotiated very well the agreements with colombia and peru. and i think that the human rights situation, although still worrying in colombia, has improved substantially and i think that the colombian people are a people who are crying out for peace and who definitely deserve this agreement. and i also sincerely believe that the majority of this parliament is in favour of that agreement. mrs ashton, we must give the central americans some room to negotiate. we account for 25% of their exports and they account for 2% of ours. we must be generous and relaunch the agreement with mercosur, as you have said. i believe, mr president, that the european union is in a situation of economic decline on the one hand and of strengthening with the presence of the high representative on the other. i think we must therefore expect it to make a major show of political will at the madrid summit and to continue to place relations with latin america high on the european union's agenda of priorities.
the following is the recommendation for second reading by mr jean lambert, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european asylum support office (16626/2/2009 c7-0049/2010 2009/0027 (cod)) (a7-0118/2010).
i'm closing the debate. i will not do so, however, without saying with great emotion that it is not a neutral fact for me that this debate has been chaired by a man who for 14 years of his life enjoyed the right of asylum with the generosity and hospitality of the governments and peoples of france, austria and belgium, to whom i pay tribute with gratitude, because gratitude does not prescribe, even though that was more than 40 years ago. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the part-session of the first week of may. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by evgeni kirilov, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund, as regards the simplification of certain requirements and certain provisions relating to financial management (com ((2009) 0384 c7-0003/2010 2009/0107co ((d)) (a7-0055/2010). mr kirilov, the rapporteur, was unable to attend because of the situation in air transport. i have the floor, as mr kirilov's substitute, mrs krehl.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, thank you for the enthusiastic debate of those who have come to the chamber from far and near. i am grateful to have seen the great support for cohesion policy here and the recognition that it can help the regions and thus the people in the regions - our regions. the czech colleague referred to a saying: 'he who helps quickly helps twice as much'. i would say that this is a european insight. this is the conclusion that has been followed in this initiative despite all the difficulties and hoppalas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. the control instruments and facilities are in place at local and national level. that's the idea of shared management. we are also subject to other regulations, such as those relating to public procurement and state aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as far as the extension of the n+3 regulation is concerned, i think we should be very restrictive. we should be careful not to allow this to become a matter of complacency, so that people do not think that they can sit back a little, but that the regions should commit themselves to using the resources available. i would ask my colleague, mrs swinburne, to tell her that there is absolutely no indication that we are going in the direction she is afraid of - provided the budget is adequate - that we can take wales into account in the future, as we will all other regions, in accordance with the regional resources available. i therefore think it is a little bit too early to use the structural funds to impose sanctions in difficult times, which are apparently not effective in this way. thank you again for your broad support. i would also like to thank the staff of the regional directorate-general, who have worked very hard here.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the part-session of the first week of may. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on specific measures for agricultural markets, by mr paolo de castro, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0036/2010 - b7-0208/2010). mr de castro is not present, so mr le foll has the floor.
member of the commission. - mr president, i think that the debate we have just had shows us how much we must learn from this milk crisis, and as mr le foll also said at the beginning of his speech, we should consider the establishment of market regulation mechanisms within the framework of the common agricultural policy after 2013. i sincerely believe that the common agricultural policy, while taking account of the diversity of european agriculture, must be able, in the context of the common objectives which we have at european level, to propose measures which will enable us to fulfil the role assigned to the cap in the framework of the lisbon treaty, namely to guarantee the stability of farmers' incomes and to ensure a good supply of markets. the future cap instruments must therefore be able to achieve these objectives, among others. of course, there are other goals, but these are the main ones we should consider. the measures to regulate markets, which will enable us to avoid or intervene in situations of price and market volatility, will be the subject of our concerns and the proposals that the commission will make in the context of the common agricultural policy after 2013. i can assure you we're working on it. i am firmly convinced and aware that, alongside the direct aids which we must maintain, while adapting the criteria for their distribution, market management mechanisms must be able to play a role. of course, the market must be able to function. we must let the market function when it can function, but i also agree with mr dantin when he says that the specific nature of the agricultural sector justifies public intervention. of course, it must be timely and aim at correcting the way the market works and making it work. it is in this spirit that we will make proposals for the common agricultural policy after 2013. i understand that other sectors are experiencing difficulties alongside the dairy sector. the fruit and vegetable sector is also often subject to strong fluctuations in the market: variations in prices and quantities marketed, quantities sold. this sector underwent a reform a few years ago. we will also learn from the implementation of this reform which gives producers more negotiating power within the producer organisation. i think that at this level too, it is possible to draw some lessons that we can apply in other sectors. i believe that in addition to public intervention, producers must also be given the opportunity to negotiate contracts better and thus to negotiate prices better, while ensuring a certain stability of the production placed on the market through private contracts. so beyond government intervention, i think we can find other ways that will allow the market to function properly, while giving the public authorities the power to intervene when the market cannot do its job, because agriculture must not only supply the market, but also continue to produce public goods. we're in agreement on that. so if agriculture is to be able to perform all its functions, it will need help. as regards food chain issues, in particular the negotiating powers for a better distribution of added value, work was carried out by the european parliament, the commission made a communication and there were discussions in the council. on the basis of all this, i think we will make proposals to find mechanisms which will enable producers to negotiate their margins better. i think i have covered pretty much all the speeches and all the issues that have been raised. i thank you again for the opportunity to speak. the debate is just beginning. i have launched a public debate before making proposals on the reform of the common agricultural policy after 2013. i think that as a result of this debate and the work that is going on in parliament, we will be able by the autumn, when i come back with a commission communication on the future of the cap, to make proposals that will give farmers more confidence in their work, in the farmers we need, not only in what they supply to the market, but also in what they achieve on their land.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next sitting will be held tomorrow, 21 april. the debate will be held from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. i don't know if you all know that tomorrow's sitting will be adjourned at 7 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 11.25 p.m. )
the rapporteur. - mr president, we are here today in the face of an important exercise for the liquidation of the 7th, 8th and 9th european development funds and the part corresponding to 2008 of the 10th european development fund, at a critical time, too, when important changes are taking place at institutional level and also when various global catastrophes have highlighted the growing importance of european aid and the need for it to be coordinated, effective and, above all, also transparent so that all citizens can continue to maintain their support and positive view of this aid. we are also at an institutional juncture where, with the implementation of the lisbon treaty and the creation of the post of high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the european external action service, a double opportunity is presented: on the one hand, the possibility of substantially improving the implementation and effectiveness of our external aid, but on the other hand, also some big questions, because we are concerned about the high risk that the increasing and difficult effectiveness we are achieving together with the court of auditors and the commission for european development aid could be undermined by a new reorganisation, the ambiguity of decision-making and the chain of responsibility and, above all, by fragmented management. we therefore need more assurance from the commission to avoid such lapses and therefore we need clarity and concrete action as soon as possible on what the new system will look like and how it will affect development aid. firstly, in connection with the current year, i would like to stress the need to incorporate fully - and this is the demand, i repeat once again - the european development fund in the budget in order to strengthen its coherence, transparency, effectiveness and control mechanism. we therefore 'stress' that the commission, together with parliament, should firmly maintain this demand for the next financial perspective. on the other hand, it is also important to strengthen joint programming to achieve greater concentration, coordination and vision in the work. and we therefore need to concentrate the 10th european development fund on a limited number of sectors. but, on the one hand, avoiding the harmful effects of proliferation - but, watch out, watch out, without undermining the capacity and effectiveness of the ngos on the ground, which are effective - is important, it is a complex exercise of squaring the circle, but we hope that, together with the commission, we can carry it forward. we are also pleased that the declaration of assurance has been positive, except for the corresponding commission's estimates of expenditure. there are no significant errors in the underlying operations, although we are still looking at and therefore needing to improve some important non-quantifiable error ratios, both in commitments relating to budget support and in payments. we are also very concerned that, once again, the court of auditors has not been able to access important documentation on payments representing 6.7% of the annual expenditure on cooperation with international organisations. we need a definitive method and an ad hoc timetable to ensure that the information and documentation of this joint funding is not undermined by this lack of transparency. we also consider that the financial implementation has been satisfactory, as the 7th european development fund has been closed and its balance transferred to the 9th; we also welcome the rapid implementation of the 10th european development fund as of 1 july 2008; and we hope that the commission's efforts will culminate in the settlement of the remaining old and outstanding payments. resources are another important point. we are also concerned, although there has been some discussion, that the resources of the 9th and 10th european development funds, which are managed by the eib, are not covered by the statement of assurance and should therefore be the subject of a regular report by the eib.
opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, i would ask you to treat the first part of this as a point of order only, because i would like to know, before the end of this debate, whether parliament has invited both the court of auditors and the council to this debate, and i would like to know or have the documentation. and also whether last year - although mrs gräßle said that the swedish presidency was here - whether the council was present at the debate on discharge. and now i would like you to set the counter for my speech on the management approval of transport. we would first of all like to emphasize the satisfaction we have with the high utilization rates recorded by the committee in respect of the commitment and payment appropriations for the transeuropean networks, which have reached almost 100% in both areas. we certainly need the member states to ensure adequate funding from their national budgets, and yet i would like to remind you once again that in this parliament we have always supported a higher level of funding for the networks and that we hope that the opportunity of the review of the networks in 2010 will be an opportunity to assess whether this expenditure has been sufficient and effective. in any case, his control has been. we also express our satisfaction with the regularity and legality of the annual accounts of the transeuropean transport network executive agency, although we are concerned about the delays in recruiting staff, but we have been informed by the commission's directorate-general for mobility and transport that they will be updated. we are concerned, however, about the low rate of utilization of payment appropriations for transport safety, even lower in the marco polo programme, which has the support of parliament, and also about the exceptionally low rate of utilization of appropriations for passenger rights. we are also concerned, because of the scale of the project, about the insufficient use of payment appropriations in galileo and we regret the complete absence of data on tourism. we hope that this will be remedied in the new institutional framework.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to stress once more the commission’s commitment to pursuing the progress we have made over the last years in order to further improve the quality of spending. i will of course look carefully at the discharge decisions that the european parliament will adopt in two weeks’ time, and the commission will ensure appropriate follow-up. i would also like to thank you for a very good discussion today. i think that many good ideas were expressed during the discussion, and i would like to look at a few of them. firstly, regarding national management declarations, an issue raised by bart staes and other members, i would just remind you that, together with commissioner lewandowski, we sent a letter to the committee on budgetary control saying that we will make a proposal regarding national management declarations in the forthcoming revision of the financial regulation. i think that, together with proposals on simplification and with the introduction of the concept of tolerable risk of error, this will allow significant improvements in the situation with the management of structural funds. mr søndergaard was very concerned about this. the issue of the role of internal audits and internal controls was raised by mrs herczog. i fully share her view on this and would just say that next week we will discuss the audit strategy for 2010-12 and will pay much more attention to the improvement of internal control systems in the commission. i also share the views expressed by mr audy and some other honourable members about the discharge procedure. i think that we have to launch a discussion on how to improve the discharge procedure in order to ensure that most of the discharge results are implemented as fast as possible. it is now 2010 and we are discussing the discharge for 2008, as it was impossible to implement anything during 2009. i think that a thorough discussion involving stakeholders and the court of auditors is needed. i fully share your views and the views of other members who talked about this issue. i also think that it is very important to address the issue of the efficiency of the spending of eu funds. in our general audit strategy we pay great attention to the improvement of auditing in terms of also auditing the efficiency of eu spending. i think that this will give us results in the future. on turkey, the commission will follow up the recommendations to improve the objectives and the monitoring of progress. for all areas of spending we have to improve the quality of spending, from objective setting to impact evaluation. the results achieved so far demonstrate that the european union is pursuing its efforts to improve the way that taxpayers’ money is spent and adds value to our citizens. this progress is also the result of your action as the discharge authority, always being attentive to the way the eu budget is used, critical when it is not satisfactory, but also supportive when progress is made. this is an important message to convey to citizens of the eu. therefore, let me conclude by expressing my special thanks to the european parliament for its support for the commission’s efforts towards better financial management of the european union’s budget.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the destruction of the civilian population. i would also like to express my appreciation, in fairness, to the spanish presidency for the efforts it is making in this discharge exercise, in particular the offer to open the debate on renewing the interinstitutional agreement with the council, since the current one has clearly been obsolete for some time. but i also wish to express my opposition to the improvisation of the procedure in the house, which i had obviously not thought of formally inviting either the court of auditors or the council until today at nine o'clock in the morning. to criticize the absence of those whom we have not even bothered to invite seems to me to be ridiculous and in bad faith. i believe that if we are to be respected and to live up to our new responsibilities, our interinstitutional procedures must be more rigorous and serious and less opportunistic. in conclusion, i would just like to thank my colleagues, and in particular mrs hohlmeier, for the excellent cooperation they have shown and express my satisfaction at the significant improvements in the effective and transparent implementation of european development aid. of the many positive actions that transcend the work of the european union, citizens distinguish european development aid with a high positive appreciation and even demand greater visibility and extension, but they also worry if it is not clear why we help certain governments through budget support, if the reasons are not explained or sufficiently guaranteed and strict control in case the circumstances vary by coups d'état, corruption scandals, human rights violations or setbacks on the road to democracy or gender equality. the significant progress we have seen and have noted justifies our approval of the management of the 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds, but we will have to continue to improve. this european parliament will be particularly vigilant to ensure that the new interinstitutional system after lisbon and the framework of the foreign service do not jeopardise the improvements achieved, so that citizens continue to feel proud of european development aid.
mr president, i think we have not voted on the discharge for the european economic and social committee. perhaps i am mistaken, but i think we have gone straight to the committee of the regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the simpson report on transportable pressure equipment, even though our amendment was not adopted.
in writing. − i voted yes to the report. the important thing for us, however, has been that our two aims of ‘linking costs for security screening and scanning with liberalised groundhandling services’ and ‘intermodal fair treatment of financing security measures’ were both rejected by the epp and alde (rcv).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report even though our amendment was not adopted.
in writing. − i voted against this report because we, the verts/ale group, tabled six amendments and all were rejected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the szájer report on power of legislative delegation and speroni report on ransdorf’s immunity. it was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the van dalen report on maritime transport strategy up to 2018, although our amendment on including maritime transport in the ets was rejected by large majority (roll-call vote).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, together with my group.
in writing. - my vote for this owninitiative report of parliament was positive because of the importance of the digital agenda in strengthening european technological leadership. ict is a key factor for growth in this time of economic recovery, but also for sustainable growth and the fight against social exclusion. the report supports the axes identified in the ministerial declaration on the digital agenda adopted at the informal telecommunications council in granada on 18 and 19 april. parliament reiterated the need for the eu to have a strong, fast and efficient infrastructure, and encouraged the adoption of measures to achieve full broadband coverage for all citizens. for the digital revolution to be successful, all citizens must participate in it. but for this success to be real, aspects such as internet security cannot be ignored. the report adopted therefore not only aims to equip all citizens with digital skills, but also stresses the need to strengthen internet security and respect for citizens' rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution given the fact that no damaging modifications were included.
in writing. − we followed the rapporteur, staes, in this vote, even though we lost one key amendment, number 22, on the transparency of the use of public funds, defended by the same rapporteur.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this text because, within the strategic partnership objective, it calls for the conclusion of subregional association agreements with central america, peru-colombia and mercosur, despite the coup d'état in honduras and the illegitimate government of porfirio lobo that has resulted from it. the eu cannot treat coup leaders and elected officials equally. in addition, in the objective of creating a euro-latin american area of global interregional partnership, the partnership in trade terms does not take into account asymmetries within and between regions. the eu-peru-colombia association agreement in its current form is similar to a free trade agreement and will not benefit the peoples of europe or latin america. i also do not agree with the possibility of opening a political dialogue on a triangular basis (such as eu-latin america-united states). there are already multilateral bodies such as the united nations for this type of dialogue. it also includes the creation of the foundation europe-latin america and the caribbean. i would not be opposed to this figure unless the rapporteur proposes that public-private capital should be established, a clear gateway to multinationals.
in writing. − i abstained on the final vote on this report. though the report is by no means anything we could accept as a good contribution to the forthcoming eu-latin america summit in madrid, we managed to keep or vote into the text some important aspects. the green highlights in the middle of a disappointing report are: the paragraph concerning the ruling by the inter-american court of human rights on feminicides (the case of campo algodonero in mexico) was kept in the text, with 359 votes in favour, 235 against and 17 abstentions; we succeeded in getting into the text that the european investment facility should in particular be used for projects contributing to combating climate change, such as local public transport, electric vehicles and the yasuni-itt project in ecuador (‘keep the oil underground’). all in all, 10 out of the 16 green/efa amendments were adopted. unfortunately, we lost all amendments which referred sceptically to the recently concluded free trade agreements and the association agreements under negotiation, and which warn against the risks of weakening the existing fragile regional integration efforts. finally, our amendment asking for the phasing-out of mega-energy projects that heavily damage the environment was rejected, too.
in writing. - as some of the expressions in paragraph 34, introduced by the opinion of the committee on development, are so ambiguous that they could be interpreted as a certain complacency with a fact that can be rejected such as abortion, the spanish delegation of the ppe has asked the epp group to vote separately on this paragraph, to make it perfectly clear that it is opposed to any initiative aimed at infringing the inalienable rights of the most defenceless.
in writing. − the resolution was carried with a large majority. i abstained because of the wording in paragraph 6 on roma people justifying canada’s restrictive visa policy against bulgaria, romania and the czech republic. however, the verts/ale group was successful in getting the following in the resolution regarding bluefin tuna and cites: ‘expresses its disappointment about the position of the canadian government at the most recent conference of cites parties with regard to the extension of cites appendix 1 for bluefin tuna’.
in writing. - i voted against this joint resolution by alde, sd, ppe and ecr because its text supports the possibility of reaching an agreement between the 27 member states and the united states on the transfer of banking data under the pretext of the fight against terrorism. under current conditions, the us authorities would have access to a large amount of private data of millions of european citizens. i consider the us demand unacceptable and a violation of the freedoms and rights of european citizens. with their proposal, the most conservative forces intend to hand us over to american interests, without regard for the security or privacy of citizens. the european parliament cannot allow the civil rights and freedoms of europeans to be violated under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.
in writing. − i abstained on the vote on the swift resolution (tftp). it was adopted, however, by a very large majority (no roll-call vote). our group abstained because our key amendments were rejected, namely amendment 8 asking for data transfer to be subject to judicial authorisation, and amendment 9 asking for the mutual legal assistance agreement (mlaa) to be used for tracking finance terrorist programme (tftp) purposes. other important verts/ale amendments were also rejected: eu definition of terrorism instead of the us one, ban on further transfer to third countries or bodies and limits to data retention period. the resolution can be seen nevertheless as a quite strong message in view of the eu-us negotiations for a new tftp agreement after the rejection (assent procedure) last february of the former one even though in our view the text adopted today is a step backwards in comparison with the parliament resolution adopted last september.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. the pnr resolution was adopted by a very large majority and with our support. it calls for a postponement of the vote on the assent on the passenger name record (pnr) agreements with the us, canada and australia until the strongest guarantees have been obtained on data protection, period of retention, limitations to the purpose, parliamentary scrutiny, judicial control, right of access and redress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the final text. the joint motion for resolution was adopted with only one small positive addition (encouraging industrial reconversion in areas where cyanide mining is banned). the attempts to change the call for ‘initiating a comprehensive ban’ to just doing an impact assessment was rejected by roll-call vote (161/416), and so was the amendment to merely ‘consider’ a ban (roll-call vote: 246/337). our joint amendment with the s&d and gue/ngl groups to ‘propose a ban’ with a date when it should be effective was defeated (roll-call vote: 274/309). the final resolution was adopted with 524/54/13 votes (the alde group abstaining, as the change to the impact assessment was not adopted).
rilke was the favourite poet of our colleague dimitris tsatsos, who died a few days ago, and it was in this very house, a long time ago, on 19 november 1997, that dimitris tsatsos and i had the honour of presenting the report on the treaty of amsterdam to this parliament. and it was precisely in that report on the treaty of amsterdam that we proposed that any revision of the treaties should therefore be prepared in advance by a convention. we call this the community method, and it is this method of the convention that has been used to prepare the charter of fundamental rights and, above all, the constitutional treaty. i would like to recall dimitris tsatsos today when we are about to carry out the first reform of the treaty of lisbon, which, after all, mr president, is the constitutional treaty we have fought so hard to achieve. the first reform, which will affect the amendment of protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon, is motivated by an anomaly, because at the time of the elections to this parliament, in june last year, the treaty of lisbon had not yet entered into force, because of the visits that we all know. the last parliamentary elections were therefore held with the treaty of nice in force, and the treaty of nice provides for 736 members, compared with the 751 provided for in the treaty of lisbon. to complicate matters further, mr president, the 1976 act provides that members' terms of office are five years. this means that we cannot simply apply the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, the 751 because a given country loses, with lisbon, three elected members who cannot therefore leave parliament during this term. that is why, mr president, protocol no 36 must be amended to allow the lisbon agreements to enter into force and that during this parliamentary term, during the period 2009-2014, when the amendment to protocol no 36 enters into force, this house will have, exceptionally, 754 members. the european council has therefore written to you, mr president, asking you, in accordance with article 48 (2) of the treaty, to give parliament a ruling on two questions. firstly, is a convention necessary to prepare the amendment of protocol (no 36)? and the second question is: can the heads of government convene the intergovernmental conference to amend protocol (no 36)? the two issues are linked, although they are two separate reports. i shall begin by calling the intergovernmental conference. as i said before, this is the political result of the application of the treaty of lisbon, and it is a transitional and exceptional solution which will only take place during this parliamentary term. the intergovernmental conference will therefore stick to something that has already been agreed: how those 18 meps are distributed among the 12 countries. so there is no debate, mr president. i believe that the intergovernmental conference can be convened very quickly and resolved even in the course of a morning, since the political decision has already been taken. i shall therefore ask for the intergovernmental conference to be held and i shall say that i do not think it is necessary to have a convention on a subject which has already been settled. we are in favour of the opening of the intergovernmental conference; we are against the convening of a convention.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to begin by saying that this is not a minor decision we are taking on this occasion. we are, first of all, reforming the treaty. for the first time since it came into force, we are proposing a reform of the treaty, and this is no small thing. but secondly, what we are doing is to give back and confirm, to make possible the exercise of this right by 18 members who would have had the right to be members if the treaty had been adopted before the elections and by 12 countries which have the right to put their situation back together in this parliament, because they have agreed with the whole of the union to be more represented than they are. it is only that, but it is an important question. the council, with its good judgment, asks us: is it necessary to organize a convention in order to ratify an agreement by all the countries of the union? and what parliament is telling you is that it is not really necessary. this time it's not necessary. and it therefore mandates the council to convene an intergovernmental conference so that the treaty can be reformed, thereby opening the way for the 27 countries to ratify it, for the 18 members to come here and for the 12 countries to be fully represented. this is what we're trying to do, but there's been a problem. i would like to begin by acknowledging that we have had a difficulty in determining whether those who are to come must be directly elected for these elections or can be elected in another way. this problem which has arisen and which must be addressed and presented in its reality, i think has been solved in a satisfactory way. i would like to thank not only the rapporteur, mr méndez de vigo, but also mr duff, for the agreement we have reached between the three groups, which i think is very important. what we are saying is: yes, let the treaty be reformed, let it be done without a convention, so that the right to confirmation can be introduced. but at the same time parliament reminds the national parliaments that they must send directly elected members to the european parliament and that it is our vocation to carry out, within parliament itself, a review of the european electoral system in order to give the european electoral model a system of unity, of supranationality, in the way of electing members. these two considerations have brought about a balance which i am very pleased about and which allows us to restart this dossier.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i just wanted to add that i agree with those speakers who have expressed the importance of resolving this outstanding issue of the lisbon treaty, namely the 18 members who are not here because the last elections were held shortly before the treaty of lisbon came into force. the reform of protocol 36 is therefore worthwhile. i also agree with those who have expressed the view that this must be done as soon as possible, that the absence in this house of 18 members representing citizens from 12 countries of the union must be covered as soon as possible. that is why i am in the final analysis in agreement with mr méndez de vigo, who proposes that there should be no need for a convention, that the intergovernmental conference should be convened as soon as possible, that parliamentary ratification should be carried out as soon as possible in the 27 member states, and that we should therefore be able to see in this parliament as soon as possible the 18 members who should have been here since the beginning of this parliamentary term.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i think that this debate has clearly demonstrated that we are trying to resolve an exceptional situation, that we are looking for a practical solution and that this is the solution for the transition. therefore i very much welcome the pragmatic approach of mr méndez de vigo and the report which he prepared, and, as i can gather from the debate, it is also getting very strong support here in the plenary. i think it is very clear that our common goal is to have 18 new meps as soon as possible. coming back to the commission’s position, i think we have been asked very straightforward questions about how this change should be administered and through which instrument. the commission has agreed very clearly to the igc because of the scope and nature of the change which will be discussed. as regards the modalities of how the additional meps are chosen, this would be, i am sure, raised within the framework of an intergovernmental conference, but let me add: when the european council was considering this matter, i think that it was quite clear that the council was looking to seek a balance, a balance between the natural desirability that the additional meps are chosen in a way as close as possible to the european parliament elections themselves and the need to respect national constitutional arrangements; that is the origin of the three options to cover the realities of today’s situation which of course will be regularised at the next elections. to conclude let me also welcome the internal reflections within the european parliament about possible future changes to the european elections, but i think that we have to underline that these are, and should remain, different issues. today we are discussing how to get 18 additional meps into the european parliament. next time we will be discussing possible changes to the electoral vote.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. that was a mandate which was already in the treaties of rome and, therefore, the coordinators - and i want to take this opportunity to express my thanks to all of them, but especially to mr jauregui and mr duff - we have agreed on an amendment 2 which will be voted on tomorrow, and i hope that this house will support it, precisely so that this issue, this question of the uniform electoral procedure for elections to the european parliament, can be resolved in the near future. i think that would eliminate this kind of questioning. in his speech, mr trzaskowski spoke of the need for representativeness in this house, and this is a factor which most of the speakers, including vice-president šefčovič, have stressed. i agree, and we say so in paragraph 1 of the report, that the 18 should be included as a group, because otherwise we would lose our representativeness. and in order for them to come together, to fulfil that act of political justice which is the lisbon agreement, ladies and gentlemen, we must be pragmatic, because a transitional and exceptional situation also requires transitional and exceptional situations or solutions. and that is why, i make no secret of it, i do not like the possibility of having members in this house who did not come from the 2009 elections - i say that very clearly in paragraph 2 - but if i have to choose between that and not having the 18 or seeking a pragmatic solution and having the 18 and therefore complying with the lisbon agreement, i ask this house, already in the report, to opt for that solution; a transitional, pragmatic solution, but above all, madam president, a just one. thank you all very much for your collaboration and for the interesting contributions you have made to this work.
i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the way in which the council has dealt with the matter, and that it is very pleased that the council has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission is able to deal with the matter. i would also like to address a special message to the prime minister, mr papandreou, and encourage him in his firmness and political courage, for all the energy he is devoting to saving the future of the country. in the months and years to come, we expect the european union to accompany as far as possible the necessary reform processes. we cannot remain in a mere role of control. the european union must be a party to the reform and must accompany it. the success of the process of transformation must be a common success for all in a united europe, which calls for a common destiny. and to do that, we must ensure that the european political and fiscal instruments are properly mobilised, providing all possible help and assistance at this difficult stage. and beyond the greek crisis, i think we can conclude that the last few weeks have been very enlightening. we must use all that we have learned to strengthen economic governance and build a european union that is not just monetary but truly economic. what was inconceivable in the days of jacques delors has now become inevitable and we must meet the demands of the moment. to achieve all these ambitious goals, we must first learn to work together. the stability and growth pact is one of the aspects which has most demonstrated the need to coordinate our economic policies. economic policy coordination must be active and effective, geared towards processes of sustainable and strong growth, shared by all and guaranteeing jobs. we hope that the european commission will soon make bold proposals in this respect that go beyond a single repressive logic. we must learn to build and grow together and strong. i hope, mr president barroso, that you will understand the urgent need to make the most of the role that the commission can play at this stage. secondly, we must have the necessary mechanisms to deal with a crisis. it is high time that the council approved the establishment of a european financial stability mechanism, a proposal which was already approved by the prime ministers and leaders of the european socialist party last march. we must condemn the aggressive and speculative attitude of some financial players, but we must also understand that we have designed a monetary system which is insufficient in times of crisis. thirdly, we must develop a new concept of european solidarity. either we move towards a common destiny, or we must resign ourselves to succumbing to the negative dynamics of national egos and destructive competition among ourselves. we cannot at the same time say that we want to live together and, in practice, act each one on his own. the present crisis is a litmus test which must be understood in all its dimensions. fourthly, we must give the financial sphere the dimension it needs. the coming weeks and months will be an opportunity for parliament to take a position on a number of very important legislative proposals, such as hedge funds or financial supervision. i call on all the institutions to support us in this responsible approach, to ensure that europe quickly establishes a sound regulatory and supervisory system. we hope that this joint effort will also lead to the creation of a financial transaction tax, so that financial institutions will share in a fair proportion of the economic effort that each of us has had to make. greece's future will depend to a large extent on the growth of its neighbours - us - who are its main economic partners. if we are not able to meet the challenges already posed in strategy 2020, if we are not able to give substance to a common political agenda and if our economies are condemned to slow growth with few employment opportunities, we will not be able to prevent new attacks which may be even more serious and difficult to manage. the future of our continent is at stake. the future of europe depends on our intelligence, our solidarity and our determination.
i thank mr lópez garrido, who can give the message to the president of the college of commissioners. i hope that his words will continue and that we shall see a council in june which is very different from the one we saw in the spring, because his words, which i subscribe to from beginning to end, do not reassure me or remove the anguish of seeing a council which is full of delays, which is full of doubts, which sometimes even states matters which really strike fear in our hearts, such as that the objectives, the great political and numerical objectives, are not appropriate and are not even possible. i am sure that the spanish presidency will help to resolve all these uncertainties, because i am convinced that we are living in historic times in the history of europe. these are very intense times, when the great challenge of whether we want more europe or less europe is being put on the table. that is the aim of the europe 2020 strategy. in 10 years, will we be more united or less divided? will those who believe that we must work together to solve economic and social problems have won or will those who are once again caught up in nationalism and breaking even the fundamental elements that have been built up over these 40 years? will we be more supportive? will we be willing to take on the goals of solidarity among ourselves, of sharing more equitably, of building more wealth and sharing it more equitably, or will we leave it all in the hands of the markets? i am not, as some colleagues have said, a believer that this has come about because there has been too much europe, too much regulation, or too much social justice. on the contrary, it is the lack of europe, the lack of regulation that has brought us the crisis. i would therefore ask you, mr lópez garrido, to do two things: to maintain the objectives of fighting poverty and those in favour of higher education, which are in the commission's text but not in the council's text, and to associate parliament with the voice of the citizens so that the citizens' agenda is the agenda of europe and not the agenda of the technocrats or the agenda of the so-called 'markets', which is often the agenda of the speculators.
mr president, many of the colleagues who have spoken ask why the lisbon agenda has failed and whether we should not start by analysing that failure in order to take the next steps. the problem with the lisbon agenda, in my view, is that it was in the end nothing more than an icon locked in a bubble, which has had no practical development and which, in the end, we found that on the one hand there was a theory, the lisbon agenda, to which we all referred and on the other hand there was a practice that had nothing to do with it. that is why, in my view, the europe 2020 strategy, based on that experience, must be a new agenda which can only be carried forward if there is a firm commitment - firm commitment, i insist - from all the institutions: the european political institutions and the national political institutions. that commitment must also be a verifiable, evaluated commitment, on which there is information and on which there is an immediate ability to correct when commitments are not being met, when they are being missed. so that we don't find ourselves in any situation of any boundary circumstance. either we all understand that this common project needs these instruments to be carried out, or we shall soon be in a similar situation.
i would like to say loud and clear to the citizens of europe that, for the first time, they will have a court that will guarantee their human rights, their fundamental freedoms, in the face of the european union, in the face of their own states, when they develop community law. the essential idea is that a new court, the strasbourg court, should appear to the european citizen as the guarantor of community law and that the application of community law in each state should meet these minimum guarantees. minimum guarantees which are at the heart of the european idea. minimum guarantees which are at the heart of the historical process of european construction, which is a civilizing construction based on the idea of human dignity, the dignity of persons, and which is embodied in democracy, the rule of law, the social rule of law and human rights. the treaty of lisbon has given us the opportunity for the european union to formalize the charter which, as mrs reding rightly said, is the most perfect charter of fundamental freedoms that has been drawn up in this field and obliges us to join the strasbourg court. this is what we're going to pass now. i know there are a number of technical problems, but i just want to stress the importance of the commission's having done a quick and effective job of establishing a concrete mandate that allows us to move forward in these negotiations. i would like to congratulate you, mrs reding, on your 'repeated' and rapid and effective work, as well as the spanish presidency. i would like to announce that we will be voting in favour of this parliament's report at the next partsession and i would like to ask you to follow up, to provide information and to accompany us in a complex negotiation, but one which is very important for europe.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr jauregui on the serious work he has done. the report clarifies institutional and operational aspects arising from the european union's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is now three decades since the european commission and parliament adopted resolutions calling for such accession. now, with a more complex community, with 27 states, no one is discussing membership. the convergence of these principles is the basis of the political cohesion and identity of the european union, and when these enter into crisis there are political problems as well as economic ones. to defend all human rights and fundamental freedoms under all circumstances and without hesitation is to work for the strengthening of democracy, for progress, and means to completely marginalize any expression of violence, imposition or totalitarianism. and that, let us not forget, was the first meaning of the union project. this must be our course and i ask the commission and the council to work towards it. and, mr president, my thoughts and condolences to the families of the victims in greece.
acting president of the council. - mr president, almost all the members who have spoken have expressed their support for the signing by the european union of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we're matching them. i would like to refer to the two speeches which i have heard which seem to me to show reluctance or opposition to that signature, on the understanding that it was either dangerous for the union's powers, as in the case of mr ziobro, or that it was unnecessary, as in the case of mrs morvai. i would like to refer to both of them and answer both of them specifically. as regards mr ziobro's argument, there is no problem with the strasbourg court being able to interfere with the union's powers. that's not his goal. this is also stated in the treaty of lisbon, protocol (no 8). it is clear that this does not change the powers and responsibilities of the union institutions. there's no problem with that. and, moreover, one of the issues being discussed in the working party on this subject is, alongside the question of the so-called co-defendant mechanism - that is, the union of the european union plus a member state - when there is an action before the strasbourg court against that state, the issue of the exhaustion of remedies, previously before the luxembourg court before going to the european court of human rights. that is one of the issues on which the working group is currently working at a technical level, precisely so that there can be no doubt that the european court of human rights does not fall within the competence of the union; it merely ascertains whether or not there has been a violation of the european convention for the protection of human rights. the second argument is that of mrs morvai, who says: 'i can go against a decision of an authority in my country and i can go to the european court of human rights; why do i need the european union to sign?' i think it is quite clear: the european union has powers which the member states do not have. the european union not only has powers, but has also increased them. the european union has become an institution which takes decisions through directives, regulations, decisions from a legal point of view, which may violate the european convention for the protection of human rights. and that is precisely why the european union's path towards an increasingly powerful institution makes it necessary - and why the treaty of lisbon states it this way - that just as the member states sign the european convention for the protection of human rights and submit to the jurisdiction of strasbourg, the european union must, in that logic, submit to the jurisdiction of strasbourg. on the other hand, the history of the european court of human rights and its case law has been highly positive for the rights of individuals in europe. the european convention for the protection of human rights, which is the text applied by the court, is quite old, dating from 1950, like the treaty of rome; this convention is also from rome. then it's been supplemented by some protocols. it is an old one, and yet there has been a very rich body of case law which has transformed the case law of the constitutional courts, of the supreme courts of the member states, and has constituted a kind of common doctrine which is what is essentially being established for the future in the interpretation of fundamental rights between the court of luxembourg and the court of strasbourg. we therefore believe that the european union has every reason to sign this convention. and we also believe that it will protect not only the citizens of the member states but also those citizens who come from outside the european union and have the status of foreigners, because the european convention for the protection of human rights protects anyone who is under the jurisdiction of a member state, if, in the future, under the jurisdiction of which any of the decisions taken by the european union are affected. therefore, not only nationals of member states but also non-nationals of member states will be protected by that convention if the union signs it. i am pleased to see that there is a consensus on the importance of moving forward with the mandate presented by the european commission; that there is going to be a session announced by mr jáuregui in the european parliament on this subject - and i take this opportunity to congratulate him and the other rapporteurs on this report, mrs gál and mr preda - and i would point out that the spanish presidency's intention is that this mandate, on the basis of the text sent by the commission - we understand that whoever negotiates this text with the european council - should be approved by the council of ministers, called the jha council, justice and home affairs, on 4 june next.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me start by saying how much i agree with what the spanish presidency has just given as answers to some of the questions of the parliamentarians. i will not repeat it because i would say exactly the same. permit me just to thank the parliamentarians who have intervened in a very positive way in order to underline the importance of fundamental rights, which are the basis of our union. to reinforce those fundamental rights for each single citizen can only be an advancement of what we think as being the real values of our europe. i would like to thank specifically the two rapporteurs, who have done very important work in order to bring parliament towards agreeing to the basic mandate, but the basic mandate, as has also been said in this house, is only the beginning, because we have to negotiate. these negotiations will certainly take a long time, and when we have finished the negotiations, the ratification process has to start. so, mr president, i foresee that i will have to come back very often – with pleasure, of course – to this house in order to report on how we stand, how we are advancing, what the problems are and what the solutions are. i am very confident that the parliamentarians will help us in order to achieve the common goal, which is a europe of values and of rights.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on electric vehicles.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, mr vice-president of the commission, mr tajani, as you know, european industry as a whole has been hit hard by the global economic and financial crisis and, in this context of enormous hardship for all economic sectors and also for industry, we believe that the absolute priority for europe is to recover growth and employment. today we have good news in the commission's forecast of the recovery taking place in the european union as a whole, a recovery which is still small, but a recovery after all, and a recovery which, in particular, must be linked to industrial activity. we believe that industry - and i am sure i agree with the vice-president of the commission on this, because he and i have recently spoken on this subject and he agrees with us - is and must be an irreplaceable engine of growth and recovery for the european economy. so we must bet on european industry. the european industry - i repeat - can play a role as a driving force in the economy, and to do so, firstly, the industrial fabric must be preserved in the face of the difficult economic situation we are living in, and secondly, the competitiveness of european industry must be improved. in other words, european industry must regain its leadership and competitiveness on the global market, it must be committed to innovation and the development of new technologies; in this sense, as in so many other things, it is very important that the response to these challenges be given above all from a european perspective, with a european approach. within the industrial sector, we must place particular emphasis on the sectors with the greatest potential for growth and, without a doubt, one of these is the automobile sector, with its great capacity to transfer technology to other activities, its impact on employment, its export capacity, its growth potential. it is therefore important to focus on the automotive sector, which, according to the european commission's own figures, is a sector which directly or indirectly employs 12 million workers in europe and is the main private investor in r & d & i, with eur 20 000 million a year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european car industry is not left behind. we are talking about the electric vehicle, which is one of the best examples of the innovative strategies to be considered in this sector. the spanish presidency has therefore placed the development of the electric vehicle at the top of its agenda as a preferred alternative means of transport to reduce dependence on fossil fuels derived from petroleum in the transport sector and thus move clearly and decisively to an energy-efficient and environmentally sustainable transport system. and for that we need a global strategy - that is what we think in the council - to develop technologies, including, in this case, electrical technology. the council is therefore promoting this debate on possible measures to be taken to boost the production of electric vehicles by european industry and that is why we are holding this debate at the informal council on competitiveness in san sebastian on 8 and 9 february. a really intense debate in which three main areas were identified for work: firstly, to promote a leading european market in the production of electric vehicles and their batteries; secondly, to support the adoption and acceptance of the electric vehicle as a means of transport similar to the conventional vehicle, to bring it up to that level or to try to have it at that level in the future, which it obviously does not have at the moment and will take some time to have; and thirdly, to create the conditions for a single market for electric vehicles to exist in this case too. it was therefore agreed to invite the european commission to draw up an action plan. in line with this invitation, the commission then will refer to it mr tajani has published its european strategy on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, a communication on 27 april, which discusses electrical technologies, other technological alternatives in this field and other issues. we would like to see conclusions drawn at the competitiveness council in may on the commission's communication of 27 april. that is our intention in that respect. in short, we believe that we must follow the objectives of this strategy and, within it, those of the 2010-2012 action plan, so that the broad lines of action are translated into 15 concrete actions, also proposed by the commission, to lay the foundations for the implementation of the electric vehicle.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, mr secretary of state, mr lópez garrido, as the spanish presidency mentioned in its speech, last week the commission, ladies and gentlemen, adopted a communication on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, and i had the pleasure of presenting this text as a matter of priority to the members of the committee on industry and energy during my hearing last wednesday. the communication has two main pillars: the first part concerns the improvement of the traditional combustion engine, and the second part aims to establish a roadmap to promote and facilitate the diffusion of advanced technologies in ultra-low carbon vehicles, hydrogen-fuelled, biofuel-fuelled vehicles, hybrid vehicles and 100% electric vehicles. the electric car is the subject of this evening's debate and of the resolution which this parliament is going to vote on tomorrow. those who have followed the developments in the automobile industry closely will agree with me that there is an unprecedented consensus in favour of electric vehicles. the council of ministers meeting in san sebastian under the spanish presidency, the announcement of national programmes for electric mobility and the car shows not only in europe but also in detroit and beijing were decisive moments. we now know that european car manufacturers will launch the first fully electric and plug-in hybrids on the market in 2011, while continuing to produce more up-to-date, energy-efficient conventional vehicles. more importantly, these clean cars are not only the curiosity of dealers' showrooms, but also the eager expectation of european consumers, who have clearly shifted their preferences to smaller and more environmentally friendly vehicles. i would like to briefly explain the content of the commission's strategy to the house: the strategy includes over 40 concrete actions and i take this opportunity to outline the three that have been identified by stakeholders as the key priorities that the commission must address, namely standardisation, financial incentives and research. the standardisation of electric vehicles is of key importance in order to ensure that european citizens can charge their vehicles when crossing borders; the so-called interoperability is an essential requirement for consumers to accept new technology without reservations and thus to ensure the mass market deployment of electric vehicles. the commission therefore proposes that the commission work with the european standardisation bodies, following the established standardisation process, to adopt a single solution for interoperability, address safety risks and examine an intelligent charging system for the electric charger in vehicles. the standard must take account of existing technical solutions and, of course, guarantee consumers safety and affordability. i am convinced that we must take advantage of the momentum to opt for a genuine single european solution based on our internal market principles. if we miss this opportunity, we could find ourselves in a fragmented market for many years to come, which would not only be bad for european consumers and businesses, but also unwise in the face of the many competing international initiatives. as regards financial incentives, several member states have already introduced them. in some cases the incentives are explicitly for electric vehicles, while in other cases they are linked to low co2 emissions. the commission does not intend to oblige the member states to offer incentives, but it does want to coordinate the exchange of information and propose a series of guidelines in this area in order to avoid market fragmentation. the third element is research: the commission intends to work towards european research to achieve the goal of clean and energy-efficient transport by supporting research in all those technological areas, while streamlining and simplifying the procedures for obtaining european grants. i would like to conclude by stressing the impact that this strategy will have and that it goes far beyond the automotive industry. i share the spanish presidency's position: we are here to study a strategy, which is the one contained in the europe 2020 document proposed by the commission and accepted by the council, which sees industrial and enterprise policy as the heart of the strategy to get out of the crisis and to create prosperity and development in our society in the coming years. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. i therefore believe that this action we are taking to give the automobile industry a future perspective is a laudable initiative and i welcome the words of the spanish presidency, which welcomed the commission's communication, which wants, together with parliament and the council, to study a strategy that will enable our european industry, our european business system, to develop, all of us convinced as we are that a strong market is the best instrument, as the lisbon treaty reminds us, to make a good social policy. without enterprise and industry we cannot think of defending employment, nor can we think of protecting the right to work of our fellow citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, mr secretary of state, we are faced with a debate on a subject on which, in general terms, there is a great deal of agreement, so that it is not one of those debates in which positions are taken, not radically different, but simply different. we have heard it in the speech of the secretary of state and we have heard it in the speech of the commissioner, and it is contained in the resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow in this parliament with the support of all the political groups. but that said, there are a number of problems to be solved until the electric vehicle can be fully efficient and the task we have now ahead is to focus, precisely, on seeing how we can solve those problems as soon as possible so that the electric vehicle is also incorporated into this whole big project of having a more sustainable energy consumption while being efficient. i would like to stress one of the aspects which has already been mentioned, but which is also in this resolution, namely research. there are still a number of problems, mainly related to battery efficiency and charging, and there are also problems of standardization, interoperability, etc., which have a long way to go. in order to get this way as soon as possible, i believe that it is essential, as in so many other aspects linked to energy and other issues, to make an effort in research. and that is where a huge effort is needed, from the financial point of view, both from the european and national institutions.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all, on behalf of my group, i would like to congratulate the spanish presidency on the fact that it has included the electric vehicle among its priorities and also the commission, mr tajani, for having picked up the gauntlet. because, ladies and gentlemen, the ability to enter this sector quickly with quality and standardised products will determine the future leaders of a highly competitive market. we agree, mr tajani, that the standardisation of infrastructure and loading methods is essential to success. but how are they going to speed up this standardisation so that the european union does not delay its implementation on this issue? we agree that support for r & d is essential to reduce costs and improve efficiency, as we still have a significant technological dependence on the outside world. we are also concerned about what action is to be taken at european level to promote research, especially in batteries. finally, a question to mr tajani. the commission usually refers to clean-drive vehicles in generic terms; however, electric propulsion technology is the most developed. manufacturers have a wide variety of models and will soon start marketing them. do you not think that electric vehicles could be introduced into europe much earlier than other forms of clean transport? do you think it is realistic to think that electric vehicles will be widespread in europe by the period 2015-2020?
we shall now move on to the incidental requests for the use of the floor and i shall explain the criteria i shall follow so that i am not later humiliated or provoked. we still have many items on the agenda and i shall therefore give five speeches this time and i shall do so giving preference to those of you who have not spoken in this part-session today previously and, of course, keeping the proper balance between the political groups.
mr president, europe 2020, the electric car. innovation and competitiveness are knowledge. many regions outperform their states in the impetus and results offered by their innovation policies. as a basque, i am proud to tell you that five years ago we started to build an intelligence center for the automotive industry. more than 500 companies are currently carrying out r & d & i in electric mobility for the whole of europe. in the basque country, there is also a consortium whose leaders have shared their experience here: the hiriko, a modular urban electric car. it all started with the public/private partnership and the regional drive, which allowed spain, which was also not involved in this effort until the last minute, to include these achievements in its programme and to organise its innovation summit in the basque country. if the regions and their knowledge are finally integrated in order to build a more participatory and effective europe, then the challenges we set for the future in this resolution - which we support - will be easier to achieve!
acting president of the council. - mr president, i thank the members who have welcomed the initiative of the spanish presidency of the council to give priority to the promotion of the electric vehicle in the programme of the presidency. and thanks to the rapporteurs who have contributed to the motion for a resolution which is to be voted on tomorrow in this house, some of whom have used the floor: for example, teresa riera, pilar del castillo, michael cramer and marisa matias. i am very grateful to you for your speeches, which, along with others, make it clear that this is a strategic objective of the european union, but you have also warned of the difficulties that the construction, the massive, extensive development of the electric vehicle still faces, and also of the need to involve all political and economic actors. mrs bilbao has just spoken of the regions as a key element in the development of the electric vehicle. i am convinced that the european union must take all these elements into account in the future. i would therefore like to point out some of the arguments which i think are in favour of the electric vehicle, but i will also refer to the difficulties, the obstacles which i think we must overcome. from the point of view of advantages, it seems to me that there are two major dimensions of the electric vehicle that offer many advantages. one is the technological dimension and the other is the energy dimension. in the field of technology, the technology for electric vehicles already exists. it's working. in fact there are already more than ninety different electric vehicle models announced by vehicle manufacturers to be put on the market at more or less nearby dates. it is also true that, at the same time, we must recognize that some of these technologies need to be clearly developed, because they have limitations at the moment, as is the case with batteries, recharging or that warning that mr zasada gave us about the absence of sound and the dangers that this can entail for people. i think it's very important to consider his reflection. the technology used by the electric vehicle is also the most efficient and has the most environmental advantages. the efficiency level can reach 60% of the technology used for the electric vehicle, while traditional motors have an efficiency of 20%. on the other hand, in the field of energy, the electric vehicle objectively helps to achieve these objectives, which we were talking about this afternoon when we were talking about europe 2020 and the objective of combating climate change, the so-called 20/20/20 objective. the electric vehicle, which has storage capacity, has a technology that allows to soften one of the problems, the negative or weak points of renewable energies. the electric vehicle helps renewable energies, which have a weak point: they are irregular. the electric vehicle compensates for this irregularity by its special characteristics. and also, as far as energy security is concerned. many european countries do not have oil reserves, for example, and the electric vehicle could make up for that shortfall, helping to achieve what is also a strategic objective of the union: the fight for energy security, which we have seen that sometimes makes our societies deeply vulnerable. finally, i would say that, despite this, despite these advantages, we must admit that the electric vehicle will force us to change many of the manufacturing structures, including the technological ones i have mentioned above, the habits of citizens, the distribution networks of the source of energy for propulsion, and it will even make it necessary to go to a new communication strategy, as mr van nistelrooij said very rightly. it has many advantages, but it also has many obstacles, it also has many difficulties, and this clearly leads us to the need to give it a definite european perspective, to give it special attention by the european governments, the commission and this parliament, which will vote on a number of resolutions tomorrow. that is why it is so important that these three institutions of the union - the council, the commission and the european parliament - work together on the strategic line on the electric vehicle.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the spanish presidency has perfectly framed the electric car strategy in a wider, broader context, which is not just about the electric car but also about the development and defence of the automobile industry, in the context of european industrial policy, looking at what industry and industrial and employment development will be in the coming decades. this choice, which the commission shares, is therefore based on a twofold strategy, which certainly does not exclude serious work to reduce co2 emissions from conventional vehicles, on two pillars: the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the safety of the car, the hot-air vehicle, which must be improved and so it is right to focus, as mr bilbao and mr pallone have said, on technology and research if we are to win the challenge on the global market. we cannot think of a competitive european automobile industry unless there is strong action for innovation and research: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. choosing the electric car is not a choice that excludes other possibilities: cancian, who stressed the importance of hybrid cars, hydrogen cars. the electric car is an important possibility which has already won a lot of support and has already achieved positive results. many member states are in fact opting for this option. i repeat, however, that i have also heard some members speak against the electric car hypothesis, which is the subject of this evening's debate. the electric car represents an extraordinary opportunity, but it is not the only opportunity, because our aim is to have a more competitive european industry on world markets and to reduce pollution and co2 emissions in the transport system, including urban transport. i would remind mr van nistelrooij that the european commission presented the urban action plan during the last parliamentary term, where the electric transport system is of extraordinary importance in this context. of course, there's a lot to be done to have a competitive electric car. someone raised the issue of standardization: the commission document already gives the mandate to the eu standardisation bodies in 2010 to develop a harmonised european standard for electric vehicle charging systems by next year. we have already given an answer to these concerns, as we have given, in the document approved by the college, an answer also to the concerns of mrs merkies also in relation to the subject of raw materials, having raised the question of lithium, together with other members who have spoken in this debate on batteries. the european commission, precisely because it is aware of the problem, has decided to include in its work programme - and we also discussed this at a recent meeting with the honourable member - a communication on the problem of raw materials, which is a priority for us. some members - mr belet, mr matias - raised the problem of employment, but many other members also spoke of the retraining of workers, because if we are to have an industrial system in the automobile sector which is highly innovative, which focuses on electricity but also on the development of a transformation of the hot-drive engine - hot-drive engines which are less polluting but also all the other opportunities - we must also aim at retraining workers, because our aim is to comply with the treaty of lisbon, which considers the market to be the best instrument for making social policy. however, the concerns raised by some members are already answered in the commission's communication, which expressly mentions the commission's intention to allocate resources from the european social fund to specific initiatives for the retraining and updating of workers, precisely so that they too can play a leading role in the implementation of this innovation which will make european industry more competitive. i think europe has a strategy. mr. stassen is against electric cars: it is an opportunity, but the market decides. you can also not buy the electric car: no one is forcing citizens to do this. mr zasada raised another problem, which concerns transport safety: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are well aware of this problem and we are convinced that electric cars can also be a step forward in terms of safety. but we must also give precise directions to the manufacturers in the sector, so that we can really have a pollution-free electric car. i have tried to answer almost all the questions raised by members and i am also answering mr lange, who referred to cars 21. the communication which the commission has approved and which has subsequently been presented to parliament and the council expressly mentions, in the very last pages, our desire to relaunch the cars 21 high level group, which has been an extraordinary opportunity to work with stakeholders but which must continue to represent it, especially as we believe - in agreement with the spanish presidency and with the vast majority of members who have spoken in this debate, mr president - that the automobile industry represents an extraordinary asset, which certainly needs to be modified and in some cases restructured, which certainly needs to be more modern but which represents an extraordinary potential and an extraordinary pride in the eyes of the european industrial and business system. that is why we are all committed - and this evening's debate shows this - to making this industry more competitive, and we are more competitive if we rely on innovation and research. i think that the choice to commit ourselves to electric cars is a good way of ensuring that european industry can be competitive on the world market.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes of six political groups) in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the one-minute speeches in accordance with rule 150 of the rules of procedure.
mr president, last week europe lost a great opportunity, the opportunity to lead the world in astrophysical research for the next 20 years: the european southern observatory decided, on the basis of reports that were certainly not transparent, that the extremely large european telescope should be installed in chile and not in the canary islands. it is time to congratulate chile, but also to examine whether europe has made it possible for a european installation, decided by a european institution, with european funds and which was to involve an investment of more than 1 000 million euros, to be installed in america instead of in europe. the european parliament unanimously supported its location in la palma and i thank it, but what has the council done? what has the spanish presidency done, has it had any meetings with the observatory, has it had any meetings with any of the member states which had to decide on the location? has he really defended the european candidacy? the europeans of la palma, the canaries and the rest of europe are waiting for answers. today they are convinced that not everything that could have been done was done.
this closes this spot.
the next item is the debate on - the oral question to the commission on the protection of consumers' interests in the competition rules for the motor vehicle sector in the internal market, by malcolm harbour, andreas schwab, evelyne gebhardt, cristian silviu buşoi, adam bielan, heide rühle and kyriacos triantaphyllides, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-0044/201 b7-0209/2010) and - the oral question to the commission on the motor vehicle block exemption regulation, by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0047/2010 b7-0210/2010).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank not only you for your excellent presidency of this sitting but also all the members who have spoken in this debate. i am very grateful to you, not only for your speeches today, but also for all your contributions, which have been extremely interesting and important for us throughout the process, which, as i said in my speech, has been a long process of consultation - if i may say so - in all directions; not only consultation with parliament, with the members of this parliament and with the committees of this parliament responsible for the problems of the car, of competition for dealers, of consumers, but also consultation with the member states, consultation with all the sectors involved and with all those who have wanted to express their views. the aim of any competition rules, any competition decisions, is to benefit the consumer. and that is the goal, the core of our concerns and the purpose of our regulation. consumers, as they approach the decision, important -- because, as some of you have said, it's a very important expense for every consumer and every family -- to go to a distributor, they want to know the price and the quality, compare, and that can be done, and probably can be done now better than at any time in the past. they want to be able to choose without the hindrances and obstacles of lack of competition. we believe that with the new regulation this choice will be extended, not reduced, but extended. and they can and should be able to choose - as many of you have said - after-sales services, the workshop where they can repair their vehicle, where they can check that the vehicle is working properly; they want those workshops, whether or not they belong to the manufacturer or are linked to the manufacturer of the vehicle, to have the appropriate technical information and to have the spare parts and the necessary specifications. all this is improved by the commission's present proposal. it all gets better. i would like to ask you to pay attention to the text you know, the draft, the draft and the guidelines, the accompanying guidelines. in all these respects, the future regulation will provide more advantages for consumers than the current one. small and medium-sized enterprises: what has happened? because we have to listen to opinions and we listen to them with a lot of attention and interest. everyone's opinions and, of course, those of your honourable members. but what has happened to the small distributors over the years? have they increased or decreased? have they been favoured with greater opportunities to enter the distribution circuit, the distribution market or have they been disadvantaged or encountered obstacles? more like the second. and that's the experience. it was not, of course, the will of those who drew up and decided the regulation in 2002, but it is what experience has taught us in recent years. and that's what we want to correct. what has been happening or is happening with certain workshops or with certain manufacturers of car spare parts? they have difficulties which will disappear with the new regulation and the new guidelines. we are therefore proposing a regulation and guidelines which will facilitate the possibilities and opportunities for small businesses along the whole chain, from the manufacture of parts to the repair of vehicles. the distributors, whom many of you have mentioned and whom i have also heard directly, not just through texts of written consultations or meetings in which i have not participated; i have been with them and have been talking to them, in an extraordinarily constructive meeting... not all distributors have the same interests. there are large distributors, with a strong market presence in some of the member states, but there are also many small distributors who are more happy with what we are proposing now than with what has been in force since 2002, because they have seen that certain aspects, not wanted by the legislator of 2002, have not benefited them, but have created difficulties for them to compete with the large distributors. and finally, the deadlines for withdrawal. we provide protection, we even provide exceptions for every time we consider that, with the current regulation, both the vehicle regulation and the general vertical agreements regulation, despite our will as legislators, competition suffers, and we can derogate from the application of the regulation if we see that it is not protecting competition. we can do this in the general regulation of vertical agreements and we can do it in the specific regulation of vehicles. so i share your concerns. the fact is that i think they are better dealt with in the proposal for a regulation than they have been so far, not because we are smarter now than we were eight years ago, but simply because we all learn from experience. you have to listen to opinions, but you also have to learn from experience.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by alojz peterle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission communication entitled 'action against cancer: a european partnership' (com (2009) 291 - 2009/2103 (ini)).
member of the commission. - mr president i am very pleased with the enthusiasm in this parliament today to join together in the fight against this cancer disease. i would like to thank mr peterle for his report, and i would also like to thank mrs morvai who has just spoken, for giving us the hope, the positive aspect, that all is not lost against this disease. you have made many points; many of the ideas you had in parliament have been taken into account in the commission's communication and i guarantee that the suggestions you are making today and made in the report will be taken into careful consideration when we come to programming our activity. as regards the environmental factor, i can say that it is a fact that the environment is a very important factor as a determinant in the fight against cancer. but we have to say that the high standards we have in europe today go a long way towards reducing the incidence of this disease. we must therefore increase our commitments to continue ensuring that high environmental standards are maintained. research is also something we want to continue to emphasise. now that the pharmaceutical industry is part of the dicastery, from my function as commissioner, we have a much greater chance of working with the industry to try to coordinate perhaps a little better the research that is being done and to ensure the effectiveness of this research. one of the pillars on which i want to build the activity over the next five years is to ensure, as far as possible, that there is as wide accessibility as possible for the medicines coming on the market, because one of the big problems we have in europe, which was mentioned here today as well, is the inequality here in the field of health. and this is something we want to ensure in a special way: the accessibility of the medicines coming onto the market. i thank you again, and my final note is that we must continue to work as hard as we can to convince people, all of us, of the importance of prevention, of screening, for example, especially for breast cancer which has been mentioned so much here. it is important that, when there is a screening facility in many, if not all, countries in europe, we should encourage our women to go for this test.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by patrizia toia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the mobilisation of information and communication technologies to facilitate the transition to a high energy efficiency and low carbon economy (com (2009) 0111 - 2009/2228 (ini)) (a7-0120/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission very much welcomes your interest, support and valuable recommendations on mobilising ict to facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient, low-carbon economy, and has read the toia report with care. it is important to recognise the significant role the ict sector can play as an enabler to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and we need to make sure that this potential is embraced and made a reality. the commission intends to make a priority of this issue under the european digital agenda which will be adopted soon by the european commission. as you mention in the report, ict can help to significantly improve energy efficiency in other areas, such as buildings and transport in particular. we also concur with you that smart grids and the roll-out of smart meters by member states are key to realising this potential. the roll-out needs to be driven forward within member states, so as to deliver more active consumers who can exploit renewable generation and energy-efficient technology. a common measurement framework for the ict industry’s own emissions is also essential. a rigorous measurement framework, widely agreed and adopted by the industry, is a must to quantify the real benefits of information and communication technologies. this must be taken into account in considering the beneficial impact of ict used. since the adoption of the recommendation on this topic in october 2009, the commission has undertaken a number of actions with stakeholders to drive the agenda forward. let me mention a few that address concerns raised in your report. in february 2010 the ict for energy efficiency forum was launched. the forum brings together leading eu, japanese and us high-tech industry associations. they will set targets on the basis of a common measurement framework for the ict sector’s own energy and carbon footprints, to be developed by the end of 2010. the forum is also looking at the contribution the ict sector can make to improve the efficiency of other sectors, such as building and transport. major european cities have signed up to the green digital charter. these cities commit to reducing their own ict carbon footprints by 30% by 2020, and to deploying five large-scale ict pilots per city by 2015. the total number of cities committed to the green digital charter has increased from 14 to 21. energy retail market issues are becoming increasingly important, as markets move closer to consumers, to the introduction of new technology and systems in the form of smart meters and smart grids. work with the commission’s smart grids task force is also advancing. the aim is to advise the commission on policy, a regulatory framework, as well as to coordinate the first steps towards the implementation of smart grids under the provisions of the third energy package. a set of recommendations is expected by the end of 2011. to conclude, let me emphasise that the commission is very committed to contributing to achieve the 20-20-20 targets by 2020 as set by the heads of state and government, and ict has an important role to play in this. we thank you for the valuable input provided by your report and look forward to cooperating with you to ensure that we adopt a good policy to achieve these targets.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the last point is the report by andrea cozzolino, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the protection of the communities' financial interests and the fight against fraud - annual report 2008, 2009/2167 (ini) (a7-0100/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, on behalf of my colleague, commissioner šemeta, i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive report and the proposals put forward for improving the protection of the union’s financial interests. the commission appreciates that parliament strongly underlines the joint responsibility of the eu institutions and the member states in this respect. let me just make a couple of remarks. regarding the reporting of irregularities by the member states, olaf has established a new web-based reporting system called ims: irregularities management system. this has brought about considerable improvements in the reporting of irregularities by member states, including those which you criticise in your report. the structural funds is an area of particular concern both for the parliament and the commission. the commission has taken strong actions to remedy weaknesses in the most affected areas and programmes in the framework of the action plan for structural actions in 2008, including a vast simplification exercise. with his fellow commissioners, my colleague commissioner šemeta, will pursue efforts aiming at reducing further the error rate in cohesion policy. the commission will assist and monitor the member states for the closure of the 2000-2006 programmes and will make sure that the management and control systems under the new programming period will deliver their benefit. moreover, the commission will liaise with the member states’ authorities to ensure that they fully assume their responsibility in shared management as reinforced by the new provisions in the lisbon treaty. considerable progress has been achieved concerning transparency about the beneficiaries of eu funds. in the area of agriculture the council has agreed that publication of the beneficiaries of funds is the responsibility of the member states. the information has to be made available on a single website in each member state, in line with the principle of shared management. to provide an overview and facilitate access to the member states’ websites, the links to these websites are linked on the europa web page. i come now to olaf. i thank the rapporteur for the strong support he explicitly states for the work of olaf. my colleague commissioner šemeta fully agrees that the office should concentrate on its core tasks of conducting investigations, although olaf also has other important duties to fulfil, in particular in the area of fraud prevention. he also agrees that the focus for olaf should be on the more important cases and that small-scale fraud should be handled by other bodies. in 2008 olaf revised the financial follow-up procedures relating to olaf cases by establishing de minimis thresholds. commissioner šemeta has taken good note of your comments on the need for olaf to work together with the internal audit services, which he fully shares. olaf and ias have been cooperating closely since 2003. they exchange information and provide each other with specific training to improve their respective staff knowledge on issues of mutual interest. olaf is willing to cooperate still more closely with the ias. regarding procedural rights, the new olaf manual adopted in december 2009, which has been transmitted to parliament, already provides comprehensive guidance for olaf investigators. more detailed rules on procedural rights will be included in the legislative proposal for revision of the olaf regulation. in this respect the commission would also recall that the reflection paper on the legislative reform of olaf will be submitted to parliament and the council before the summer break. commissioner šemeta looks forward to presenting this paper to the committee on budgetary control at its meeting in july. finally, he looks forward very much to working with parliament as an ally in the task of improving the efficiency of olaf and the protection of eu taxpayers’ money.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the first item is the report by tamás deutsch, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual report of the european investment bank for 2008 (2009/2166 (ini)) (a7-0062/2010).
i shall now give the floor for half a minute to mr mölzer, who has been alluded to by another colleague.
mr mölzer, your words are therefore entered in the minutes of this sitting.
president of the european investment bank. - mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their comments. of course, a number of issues raised would merit further discussion. i can only give a few answers here, distinguishing between questions which relate to our operational priorities and those which relate more to control and governance. as regards our operational priorities, one of them has caught the attention of many of you, and that is the support to be given to small and mediumsized enterprises. this was emphasized by mrs györi and mr schmidt among others. i think they are right to stress the importance of supporting smes. as you may know, we launched in 2008 a new product for bank loans to small and medium-sized businesses, which allows us to better track the use of the funds we lend. i can tell you that from the last quarter of 2008 to the end of 2009 we signed loans for 21 billion, of which 16 billion were actually disbursed and, at the end of last year, more than 90% of these funds had already been actually loaned to small and medium-sized enterprises. so i think that there is a significant support that can be provided through this channel, through the commercial banks, including, as mrs györi has stressed, not only the traditional commercial banks but also the regional banks and savings banks as intermediaries. we've diversified the range of our intermediaries. we are also trying to work closely with our subsidiary, the european investment fund, in combined operations, as this fund can provide guarantees to the sme loan portfolio. mrs auconie has given a very concrete example of this participation and i thank her for her words of support in this regard. the second operational priority that has caught your attention is of course convergence, and i can confirm that the european investment bank is working to increase its operations in the so-called convergence regions. so you will see that in 2009 our lending volume grew more in the new member states than in the old ones, with a determined will to try to help narrow the gap between member states, because that is the spirit of convergence. in this context, as mrs kadenbach and mr czarnecki have stressed, it is important to have good cooperation with the commission on the use of the structural funds, and i can tell you that this is the case. we have also developed with the commission several joint programmes: jaspers, to provide technical assistance for the preparation of projects eligible for the structural funds; jeremie, which is an original idea to transform the structural funds into financial instruments with a revolving character (the same amounts can be used several times); and finally, jessica, which is the same idea of using the structural funds for funds in the field of urban renewal. third operational priority: energy and the fight against climate change. we may have the opportunity to discuss this in more detail, but i can assure you that the idea is good, in line with the strategy agreed at european level, to put more emphasis on renewable energy and energy efficiency. mr lamberts cited figures for the period 2002-2008, but if you look at the most recent figures, particularly in 2009, you will see that the proportion is reversing, since in 2009 we financed renewable energy projects for more than four billion, which represents more than 70% of our financing for electricity generation. the intention is therefore to continue this reversal of the ratio by increasing funding for renewable energy and energy efficiency, and i thank the speaker, mr stavrakakis, for his reference to the elena programme, which is again a joint programme with the commission to provide technical assistance in the field of energy efficiency. i would also like to say to mrs benarab-attou that we respect the choice of each member state as regards the policy mix. if a state decides to use nuclear energy, the eib has no right to oppose it, but i can confirm that in the case of jordan we are only discussing financing for renewable energy. quickly now, a few questions relating to control and governance. as regards supervision, mr audy has returned to it, he knows our position, we are quite open, we are already largely controlled by an independent audit committee, by the court of auditors when we use the european budget, by olaf, by the european ombudsman. i think we're the most heavily regulated international financial institution. that said, i do recognise that having banking supervision could be useful, and so we are quite open to proposals that could be made in this area, particularly through the new european banking authority. as regards basel 3, i simply tell mr rübig that we are following the work closely. it is too early to say what the impact might be, since we are only at the consultation stage on basel 3 and the parameters are not yet settled. as regards offshore centres, i would say to mr geier that this is something that has attracted a great deal of our attention. if he wishes, we could explain our new policy in more detail, but really, the concern is to avoid tax evasion through the use of offshore centres. finally, a particular point raised by mr schmidt. he is right: we have progress to make on gender equality. the figure he quoted is for executives only. it is true that we have far too few women in the executive ranks of the eib. we have put in place an action plan and we hope to correct this situation in the coming years, but i want to assure you of our willingness in this respect to improve a situation which, as it stands today, is indeed unacceptable.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for a very substantive and constructive debate and for the excellent report by mr deutsch. i would like to say three things in this context. firstly, i am confident that this debate and report will provide an excellent basis for the rapid adoption of the mandate for external relations of the european investment bank. this is important to ensure effective action on behalf of the eu's common objectives in foreign policy and development cooperation. secondly, the european investment bank is a key partner for the commission, in particular in achieving the europe 2020 objectives, namely sustainable growth and jobs. the european investment bank holds the keys to infrastructure, innovation and small business development, and we work very closely and seamlessly together in this. ladies and gentlemen, many of you have understandably referred to the situation in greece. i have already expressed my condolences on behalf of the commission to the families and friends of the victims who died as a result of the violence in athens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the commission has been active in building the greek economic stabilisation programme and in adopting a large financial package to support the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and the stability of the greek economy. we presented the eurogroup at the end of last week with a major financial package and a stabilization programme, worth a total of eur 110 billion. the eurogroup of finance ministers decided on this last sunday on the basis of a proposal from the commission, the ecb and the imf. it was a difficult but at the same time necessary and responsible decision, and it is now crucial that all national parliaments finalise their decisions quickly. i am counting on your support to achieve this objective. this is not just about greece, but about the stability of the euro area economy as a whole. it is essential to stop the bushfires in greece before they spread to europe. i am sure we can do this, but it requires responsible action. this is not the time for populist points-gathering, but for responsible and determined action. the euro is not just a technical arrangement; it is perhaps the most important common political project of the european union.
i call mr hans-peter martin to speak on a point of personal reference. your compatriot mr mölzer has referred to mr hans-peter martin, has referred to his background and his conduct and is therefore entitled to reply under rule 151. these speeches on personal grounds cannot become a game of ping-pong where one speaks of the other and the other speaks of the other; therefore, with mr martin's speech i will take this matter absolutely for granted. mr martin will have one minute to speak; i ask him to adhere strictly to rule 151 of the rules of procedure and i warn him that i will withdraw his right to speak at the exact minute.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the commission statement on the massacres in jos, nigeria, in january and march.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for a very serious and responsible debate today. many of you have highlighted the complexity of societal problems in nigeria. i agree with you, and the commission is aware of the complexity of these problems. we continue our committed partnership with nigeria, and i can only agree with you on how important it is to fight corruption and impunity, because corruption is unfortunately deeply rooted and hinders societal progress and the democratic process in this resource-rich country, and thus damages the lives of ordinary people. we actively give strong and constructive support to nigeria. we use a wide array of instruments from diplomacy to development and the commission remains attentive and committed to containing the violence in nigeria with the diplomatic means we have at our disposal. the next forum to address this very important issue at a high level is the eu-nigeria ministerial meeting in the autumn, and we shall certainly discuss this matter on that occasion.
in order to close the debate, seven motions for resolutions have been tabled, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, this is an oral amendment tabled by my colleague mr brok, who unfortunately cannot be with us this morning. it would be an amendment to paragraph 5 and would consist in adding after the reference to the elections of 10 october: 'to strengthen democracy and political accountability'.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i am against not convening a convention for the revision of treaties.
in writing. − i voted against this report because of our main amendment, in which we claimed that members of the european parliament should be elected by direct universal suffrage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, together with the big majority, including the two oral amendments made during the vote.
in writing. − i followed my group in voting in favour of this resolution, although our amendment on speeding up a review of type-approval legislation was not adopted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, together with the big majority of the chamber.
in writing. − i voted in favour, of course, of this important report, crucial for preventing cancer.
in writing. − we, greens, voted in favour of this report. all the original parts of the text that some groups wanted to delete remained in.
in writing. - a large part of this parliament, like the spanish socialist delegation, has formally opposed paragraph 41 of the resolution, which calls for the application of subsidiarity to land policy. we all recognise the diversity of the different regions of the union, but precisely for this reason, as the resolution says, the south is the one that is most affected by the pressures of climate change and needs europe and its common policies. it is a matter of solidarity from which the whole eu would benefit. we therefore deeply regret the disappearance in the final text of the first proposal, whereby mr prodi called for the unblocking of the soil directive in the council. it is essential to put this legislative instrument into action, which is essential for adaptation and, in particular, to tackle the risk of degradation and desertification. it is true that the risk is more present in the south, but let us not forget that climate change affects the whole of europe's environmental heritage. the addressees of this resolution should know that, in the field of land, a large part of this parliament continues to call for a policy of solidarity and common ground.
in writing. − we, as greens, voted in favour of this report. the good new is that the amendment to delete the focus on nuclear safety was defeated.
in writing. − in the final vote, i said in favour. the amendment by the ecr group, which i voted against, was defeated.
in writing. − that was an easy one. i voted in favour in the final vote.
in writing. − i voted, of course, in favour of such important resolution, and i supported very much the oral amendement proposed by my colleague kill-nielsen to call on the nigerian authorities to repeal the recent move by some nigerian state governors to execute death row inmates.
mr president, since i was unable to do so on 11 march, the 'european day of the victims of terrorism', i would like to pay a well-deserved tribute to them today from this parliament, which recognizes the enormous sacrifice of those who have paid the highest price in the name of freedom. it is urgent to start work on a directive to protect the rights of the victims of terrorism, who are always the great forgotten ones and who endure the humiliation of being unjustly equated with their executioners. it is high time that the european institutions recognize the dignity of the victims of terrorism and help them in their right to protection and justice; that this should soon be translated into a law that will honour all those who make it possible, and that the first article should be that support for the victims of terrorism consists in the recognition of the right to justice and that no government should ever pay a political price. i call on all those who can defend the victims to never forget that true peace is born of justice, and that is the only one that from europe and from anywhere in the world we must defend those who believe in freedom and democracy.
mr president, the closure of a large part of european airspace in recent weeks following the eruption of the icelandic volcano has had serious consequences for the whole of the european economy: certainly for the aviation sector - passengers, airlines and airports - but also for the tourism sector. and that's what i wanted to talk to you about. in spain it's the second industry. in the islands where i come from, the first industry. there is great concern about the effects of this volcanic cloud on the tourist industry. there is talk of a loss of 42 million euros a day. it has certainly been a blow to the tourism sector, which is still concerned about the effects in the future. the commissioner for industry and entrepreneurship, tajani, undertook to study the losses suffered by this sector. what i would ask for today is an urgent aid plan for these airlines and for the rest of the companies in the tourism sector, and that the tourism sector be considered as a priority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the initiative 'citizens' agenda for science and innovation', launched by the spanish presidency of the council through the ministry of science and innovation. the website www.reto2030.eu invites the public to select from the challenges proposed by 14 european personalities which science and innovation must solve by 2030. the results can be viewed on the website and on a sign in the hall of the council building in brussels until 26 may. on that date, the competitiveness council will be informed of the result. i would like to invite you to vote for one of these challenges and to spread this initiative in your respective countries so that, as jean monnet said, with our participation we can move towards a european union of the people, towards a european union of citizens.
mr president, the eurozone came extremely close to meltdown 10 days ago but the european rescue package has given our common future a chance. i believe the crisis has more to do with deep-rooted problems in some eurozone member states than with speculators: member states with fiscal indiscipline, inefficient labour markets and massive debts in the private sector. to save the eurozone we have to reform its governance. last week’s governance proposal from the european commission contained some good ideas: for instance, much more emphasis on fiscal policy and a clear coordination in fiscal policies between member states. these proposals should also take into account a common programme of structural reforms. in spain last week mr zapatero chose the austerity programme so that he could avoid the electorally riskier labour-market reform. finally, do not worry about the value of the euro: the common currency’s fall is good for the eurozone economy.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i naturally join in congratulating mrs lulling, the members of the council who have worked on this directive and the commission. i would also like to say, however, what mrs lulling has said: i think it is worrying that some member states are making it so difficult to standardise non-discrimination and equal treatment at european level. it's not the only case we're seeing this. we are also seeing this in the directive on multiple discrimination and equal treatment in other areas, and i think this is something that should make us think. we cannot appeal to subsidiarity when we have such an important and essential question of clear and fundamental rights for all people living in the european union. i believe that this can never be an excuse for allowing people to suffer discrimination within the european union. and i think that at the moment the directive which is about to be adopted - i hope it will be - solves part of that problem. and i think that's good, i think that's important. it guarantees greater equality of treatment for people who are currently seeking opportunities as selfemployed and, logically, also for people who are linked to them: spouses of these people who are selfemployed in the workplace. however, there is another important element, and this is where i think we need to put the emphasis. it has been said that it is a step forward - and it is - to increase maternity leave to 14 weeks. but let us not forget that there is another directive in progress which also points out the importance of extending this leave - i insist that it is a leave and not a dismissal - from the point of view of equality. and this necessarily implies that there can be no discrimination, not only between member states, but also on the basis of the type of activity that the persons wishing to benefit from this permit want to have. and so this need to level the playing field, both between member states and according to the activity and the type of social security coverage we have today, is a priority which goes beyond the directive we are about to adopt today.
madam president, i would like to reiterate my thanks to both mrs lulling and the spanish presidency. i would like to thank mrs lulling for her persistence, tenacity and the work she has put into getting us to the point where we are now, and the spanish presidency for making it possible to bring together the various opposing positions within the council so that we can have this agreement on the table today. in this debate we are faced with the amendment of directive 86/613/eec, which has given clear signs of failing to achieve the objectives which were set. i think it is essential to stress the very important significance of this agreement at a time of crisis and uncertainty in europe, which has not been an obstacle to progress in the social protection of selfemployed women in the union. i would remind you that in 2007 more than 10% of the union's workers were selfemployed. the agreement we have reached may not be the best solution, but it is a possibility for further progress in the future. the main objective of this directive is to extend social protection to the spouses of all selfemployed persons, including partners in a common-law relationship, and to ensure that all selfemployed women and partners of selfemployed persons have social security cover as a guarantee which is not provided in all member states today. we are currently engaged in the design of the europe 2020 strategy, where we will define the future of the european model. this future cannot ignore the principle of equal treatment, and it is therefore essential to make progress in measures of this kind to guarantee this principle. what i hope is that today's step, with the adoption of this proposal, will be the first of many others that we have to take.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission, and in particular commissioner barnier, whom i am replacing this evening, has followed with great attention the preparation of parliament's own-initiative report on the development of public procurement and the discussion of the amendments. effective public procurement discipline is fundamental to ensuring that public money is used in the best way for the well-being of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises, as ms ticǎu, ms comi and mr harbour have said, especially in the current context of budgetary constraints. the comments made in the report will be taken into account when preparing further initiatives. some initiatives are already under way to respond to these remarks. the commission services have launched an ex post evaluation of the public procurement directives. a communication to clarify how public procurement can be used to promote sustainable development, social inclusion and innovation is being prepared. an analysis of the court's case law on public-public cooperation is also under way and will help to define the scope of public-public cooperation which falls or does not fall within the scope of application of european public procurement law. as regards a possible initiative on concessions, the commission is taking the burden of proof and is working on the impact assessment to be finalised in 2010. this assessment is a prerequisite for any legislative initiative in this area. if the current legal framework is found to be a brake on economic development or the development of a new and better service of general interest, then it may be necessary to remedy this by improving transparency, legal certainty and clarity of the applicable rules. on the international level, we are doing everything we can to open up public procurement in the world's major economies. in order to ensure the competitiveness of european industry, reciprocity is at the heart of all our negotiations. we want to work closely with parliament and we invite you to keep a constructive and open approach to the debate.
mr president, the report we are debating today, mrs keller's report, focuses on an issue which is essential for effective development policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am talking about development policy and not just official development aid. coherence means that all sectoral policies - trade policy, agricultural policy, all external action - must be combined into a single policy, a policy that is consistent with the overall objectives we are pursuing. only then will we accumulate synergies and only then will we multiply the beneficial effects of global public goods. that is why i supported and support in mrs keller's report the appointment by parliament of a rapporteur to evaluate and monitor the development policies on which this parliament is taking a position.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, thank you very much to mrs malmström for her presence. i want to join mr tavares' report and spirit of work, because his work with ngos, his work with unhcr, his work looking at comparative law outside the european union is very important. these experiences are fundamental and i, who have been a municipal authority, also believe that all the municipalities in europe must commit themselves to this issue. because we are living through a crisis, but the deepest crisis yet has been with the refugees, because there has been a crisis of collective amnesia. we have forgotten in europe and in the rich countries that the wars caused by refugees are wars for which we are responsible, for which our states and governments are responsible. we have to overcome this collective amnesia. i agree with mrs malmström's words about commitment and commitment is necessary, yes! and a committee of this parliament has visited the palestinians in iraq. of course you are! we have to engage with these refugees. but with the same affection i have for mrs malmström, i would say to her: the differences between the european parliament - she has been a member of parliament - and the commission on delegated acts must be overcome, because i do not want this report, which today seems to have a favourable collective criticism, to be blocked because we do not understand the commission and parliament with delegated acts.
madam president, i am setting my position in telegraphic form. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr coelho. the process was to be completed by 30 september. the regulatory instruments must be amended before they expire. secondly, no commission proposal sets a deadline or removes the expiry clauses in the original proposals. thirdly, a transitional period should be established for migration, which could be extended by comitology if necessary. fourthly, the process is not subject to the control of the european parliament, which i think is very bad. fifthly, the results of the tests on sis ii are not known and parliament must be informed. sixthly, i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal and the warning that the court of auditors will intervene if the project fails. as regards the reports by mr tavares on the european refugee fund and resettlement, i would also like to congratulate mr tavares. the main problem is the lack of solidarity within the union. and i say to him that we must be cautious about financial aid to member states which are taking in refugees for the first time, especially because of the comparative injustices. these measures, mr tavares, which i support in principle, require a detailed financial study beforehand.
mr president, commissioner, we are faced with a simple reform, but one of great importance for the outermost regions, especially at a time when the crisis is affecting everyone, but in a fundamental way for these regions which have structural and permanent handicaps which make these changes necessary. i am referring to the canary islands. in the case of the canary islands, the most important change concerns the supply of milk preparations for industrial processing. we are talking about skimmed milk powder with vegetable fat, which is a traditional product for local consumers and has been sold in the canary islands for more than 40 years. with great effort and overcoming many difficulties, the establishment of a local industry generating employment and obvious added value was achieved. and i would like to emphasize this because at the moment, more specifically in our islands with very high unemployment, supporting a small but job-creating industry is not only becoming a necessity, but also an obligation. the aim is to maintain supplies of this product, which is used for local consumption in small quantities (~800 tonnes per year), thus removing the transitional nature of the measure and thus giving stability to the industry, given the limited importance of the measure in the global context. i said earlier that the outermost regions have important handicaps, but they must be seen as an opportunity for europe. the various association agreements now being worked on and discussed - free trade agreements with colombia and peru - and others that are being negotiated, such as mercosur, are a clear threat to our agricultural sector. and i'm thinking of a lot of products - tomato, banana - and in the livestock sector. i have said it many times: these agreements must strike a balance in which, by giving up some of the others, we all win, but in no way can the cost of the agreements be passed on to a particular product or sector. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr alves, and thank the commission and the council for the fact that, together with parliament, we have been able to reach agreement on this first trilogue on agriculture.
member of the commission. - mr president, i apologise for the delay, but i was absolutely anxious to be present at this debate because it is the first time for me that a decision has been taken in the agricultural field in the form of codecision. i would like to once again pay tribute to and thank mr alves and all the departments of parliament for the very cooperative and efficient way in which they worked with the commission and the council to bring about this decision. we wanted a quick decision so that the measures in this report could be implemented quickly in the regions concerned. some decisions will even apply retroactively. that is why - and i am also replying to mr tirolien - we have not tabled any further amendments. as with some other proposals, we would have needed further justification and analysis to see how they could be introduced. we preferred to move quickly and i had several discussions with mr alves about this. i am therefore pleased to see the support for this proposal and i hope that we can work in the same way in the future with parliament on other subjects. i'm sure you do. i can also assure all the speakers, as commissioner for agriculture, that the negotiations with mercosur have been mentioned on several occasions. i can assure you, as i have also done in the debates in the commission's colleges on the reopening of these negotiations, that i will check very carefully that these negotiations are proceeding in the interests of european agriculture. of course, these negotiations must be seen in a more global light, not just in the agricultural field, but i can assure you that in the coming months, in the coming years, during these negotiations, i will ensure that the european agricultural model, which is based on quality, on diversity, on the occupation of the territory, is preserved either by the results of these negotiations or by the measures that will be taken as a result of these negotiations. the question has also been raised as to why the degressive system should be applied, why not opt for quantities such as those applied so far in the azores for sugar, where, precisely, it was agreed with the portuguese authorities, with the local authorities of the azores, to put in place an economic system which would enable the company in question to face competition through economic investment measures. i am pleased to see the support i have seen and the commitments made by the portuguese government to support the company in this process and i hope that in this way we can offer an alternative to the azores producers. mr mölzer said that the cap was not strong enough, that it was not working well and that it should be renationalised. i ask you a simple question: look at the incomes of farmers today, look at the share of cap support in that income and ask yourself how farmers would be doing today if there were no common agricultural policy. this does not mean that the cap should not be adapted. it must be in good part so as to take account of the changes facing european agriculture. i can assure you that every effort will be made in the 2013 cap reform to take better account of the current realities. of course, this will be limited to the resources that the council and parliament will make available for this policy. i hope that these resources will be directly linked to the ambitions that europeans and europe have for their agriculture. i do not think that renationalisation is a solution because in these outermost regions, i do not think that the states would have the means to ensure that specific measures are adopted if there were no common agricultural policy and no community approach. i therefore conclude here with the hope that, in the revision of the posei regulation, we will be able to make progress on some of the points that have been raised today and that, in general, we will be able to work as effectively on all decisions concerning the common agricultural policy as we have done on this regulation.
i am very pleased to inform mr alves and all of you that in eight or ten days' time there will be a major conference on the peripheral regions sponsored by the spanish presidency, and the president of parliament has appointed me to speak alongside mr durão barroso, mr rodríguez zapatero and the president of the government of the canary islands at the opening of that conference. i will certainly use the outcome of this debate and mr alves' report as a significant source of inspiration for the speech i shall be making at that time. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
(the sitting was suspended at 11.35 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
in writing. − my vote in favour of this important directive is due to the need to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, one of the areas with the greatest potential to contribute to the eu's overall objectives of increasing energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. the text, agreed by the european parliament and the council, states that by the end of 2020, all new buildings must be zero-energy buildings, producing as much energy as they consume. public buildings must set an example by complying with this regulation by 31 december 2013. the eu budget will finance part of the costs of the reforms. in addition, existing buildings will have to meet higher energy efficiency standards calculated by member states on the basis of a common framework established in the directive. the indicator for measuring the energy efficiency of buildings shall be included in advertisements for sale or rental in the media. another important innovation is the requirement to include smart meters and energy-saving control and management systems. the directive will be reviewed before 2017.
in writing. today's vote on eu rules for the energy performance of buildings is a major step forward in energy efficiency. however, we strongly regret that the legislation does not take into account the renovation requirements of existing buildings, which account for 40% of energy consumption and 36% of greenhouse gas emissions in europe. instead of implementing an ambitious energy efficiency policy by investing heavily in the renovation of buildings, the eu is focusing solely on new construction. it misses the opportunity to create millions of jobs, reduce our energy dependence on our neighbours and significantly fight climate change.
in writing. − i voted yes to these reports, as agreed also with the rapporteurs during our debates in the committee on civil liberties.
in writing. - the report, which i hope will be voted on by a large majority of honourable members, is an assessment of the progress made at european level in education and training policies during the period 2007-09. the report also addresses the challenges identified by the 'new skills for new jobs' initiative. the result shows us that there are still too many gaps in the training of our young people, both in preparing them for the new economic sectors and in enabling them to develop in an increasingly open and interdependent europe and world. strategy 2020 reflects the importance of training and education to successfully meet the social and economic challenges that the next decade will require of us. i would therefore like to stress the importance of preserving the appropriations for education and training policies in both the national and the union budgets in the context of the economic crisis in the eu.
in writing. − i am very glad that today we adopted the report led by my catalan colleague from the s&d group, maria badia i cutchet, on the very important issue of seeing education and training as key competences for a changing world.
in writing. − i am very glad of the fact that today the european parliament adopted its position in 2nd reading on the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing directive 86/613/eec. women play an essential role in sustaining self-employed businesses as owners and assisting spouses or life partners. i welcome parliament’s decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment between women and men for self-employed workers and their spouses as an important part of eu legislation.
in writing. − we, as greens, have abstained on the final vote of this report mainly because some of the key amendments proposed by the ppe, liberals and efd were adopted. in summary, all these amendments go in the direction of widening ‘made-in’ provisions.
in writing. − we, as greens, have voted in favour of the report by our colleague helga trüpel. all amendments tabled to the report were rejected. the estimates of the ep for the year 2011 are thus forwarded to the commission for inclusion in the draft budget proposal for 2011. as to the assistants' allowance second tranche increase for 2011, this means that the appropriations are currently entered in reserve pending a detailed financial statement of all related costs. parliament can come back to this issue at the first reading of the 2011 budget in september/october. as to the first tranche of the secretarial allowance increase for 2010, this will be voted tomorrow as part of the maňka report on the amending budget no 1/2010. here we are already in the budget procedure proper and the vote here will constitute the final result.
in writing. − i am very glad the amendment proposed by the socialists and democrats group has been rejected, which has allowed our group, greens/efa, to vote in favour of the rühle report.
in writing. − i voted enthusiastically in favour of franziska keller's report on policy coherence for development, and i am very glad it was adopted by a majority vote. i deplore the negative vote of the epp and ecr groups.
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam minister, commissioner, since dr christiaan barnard said that phrase 'jesus, dit kan werk' which in afrikaans means 'jesus, this is going to work' as he looked with disbelief at the beating of the heart he had just implanted, until today, 43 years have passed in which transplanting a useful organ from a human being who no longer needs it to another who needs it to live has become a daily practice. but it is no less true that this daily practice has not yet prevented the fact that there are now 56 000 europeans on the waiting list and that, of these, 12 may have died by the time this debate is over because they did not have the organ they need. and that is precisely the challenge for this parliament, which has to approve in this house both the directive, which dr mikolášik has explained so well, and the action plan. the aim is to provide broad, clear and effective channels for european solidarity so that no citizen of the union dies from lack of organs, and that this lack of organs is due to deficiencies in the transplant system. the increase in the life expectancy of europeans, the reduction in road accidents and the advances in science are certainly things to be celebrated, but they also make it necessary to make more organs available because there are more people who need them. the response of europeans when asked whether they would be willing to be a donor to save the life of a fellow citizen is highly positive. and if that willingness is not often directly reflected in the number of transplants that are carried out in each country, it is certainly because we need to improve our transplant system in essential aspects such as coordination, information, vocational training and citizen education in this area. examples of when coordination and training work optimally, the number of transplants per million increases, we have in some countries. and let me give you the example of spain, where a model of compulsory reference has been consolidated. the quality and safety guarantees in transplantation, together with the complementary, free and voluntary nature of in vivo transplants, which, as has been said, is established by the directive, are supplemented by the recommendations set out in the action plan on the need for continuing training of professionals, information and education of society in this field, without which it is difficult to work. all this forms the basis for optimising what we might call a european system of transplants, harmonized and shared by all the member states, as an instrument for achieving the objective we have set ourselves, which is at the moment to achieve the day when no european dies from lack of the organ he needs to live and that lack is due to systems which are not perfected. we cannot allow ourselves in the europe of the 21st century to have a situation where, because of a lack of coordination or of optimized systems, an organ is lost and another european human being cannot benefit from it. this is what is achieved by the adoption of this directive and this action plan, which is not a random effort. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight the good will and the good cooperation that has existed at all times both in the rapporteurs - in this case, mr mikolášik - and in the alternative rapporteurs, as well as the strong impetus that the spanish presidency - represented by the spanish minister for health and by dr matesanz, as director of the spanish national transplant organisation - has given to this directive and to the action plan, because we have been able to count on them at all times. i would like to thank the commissioner for his work and ask him to approve the report unanimously. i am grateful for the work as a member of parliament and i am grateful as a european for taking this step to save the lives of all the citizens of this union who may at any time need it.
madam president, commissioner, madam minister, i would first of all like to highlight the work of the rapporteurs, mr mikolášik and mr perelló, and all the efforts they have made to achieve the best possible compromise in favour of a transplant policy in the european union. i would also like to highlight the contribution of the spanish presidency and dr matesanz, director of the national transplant organisation of spain, because spain is currently the world leader in donations, with 34.4 donations per million inhabitants. this is entirely due to the continuous improvement of the organisation and the measures taken to raise public awareness of organ donation. the same thing must be achieved for the whole of the european union: increase the number of donations, ensure that all transplants are carried out within the same quality standards and, in addition, promote collaboration between all the member states of the union. we must also ensure that all donations are voluntary and unpaid, with the exceptions mentioned by commissioner dalli, in order to combat organ trafficking, which is entirely linked to organ shortages. the action plan can contribute to this by helping to address the shortage of organs and improving citizens' access to transplants. the solution reached for live donors is very important, since we cannot forget that live donations are complementary and have proved effective even when there is no genetic relationship between the donor and the recipient.
madam president, i want to congratulate you all on this initiative because it means improving the life expectancy of many people and making solidarity and fraternity more than just words. the basque country euskadi holds the world record for organ donation. in 2009, we had a rate of 38.5 percent donations per million people. thanks to this, we perform 60 kidney transplants and 30 liver transplants per million inhabitants annually. in the united states, the figures are 54.7% and 21.4%; in europe, 35.1% and 13.4%; and in spain, 48.8% and 24.6%. the success is due to the protocol applied in hospitals to attract donations and to a track record of organisation and awareness-raising - the two ideas to be pursued - as well as to the work begun as early as 1986 with the creation of the regional transplant coordination system: another example of how regions can make their contribution to europe.
madam president, madam minister, allow me to begin by saying that i come from cantabria, a small spanish region with a rate of 61 donations per million inhabitants, the highest in spain and europe. i would like to congratulate mr perelló and mr mikolášik on this report and for supporting this proposal for a directive which is designed to respond to the shortage of organs in the european union. the success of the spanish case is a model that can be useful for the rest of the european union with elements such as the competent national authorities, the traceability of organs or donations between living people. i would also like to congratulate the spanish presidency on its strong support for this issue as one of its priorities. ladies and gentlemen, you know that almost 56 000 patients are currently on waiting lists. donation rates and organ availability vary considerably across european countries. the lack of organs is a key factor affecting transplant programs. the good practices that can be achieved yield much greater benefits in some member states than in others. that is why - and i end by saying this - the adoption of this report is essential to improve the situation in all the member states.
acting president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the political groups and all the speakers for their support and constructive tone and to express my satisfaction that this agreement we are reaching today, in this debate, is the culmination of a process. beyond the difficulty of legislating technical aspects which may vary with scientific developments, we have had to face the practical difficulties of implementing the lisbon treaty in this semester. the spanish presidency would therefore like to express its sincere thanks to all the european institutions - the parliament, the commission and the council of the union - and also to all the member states for their cooperation in this exercise of flexibility and adaptation, on the one hand, and of responsibility and consensus expressed this afternoon, on the other. ladies and gentlemen, we have succeeded in making the union more effective and relevant to the citizens and we should be pleased about that. but they also know that the effort does not end with the adoption of that directive. on the contrary, we must continue to work to maintain, in its transposition, the spirit of protecting the health of citizens that we have pursued and achieved. we must continue to work to generate more solidarity and maintain the social value sought by all those who have participated in its creation and implementation. we also have a lot of work to do in the context of the action plan, which offers us a unique opportunity for continuous learning, adaptation and improvement. i thank all the groups for their support, for their tone, for their constructive attitude. together we'll make it. we've already got it.
member of the commission. − madam president, following the very good collaboration between the commission, parliament and council, i am convinced that we have now reached agreement on all the key issues. i would like to again congratulate and thank dr mikolášik and mr perello rodriguez for their contribution. i believe that by ensuring high quality and safety standards for human organs the proposed directive will be of great benefit to european patients. the directive will provide a comparable safety standard across the union and increased trust in transplantation systems. i am convinced that the proposed directive strikes the right balance between citizens’ data protection and organ traceability, and indirectly contributes to the fight against organ trafficking. this is not the solution to all the problems in the area of organ transplantation; this directive provides the framework, clarifies the boundaries of responsibilities and sets some standards. however, more needs to be done in the area of organising our hospitals, collecting and disseminating information, proper characterisation of organs and action against illegal trafficking. in the latter context, traceability will go some way to redress this, but this depends on the enforcement exercised in member states. member states are being given a great deal of flexibility, and we hope that all member states will give this issue the importance it deserves. the competent authorities that they need to set up should be adequately equipped and resourced to ensure proper data collection and control, traceability, supervised standards, characterisation of organs and in transplantation and conduct effective vigilance to report adverse events and reactions which will help all of us to minimise risk in the future. president, minister-in-office of the council, honourable members, from the contributions of the honourable members during this debate it is evident that the compromise text which is on the table today responds to everybody’s concerns. thank you for your input, your cooperation and your support. (com(2008)0818 – c6-0480/2008 – 2008/0238(cod)) rapporteur: mr miroslav mikolasik (epp/ed) amendments: directly acceptable: amendment 106 (text as a whole, block no 1, compromise amendment). the commission is in favour of the adoption of the compromise text by the co-legislators
the rapporteur. - madam president, the fact that, at a time of difficulty and crisis such as those which europe and the world are going through, this parliament was able to adopt the first directive at first reading after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon speaks volumes about the sensitivity of this parliament, reinforces confidence in democratic institutions and suggests that members of this house want to move forward and progress at the same pace as science and with the same degree of will and solidarity as european society. i do not know whether we have done everything too well or whether we could have done something else, but i do want to clear up any doubts that may have been raised. what i am quite sure of is that if we comply with everything we are going to pass in this house, we will be giving more life and we will be preventing the union from being able to commit any crime of organ trafficking, as it can be committed anywhere else on the planet, which is not the case at all in the european union. so if any of those doubts have been left in the mind of someone - and have been said by other colleagues - i want to clear them up. that was not our job. we have tried to respect the conscience of each individual, the ethical standards, the moral standards, without losing sight of the fundamental objective: that not a single european should be left without a transplant in order to live, because we can achieve more and therefore less organ trafficking. i therefore conclude that i do not know whether our work has saved all consciences, but i am fully convinced that we will save many lives. and that was our job and that's what we did.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that there are many important days in this house, but i sincerely believe that since the lisbon treaty was adopted on 1 december 2009, the mandate for the european union to join the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the great news in the process of european integration and construction. i believe that we are therefore witnessing the culmination of an old aspiration which is part of the historical fabric of european construction, because human dignity, human rights, democracy, the rule of law are part of the dna of what has been, to a large extent, the historical fabric of european construction. this report, which we shall be adopting tomorrow, is the fulfilment of the mandate which the european union has had since the treaty of lisbon imposed this accession. and i would like to sum up the content of this report around three big ideas. on the one hand, i would like to remind you that it is not just the member states that protect human rights, but that it is now the european union - with its new legal personality under the treaty of lisbon - that it is community law and the development of the community state that can be achieved by the member states, that it is the principles of the european convention that are subject to a court outside the union and the member states that ensures, always and everywhere, that those principles are respected. secondly, the introduction of a new law and a new court for european citizenship, for european citizens: the right of citizens to have recourse to this new court to ensure that the rights established by the convention are respected in relation to the european union or to the member states when they develop community law. the activities of the european union's foreign policy, the police, security beyond our borders, international cooperation are also subject to the principles of the european convention on human rights. what's this all about? it is a great step forward, historically speaking, in the process of integration, in the construction of the most essential notion of the european idea, which, as we said before, meets the requirements of european citizenship and human dignity. it also means strengthening the european system for the protection of fundamental rights, because, together with the charter of rights and the treaty of lisbon, it establishes a universe, a framework of legal protection that is almost perfect and, of course, the most advanced in the world. it also strengthens the union's credibility vis-à-vis third countries, from which the european union has always demanded respect for human rights in its bilateral relations. this report deals with institutional and legal aspects which i shall not go into. what i want to stress is that a procedure is now being initiated here, because the commission - and i would like to thank mrs reding for the speed with which they approved the negotiating mandate, and the european council, which will do so shortly - has already, together with this report which has been prepared jointly by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on foreign affairs - and i would like to thank mrs gál and mr preda for their cooperation from these committees - an orientation, a negotiating framework, which will enable a negotiation to take place that will enable this parliament to return to approving that treaty and will enable the countries to ratify accession to the european convention. a great news, i think, ladies and gentlemen.
madam president, more than 20 years ago - 23 years ago - i had the good fortune to witness in the other palace the signing of an agreement between the then president of the european commission, jacques delors, and the secretary-general of the council of europe, marcelino oreja, for the then european communities to accede to the european convention for the protection of human rights. 23 years ago! this reminds me of the answer given by the poet heinrich heine when asked, "where would you like to die?" and he said, "in england, because everything happens 100 years behind schedule there". and following some of the speeches we have heard, 200 years late, madam president. although i am confident that mr duff's influence in the new liberal-conservative coalition government will improve this situation. so, madam president, my group, the group of the european people's party, has been in favour of this accession for a long time and we warmly welcome the great report by mr jauregui. it is his first report and i am sure it will not be his last. and we do this because we feel that this is increasing the guarantees for citizens, because what we are giving is more guarantees to people that the legislation of the european union applied by the member states, that the acts of the european union, are in accordance with that table of rights recognized in the european convention for the protection of human rights. this report opens the way to the solution of many of the legal technical problems which are going to arise; because it must not be forgotten that the convention was intended to be ratified and applied by member states. and the european union - despite the propaganda from some quarters of this house - is not a state or a superstate, it is an international organisation, and therefore it is difficult to acclimatise an international organisation to something made for states. mrs giannakou, who has been our shadow rapporteur and who has done a great deal of work, for which i am very grateful, will speak on the specific issues. i now only want to make the same vows as vice-president reding has made so that the council - my friend diego lópez garrido will surely see to it - will quickly give a mandate to the commission to negotiate and we can soon celebrate in this house, madam president, the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jauregui, and the other rapporteurs who have worked on this report. i would like to add that, just as we have dealt with the economic crisis in monetary union during this year of the european parliament's term of office, this is the time to say that europe will be made not of an internal market or a single currency but of citizens. and the rights of citizens are reinforced by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the bill of rights which must take account of the political and civic dimension of the construction of europe. and it reinforces the rights of citizenship by the mandate contained in article 6 of the treaty on european union to accede to the european convention on human rights. such accession shall not affect any of the fundamental rights which european citizens are guaranteed by the laws of the member states by virtue of their being nationals of those member states. on the contrary, it multiplies, strengthens and increases the rights which belong to all of us together as participants and subjects in a common project. and i want to emphasize, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, that we have dealt with all the problems - which will be - of embedding the european convention on human rights within that shared culture of strengthening and guaranteeing rights and citizenship. we have organized very fruitful visits to the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights and we have called for a third conference on 21 june, which will bring together leading experts and judges from the european court of human rights and the court of justice of the european union to agree on a pre-emptive response to the judicial guarantee of citizens' rights. a british jurist, mr hart, wrote that there are no rights without judicial guarantees, no judicial guarantees without judges, just as there can be no europe without citizens and no european citizens if they are not aware that the construction of europe makes us grow and reinforces the fundamental rights that already belong to us as members of the member states of the european union.
madam president, two points. firstly, the articles in the charter of fundamental rights which are also in the european convention on human rights are the same and mean the same thing: articles 52 and 53 of the charter; therefore, there is no contradiction. secondly, the jurisdiction of the strasbourg court is supranational. if anyone wishes to bring an action before this court against a decision of the european union or the application of community law, he must first refer the matter to the court of justice of luxembourg for a preliminary ruling. i understand that the europe-haters always want to vote against europe, but they should read, at least as a parliamentary courtesy, mr jauregui's report, where everything is clearly stated.
acting president of the council. - madam president, on the first point on the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and the commission once again on the rapid presentation of the draft negotiating mandate and also welcome the intervention of mr andrew duff, who made it quite clear that the government that has been established in the united kingdom between the conservatives and the liberals is absolutely in favour of the european union signing the european convention on human rights and therefore complying with the treaty of lisbon. but there have been other compatriots of mr duff who have said exactly the opposite: representatives of the group of the european conservatives and reformists and the representative of the europe of freedom and democracy group - in this case, he is not british - as well as mrs sinclaire and later mrs morvai, who said quite clearly: 'why does the european union need to sign the european convention on human rights if the member states are already parties to it?' but it turns out that the member states have transferred some of their competences and powers to the european union - they are not exercised by those states, they are exercised by the european union - and the european union could, theoretically, violate the european convention on human rights. except that the european union is considered to have no power, no competence at all. but it does have powers and competences that have been transferred by the states. it is not enough for the member states to have signed the convention, the union must also sign it in order to achieve this protection of human rights throughout the european union. i do not understand how people like the representatives of these two groups i have mentioned, who have shown their clear euroscepticism, can refuse to have supranational control over the european union. it is absolutely contradictory that someone who wants the european union to be controlled or who thinks that everything the european union does is bad or that there are some damned bureaucrats who do everything very badly should refuse to have supranational control over the european union. it's a completely contradictory thing. there will be other reasons that have to do with human rights or that have to do with an international organization that defends human rights is more legitimate, is stronger, is more solid. other reasons, but not the ones they're raising. i think the need for such a signature is very clear, and with the speed with which the commission has already begun to act. and as mr méndez de vigo has said, the commission has acted quickly and the council must act quickly too. i am sure that the mandate to start the negotiations will be approved on 4 june at the justice and home affairs council meeting in brussels and you can therefore rest assured in that respect. as regards the subject of the international criminal court, i think the review conference is a very important meeting. it is a very important meeting at which the presidency - in this case, i speak on behalf of the president-in-office of the council - will be present and will state and reaffirm very clearly that the member states have to cooperate with the international criminal court, that the member states, naturally on the basis of the principle of complementarity, which is a basic principle of the functioning of the international criminal court, will work along these lines. i agree with one of the important objectives of this conference, which is the introduction of the crime of aggression, with the removal from the rome statute of the possibility of delaying the handover of possible or hypothetical war criminals by seven years, and with the fact that it is being discussed - this is a proposal that belgium has made specifically - whether the use of certain weapons in conflicts may in itself constitute a war crime. in any event, the presidency will make a statement in support of the criminal court and will also make an assessment of what this criminal court has meant. in addition, many members of the european parliament will be at the kampala conference in these debates. i believe that this is a very important conference, with great political, symbolic, legal and legal significance; there will be decisions affecting legal texts. and it is certainly very gratifying that the european parliament has raised this debate today, which has allowed us to reaffirm our common values, which has also allowed us to remember that, in the end, when we talk about the international criminal court, we are talking about people who have suffered the atrocities that the rome statute seeks to prosecute and that, in the final analysis, it is about fighting impunity, making it clear that in the 21st century there is no place for impunity.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the charter of fundamental rights and the convention on human rights are extraordinary texts. they are the basis of the values on which we have been building our society and our european union. i think they are much too important and much too historical to give way to party political polemics. i must say that i am very proud indeed that, at this moment in the construction of the european union, we can go ahead by putting the charter of fundamental rights into practice and by acceding to the convention on human rights. when i hear what your rapporteur, diego lópez garrido, and your co-rapporteurs, cristian dan preda and kinga gál, have said in your name in this parliament, i know that you are also very conscious about the historical task which is now in our hands. the added value of the accession has been very well explained in those texts and in the contributions of many of the members. the member states have all signed up to the convention but they have also – as the minister-in-office of the council just explained – transferred substantial competences to the european union. it is therefore normal that the european union, when it acts as a european union, will be subject to the same external control of the specialised court on human rights as are the member states. to give one very concrete example, there could be a decision of the european commission against an industry in the area of competition law which could be potentially challenged directly before the court in strasbourg, which is something that is difficult to do today. as you have already pointed out, there will be a lot of very concrete examples: concrete examples which will help the citizens because – and this is something new – they will now have a double guarantee. the european court of justice in luxembourg will judge on the basis of the charter of fundamental rights, which by the way is binding for all member states. that should be clearly stated once and for all. i cannot understand how somebody who has an elected mandate and has been elected by citizens can call into question the rights of those citizens. it is better for citizens to have twice the rights than to have zero rights. here we are giving them twice the rights, and that is what europe is about. europe is about rights for european citizens and i am very proud that this house is standing for those rights. yes, we will now have the bills of rights where the citizens will know that they can go to the courts in order to have their rights taken seriously. the question of whether or not we shall now be part of the convention on human rights is not a question anymore because article 6 of the treaty obliges the eu to accede to the european convention on human rights. so i do not think we should discuss this any further because that is simply done. we should also know that this accession will leave the position of the individual member states, vis-à-vis the convention, completely unaffected as long as there is no european law at stake. this will continue to be the case. the individual relationship between a member state and the convention will stay exactly the same as it is. now there will be supplementary guarantees concerning the eu law. of course the issue of the risk of conflicting jurisprudence has to be analysed. it is being analysed and i am grateful to the rapporteur who has taken this issue on board. we have so far seen that these conflicts are considered to be minimal because the convention is already part of the norms which the european court of justice in luxembourg takes into account today and the convention will operate as a minimum standard. the commission expects case-law of strasbourg and of luxembourg to develop harmoniously and converge in the coming years. i now move to more specific questions. on litigation: that is not an issue for the european court of human rights or of the european court of justice. for the moment that is an issue for the british system of litigation, and i have already started to discuss this with the british government to see if they could review this system of litigation, which can, in certain cases, when it comes to the freedom of the press for instance, become very harmful indeed. the european parliament has so far, under the leadership of its rapporteurs, done very good work. i count on parliament to continue to participate in a process which will certainly be a difficult process, a long process, where we have to solve the technical problems – and technical problems can become very political indeed – so i count on parliament to continue to participate in this very difficult task. as for relations between the european parliament and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, i leave that in the hands of parliament. if you need a helping hand i will be there to help you in that respect, but it is a matter for the parliamentarians themselves to see that they find a common ground and i believe that it should not be that difficult. concerning the icc, this parliament has already received the prosecutor mr moreno-ocampo and the president of the court, mr song. i think this was a very strong political signal from the european parliament that parliament is taking seriously human rights not only within europe, but also outside europe. we also believe that the kampala conference is the most important international conference devoted to international justice in a decade. we have to make it count. there again i count on parliament also because i know that members will be present and will be speaking up in kampala. we know that the eu has played and will play an important role by integrating the outcomes of the conference into its policies on international justice, on its assistance to third states and, most of all, into all the negotiations which will take place in the coming months and years. in particular, we will continue to support national capacity-building in order to strengthen and enable national jurisdictions to conduct credible and effective national investigations and trials of rome statute crimes. our policy in this respect remains unchanged and undiminished, but we now have a new tool, and the new tool is the lisbon treaty, which gives us a new capacity to be more consistent and more effective in our support to the court. in line with the encouragement by parliament and expressed in the resolution and during the debate, the high representative/vice-president and her services will continue resolutely to promote universal accession to the rome statute. we will do that systematically in all our discussions with partners outside of europe. there were two very specific questions which i would like to answer briefly. the first was whether an arrest warrant against president al-bashir is a part of the solution or part of the problem. the commission clearly sees this as part of a long-term solution because this arrest warrant shows that, with the establishment of the court, justice has become imminent. whoever the person is, even if this person is a head of state, and even if this arrest warrant is not immediately enforced it will not disappear because the icc is a permanent court, so let me assure you that the eu will continue to call on sudan to cooperate fully with the court. on the question of whether the commission will present amendments in the kampala meeting, here the answer is ‘no’ because the eu, as such, is not a party – it is the member states who will negotiate the amendments. however, the commission will play an active role in the stock-taking part of the conference, and we count fully on the spanish presidency to lead the european nations so that their voice will make a big difference in this conference.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to express my gratitude to all those who have spoken, because they have all, by a large majority, almost unanimously, expressed a very favourable position on the accession agreement which we are going to vote on tomorrow. i would like to thank mrs reding in particular for giving us the opportunity to continue working together because, indeed, a very complex negotiation is coming and i think that this parliament has to be very close to that negotiation. i would like to answer a few questions and make some clarifications very quickly. the accession is not a symbolic act, ladies and gentlemen, it has legal value. some wonder what it does, what it adds. i'll give you an example. let us say that a competition for european union officials discriminates against lawyers in hungary, let us say, for some technical reason or whatever. where do lawyers in hungary turn? the court of justice. what does membership add? the possibility for such lawyers to have recourse, if their right to equality has not been recognised by the court of justice, to the strasbourg court. it is a new court, it is a new opportunity to guarantee fundamental human rights, for example, that of equality. the contribution of this fact is therefore clear, not symbolically but legally. two points, your honour. the members of parliament have expressed the wish that the negotiation should not be limited to accession to the european convention on human rights, but should incorporate the protocols which the convention has been building up over the years, especially those relating to the rights recognised by the charter of fundamental rights, as this would effectively give an equivalence between the two documents. and finally, parliament is also called upon to join the bodies and bodies of the convention and the council of europe, because this will allow for recognition of the universal system of protection of human rights, including the european social charter of turin.
madam president, we're talking about over 360 shares in five years. in my view, the presentation of the action plan should have been more parliamentary in nature, giving members the opportunity to debate and, above all, to amend the proposals contained in it. some examples are: the fight against radicalisation, the monitoring of terrorist financing and the possibility of creating a european tftp programme, the coordination of sitcen, europol and eurojust in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the fight against the use of the internet for terrorist purposes, the amendment of the frontex regulation, the feasibility of creating a european border guard system. what i just said and much more that's been said. these are such important issues that they should have been dealt with in another parliamentary format. it also called for a single action to be taken in the plan on the protection of victims of crime: the creation of a global instrument for the protection of victims, including victims of terrorism. in my view - and this would be an amendment which i could not table for regulatory reasons - the creation of a special instrument for the protection of victims of terrorism should be - i repeat - an indispensable and priority objective of the european union. finally, mrs reding, i would like to know, with regard to europol, why a council decision is to be replaced by a europol regulation in the 2013 time horizon.
madam president, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i was a co-author, together with mr casini and mr berlinguer, of the resolution voted on last november on the stockholm programme. and i would like to stress that i made it clear at the time that the stockholm programme, in the area of the area of freedom, security and justice, was not going to simplify the life of this parliament, but on the contrary, was going to make it much more demanding. i would like to point out that some of the demands contained in the resolution that was adopted have not been reflected in a precise wording in the action plan proposed by the commission. i therefore acknowledge the limitations of the parliamentary debate and of parliamentary intervention in the debate on the action plan, but i would point out that paragraphs 148 to 150 of the parliamentary resolution contained some precise indications with regard to matters of great importance. many of them have come to light, from victim protection to the institutions and agencies related to schengen, europol, eurojust, frontex and the european asylum support office and their new pending regulations, but also some regulations on substantive and fundamental issues, such as data protection and the non-discrimination clause. data protection in its interplay with security has certainly been discussed in this parliament, particularly in the debate on the terrorist financing tracking programme (tftp), and it has highlighted the need for europe to also make its own commitment to a proper balance between security and privacy. but the really important thing is that the commission now has five years of work ahead of it to implement, step by step, each of the elements of the stockholm programme action plan and so i invite it to really work very hard with this parliament to account for all those commitments related to paragraphs 148 to 150 of the resolution, bearing in mind that if the commission does not work diligently and in close cooperation with this european parliament, this european parliament will be watching and will make proposals. and of course it will also work with the council, which can take initiatives which may merit the attention and consideration of this parliament.
(the president cut off the microphone) i have the impression that a europe in which borders have disappeared and in which there is increasingly more transnational crime requires more ambition in terms of the response to the problem of transnational crime. i believe that greater ambition is lacking in the area of police coordination of europol, in the area of judicial coordination of eurojust, in relation to the european prosecutor, in the area of technical homologation of criminal investigations, in the area of unification of criminal procedural law, in the area of approximation of the respective criminal law. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is too little ambition and too much national resistance, and i urge you, especially the council, to overcome the tendency of countries to be sovereign, to unify our criminal systems, in order to combat effectively insecurity and supranational crime.
madam president, thank you for your presence, mr kallas, and for your work in these difficult days. this debate, ladies and gentlemen, is inevitable and i believe, unfortunately, not definitive. i would spare the honourable members the repetition of the black figures of the grave event and the red figures it has produced in the economy. i just want to remember the people who were hurt. the passengers. ten million people were left without flights and without guidance on what to do. the passenger's helplessness has been reflected beyond the provisions of directives and regulations. the exclusion of liability in contracts for reasons of catastrophe or force majeure raises the question of the need for a consortium fund to deal with the consequences of a global catastrophe such as that caused by the volcano. the airlines. iata estimates that they lost 1.7 billion euros globally. the eea estimates the loss at €850 million at european level. they just needed this slap to accentuate a galloping crisis that threatens to shut down many airlines. the tourism. the consequences for tourism have been devastating: on the one hand, the cancellation of contracts that had been made in advance with which they occur in this field and, on the other hand, the insecurity, which has produced a change in the normal tendencies of contract forecasting. the diagnosis, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. the conclusion is unequivocal: the european institutions are not equipped with the instruments to deal effectively with a crisis of this magnitude. and the criticism. because criticism is necessary and inevitable, self-criticism, if necessary. no one can be absolved of responsibility because all the actors acted badly, late and inefficiently and sometimes not through their fault. the member states, because decisions were within their competence, were left powerless. the european institutions, because they took four long days to react and because their reaction, invoking security as a priority value, unfortunately did not produce calm but paralysis. the commission's reply. the commission is today reiterating the measures it announced to us. i think these are reasonable measures, but there is no concrete timeframe for their implementation. this isn't about the past. the threat of blockage is still lurking today and it is worrying that we are dependent on air currents. i know you can't fight the elements. that's what a famous spanish sailor said about a great naval battle we lost. the crisis will not help us to take action. states will be reluctant to implement resources. but if we are healers, this volcano can do more damage to the european economy than the forecasts that are handled. i ask the commission to be decisive. and to the council, to address the need for urgent decisions. and to all of us, let us be generous with the implementation of alternative issues to alleviate the institutional handicaps. i do not blame the commission or the council, but we must recognize the diagnosis that the institutions have not been able, in the terms in which they exist, to solve a crisis of this magnitude and this dimension.
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner kallas for his activity over the past few days and to point out that the crisis of the blockade of european mobility caused by the ash from the icelandic volcano, which only yesterday caused new closures in the european area in national areas of ireland or the united kingdom, as well as the two extraordinary councils convened by the spanish presidency on the proposal of the commission, have taught us several things. firstly, that this crisis has affected the whole sector, not just the airlines but also the airports, and in this respect we also congratulate the commission on its comprehensive approach to considering consequences and aid. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we therefore welcome this approach taken by the commission. secondly, if we knew that the single sky was necessary, we now know that it is urgent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the sesar programme to include the following areas: could the commission tell us what reservations or reservations it noted at the council meeting on 4 may? we need to know. we also have the impression that some member states are opening up space more than others, and that is not good in a sector as competitive as aviation. in addition, although parliament has been giving priority to passenger rights, and this has been reiterated here, with strong reservations on the part of the council, the need to review the application of these rights has now become clear. we need the commission to be ruthless with the low-cost airlines that have sown confusion by lying to passengers and to the public. the necessary sanctioning procedures must of course be followed. i would also ask you, commissioner, to implement a pilot project proposed by my group for the 2010 budget, namely the establishment of consumer offices at airports, which would facilitate the timely measures needed for passengers and consumers in the face of the general confusion. if some of us, on the other hand, were already campaigning for rail networks, for transeuropean networks, as an alternative to modes with a greater impact, and we have shown this in spain with the ave, for example between barcelona and madrid, we now know that it is urgent to build a secondary alternative system of mobility definitively, as is foreseeably done in the electricity and telecommunications networks. the review of the transeuropean networks in the light of the financial perspective must therefore be more ambitious.
madam president, i am going to talk about tourism, a sector which is fundamental to the canary islands, which receive some 12 million tourists a year. because if there's one thing tourism needs, it's certainty. and situations like the one we have seen - and which can continue to be repeated - have dramatic consequences for this strategic sector for the canary islands. the losses have not been just for airlines, airports or tour operators: hotels, car rental companies, restaurants, services in general, have suffered enormous damage. from 15 to 23 april alone, 313 818 airline tickets were cancelled in the canary islands, with losses of around €57.3 million as a result of the halt in tourist arrivals. and this, of course, is important. immediate measures are needed when the event occurs, such as the opening of airports at night without additional cost and the proper care of citizens, passengers, but also compensation. i am not going to criticise what was done or not done and whether the crisis was handled well. it's just worth knowing that it can happen again and that you have to be prepared for it.
madam president, i'm not the only one, but thank you. i just wanted to add that we need to be able to use all available technologies extensively for ash measurement. in fact, a few days after the closures, on a visit to astrium in toulouse, we were informed of a very detailed system of information on the composition of the atmosphere via a network of satellites and we are not clear whether this existing systematic information, which comes from a european company such as eads, was used. could the commissioner tell us whether it has been used or whether it is to be used?
mr president, it was necessary to meet in the face of the abyss and the economic collapse so that the heads of state and government would understand that the way forward is not more nationalism but more europe. this is the direction in which some of the measures adopted are heading, such as the decline in the right of veto in the european council or the creation of a european public treasury. finally, though belatedly, we have learned that we are all sailing in the same boat and that it is useless to attend to individual situations and, moreover, to do so in an improvised way. but i wonder whether this attitude is a parenthesis or, on the contrary, the beginning of a real european economic government, because what is left, ladies and gentlemen, is governance, and what is missing is genuine government, if we are to be faithful to the will of the founding fathers. that is why we must, from this parliament, push forward all those reforms which are aimed at strengthening europe and making budgetary and fiscal discipline a reality, forgetting, by the way, nostalgic sovereignty. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
mr president, the current parliamentary term began a year ago and there has not been a single sitting in which we have not discussed the crisis. and it is true that we have nothing more important to do than to talk about a crisis that has destroyed 20 million jobs in europe. but it's very important that we get the object right, because a wrongly stated equation is an equation of impossible resolution. the crisis is not the 'euro crisis in greece'. it is a crisis which has brought to light three intolerable asymmetries which must be addressed. the first is the asymmetry between the real and the financial economy. the second is the asymmetry in monetary union and the absence of a fiscal, budgetary and economic policy union that is commensurate with the requirements of monetary union. and thirdly, the virulence of the crisis and its challenges and, nevertheless, the exasperating slowness of the response and decision-making mechanisms that characterize the european union. that is why we are late in responding to all those millions of unemployed people who are watching us and we are raising difficulties that do not arise in other countries facing the crisis with greater decision-making capacity. we have seen extraordinary decisions at the same time: the commission communication, the extraordinary decisions of the council of ministers last weekend and, of course, strategy 2020. but these extraordinary measures are not free, they are accompanied by strong demands, restrictions and threats of sanctions against countries which are not able to restrict spending and therefore may also compromise growth. yesterday we were discussing here in the european parliament the european convention on human rights and the stockholm programme action plan. and we had the opportunity to recall that europe is not made only of the internal market or monetary union, it is not made mainly of that, but of citizenship, and so this is the moment to recall, once again, that these millions of european citizens are expressing their dissatisfaction with this europe that we are offering them, with this europe that expresses more threats and sanctions to countries that do not comply than incentives to a growth model that is able to bring them back to employment, to social cohesion and to the fight against poverty. without this europe of the people, this crisis will be an impossible crisis to resolve.
mr president, i believe that the worst crisis we can suffer is not only the one we are suffering today, but the one we will suffer if we are not able to draw the appropriate political lessons from what is happening to us. we have lived beyond our means, especially in some countries. we've moved away from the real economy and embraced the fictional economy, in our public accounts and, at the same time, in our family and private lives. we have not been able to understand that, as in any living organism, growing is not the same as getting fat. growth requires effort and proportion, whereas that process of getting fat is disproportionate and imbalanced to the effort we put forth and the well-being we enjoy. this crisis is dynamic. the picture of the crisis a few months ago was different, completely different, from today. and the one in a few months' time is going to be radically different from today. this crisis was economic and financial and will have an increasingly social dimension, of social conflict and, therefore, at this stage, before the conflict is social, we who are engaged in politics must know that our main crisis is a crisis of confidence. it's not just the euro crisis. let's analyze all the political and electoral processes in these months. there is a crisis of confidence and this means that what we have to ask ourselves is what we have to change, what is the change in attitude, what is the change in political, institutional, personal attitude, that we have to develop. and in that sense, this european parliament, instead of thinking of others, of other institutions, the question that has to be asked is what is its contribution to a change of institutional and political attitude in this house. and i dare say that today, having heard many reasons for the crisis -- bureaucracy, agencies, governments -- there are two issues where we need to change. firstly, europe demands a minimum of cohesion from this parliament: it cannot be allowed to bleed into such a profound debate on two conceptions of european society. and second, we have to dare to tell the truth about what's happening to us.
before proceeding to the vote, i should like to inform you that at its meeting on 12 may the conference of presidents decided, in accordance with rule 134, to convene an extraordinary session on wednesday 23 june from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. at that meeting, the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, will have the opportunity to inform parliament of the conclusions of the european council meeting to be held on 17 june, in accordance with article 15 of the treaty on european union. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
mr atkins, we take good note of your remark or protest or whatever it is.
the presidency takes note and acts accordingly. but taking notes is a preliminary. after taking note, you act accordingly.
i am pleased to inform you that a delegation from the kuwaiti national assembly is present in the chamber in our official gallery. we warmly welcome the delegation from kuwait. (applause) it is chaired by mr ali al-debaqbasi and he has come to strasbourg to meet members of our house. relations between the union and the gulf cooperation council, which is chaired this year by kuwait, are very important to our parliament. we are convinced that a fruitful dialogue between the european parliament and the parliaments of the gulf cooperation council countries will help to strengthen cooperation between the union and the gulf cooperation council and thus promote the speedy and successful conclusion of the negotiations for the free trade agreement. we therefore wish mr al-debaqbasi and his colleagues a fruitful stay with us.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr. lehne, you read my mind, because i was going to do exactly what you guessed. - the fourth amendment:
before i vote, i must inform you that the presidency considers amendment no 2 to be incompatible with the treaty on the functioning of the european union and therefore declares amendment no 2 inadmissible. article 229 of the tfeu provides that the european parliament, and i quote, 'shall meet without prior call on the second tuesday in march'. the conference of presidents has adopted a proposal for a calendar for 2011 including a part-session from 7 to 10 march, thus respecting article 229 tfeu. amendment no 2 proposes that this part-session be postponed until the following week. if parliament were to adopt this amendment, it would be in breach of article 229. it is therefore declared inadmissible. - before the vote on amendment no 3:
mr lehne, this amendment raises a question which can typically be interpreted. the rules of procedure of the house provide that in such cases the final word on the interpretation to be applied is the presidency and the presidency has decided, for the reasons i have explained to you, to declare amendment no 2 inadmissible on the grounds that it infringes article 229 of the tfeu. of course, any other interpretation is acceptable, but as the presidency has to decide, it has decided.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, thrombin is an additive which can be used to glue meat because there is no food safety or technological problem with its use and it is in fact already used in some countries. the proposal to amend the annex says that meat treated with thrombin can be sold pre-packaged and labelled, so that there is no deception of the consumer, which is what the resolution is based on. in any case, i would like to ask the commissioner whether the european commission can commit itself to ensuring that products containing thrombin cannot be considered as imitations by means of appropriate labelling, especially in the context of the current examination of the proposal for a regulation on food information to consumers.
well, mr posselt, the point is that this matter has already been voted on and therefore we cannot reopen it. in any case, you can be sure that all these amendments to the timetable have been carefully examined by the presidency.
it is not that we are at that point now, mr schlyter, we are at the explanations of vote. and we are in the explanations of vote on the amending budget. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
in writing. - i voted in favour of the podimata report because i believe that parliament and in particular the s&d group have made very important progress on a directive which is crucial to achieving the energy efficiency target we have set ourselves. we have not only succeeded in maintaining the a-g scale, which is known and accepted by european consumers, but also in making it compulsory to refer to the energy label of the household appliance whenever price information is displayed in advertising or promotional material. another important point introduced by parliament is the obligation on the commission to draw up a priority list of energy-related products, including some construction products, which may be subject to subsequent measures. finally, given the leading role to be played by the public sector, it seems to me that it is essential that in public procurement procedures administrations should purchase products belonging to the highest energy efficiency class.
in writing. − i have signed and voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the tranche, together with 16 other meps from my group. the reason is that i think it is of utmost importance to show that there is a substantial group of meps that do not agree with the increase of the assistance allowance in these times of economic crisis. at the final vote, however, i voted in favour of the manka report, amending parliament’s budget for 2010.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report because i agree with the fact that we need to postpone the discharge decision until october.
in writing. − i have supported the report lead by our colleague mikolášik on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation as one very urgent measure to improve the life expectation of more than 60 000 people in europe waiting for a transplant. i hope this will make the possibility of getting an organ easier and safer.
in writing. − i enthusiastically supported the amendment proposing to reduce the two september part-sessions to one. i am a big supporter of the idea of reducing the two ep seats to one, based in brussels. thus, i support any initiative willing to get rid of the strasbourg seat.
in writing. i am very pleased with today's vote to ban thrombin. this is a victory for the consumer. the problem with thrombin is not that it is dangerous, although there are health uncertainties, but that it is misleading. it is impossible, without warning, to tell with the naked eye the difference between a piece of meat and another clumped with thrombin. that is extremely misleading. the use of thrombin is tantamount to putting on the market a kind of prefabricated, artificial meat. i'm not sure what the consumer's interest is in this. however, in some member states, thrombin is used without the consumer being informed. we have to stop wanting to lie to him or trying to disguise the truth. this is not how the industry will regain the trust of consumers.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate my socialist colleague, mr perelló rodríguez, on the report we have just voted on. the action plan should enable the 60,000 people who are currently waiting for an organ to see their life expectancy significantly increased. it is also important to highlight the leading position of the spanish health sector in this area, which has been recognised by all the rapporteurs and groups.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption today of the report by mr jáuregui on the eu's accession to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i am concerned that some of my euro-phobia-ridden colleagues are still insisting that this measure is unnecessary, when i believe that this accession is a better guarantee for the protection of human rights, also within the eu.
in writing. − i enthusiastically voted in favour of the resolution and i am especially glad that the oral amendment by my colleague had been adopted, i.e. to include ‘indigenous people’ in the list of groups that need special attention.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the contributions of the alternative rapporteurs and their assistants, the secretariat of the committee on regional development, the secretariats of the political groups, as well as the cooperation of the dg regio and the employment dg of the european commission, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the trade unions and the associations and networks of european regions. in the course of preparing this report, i have held meetings with a number of regional and institutional associations, in particular the committee of the regions, the conference of peripheral maritime regions, the assembly of european regions, the network of regions for research and innovation, the european economic and social committee and the european commission, in their directorates-general for regional development and employment. i would like to thank all of them for their availability and their interesting contributions. following the change of title to include the reference to the europe 2020 strategy, the main objective of the report is to defend cohesion policy as a strong, well-funded policy that is present in all regions of the european union, and its key role in the europe 2020 strategy. the report was adopted almost unanimously in the committee on regional development: 40 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 vote against. the first part of the report briefly analyses the contribution of cohesion policy to the lisbon strategy and recalls the limits to the involvement of regional and local authorities, social and economic actors and civil society in the lisbon strategy, which made it difficult to take ownership, communicate and make it effective. the report also calls for evaluations not only of actual expenditure but also of its real impact. the second part is devoted to recommendations for the future europe 2020 strategy and highlights the importance of regions, multi-level governance and the partnership principle, basic pillars of cohesion policy which should be incorporated into the europe 2020 strategy as a necessary precondition for its successful implementation. it is also essential to strengthen the involvement of economic and social actors and civil society in general, in order to avoid the disconnection and discrediting of the strategy by its main actors. this part emphasises the key role of education, training, research and innovation, the importance of facilitating the implementation of the so-called knowledge triangle and the need to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which in many cases play a pioneering role in innovation. but at the same time, the specific needs of the regions and social groups with the greatest difficulties must not be forgotten, and a certain amount of flexibility must be allowed. to enhance the leverage effect of investment in r & d, education and training, we advocate the need for increased synergies between national strategic frameworks and national reform programmes, as well as greater coordination and coherence between the various european, national and regional policies related to the objectives of the strategy. the european investment bank plays and should continue to play an important role through financial engineering and cooperation instruments and support for regions and small and mediumsized enterprises, but in order to facilitate its task and that of all beneficiaries, further progress towards simplification is necessary. in conclusion, the report advocates a strong cohesion policy for the future, well funded and present in all regions of the european union with a key role in the europe 2020 strategy.
mr president, i have to spend ten seconds telling my opponent to go to greece and ask there who is responsible for the problems the workers are suffering at the moment. they're not waiting for the e.p.d. no, not sir. they expect real policy change, such as strategy 2020 can bring about. if we do the analysis wrong, we'll have the wrong solutions. and the analysis we have to make is that europe is suffering enormously from greed, from lack of regulation, from lack of economic governance, from not having a sufficiently prepared, cohesive population, from not having social justice, from having low economic growth, from having low employment growth and from still having huge layers of the population outside the labour market and low skilled. the effort of the next ten years, mr president, must be to increase the number of people in work and to have people with much more education to win the battle of productivity. we will not gain competitiveness in europe without winning the battle of productivity. we will not win our place in the world by lowering wages, breaking social standards, but by raising the level of knowledge, raising the level of solidarity in our society, our social cohesion - these are our strengths - making europe a truly united continent, with a clear project, clear objectives, with an economic governance that not only allows us to respond to the urgencies of today, but also to the challenges of tomorrow. that is our hope, and it is the hope that a large majority of members in the committee on employment and social affairs have forged, leaving aside the siren song of those who want to go back and 'save your own life' and breaking solidarity between all. and that, mr president, is what we hope: that strategy 2020 will connect with the european citizens, who are asking us for more jobs, more quality jobs, economic governance, fiscal consolidation - yes, but also social consolidation and economic consolidation, because otherwise we will achieve nothing.
mr president, in the year 2000 we adopted the lisbon agenda with very ambitious objectives. some have come true, but many, many have not. regional funds certainly contributed to the lisbon strategy. ten years later we have been shaken by the worst economic crisis in our memory, and i believe that this has served to enable us to establish, in this new europe 2020 strategy, where we went wrong and thus improve in order to achieve better results. firstly, we have learned that coordination between all levels of governance is essential, as mr cortés' report very well said. we have also learned that the contribution of the regional funds is essential if we are to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. we believe that the combination of concrete actions at all levels - european union, state and regional and local authorities - is absolutely necessary. if we work together, we'll be much stronger. it will also be important for the europe 2020 strategy to include a policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion. i would like to make a point here in connection with the subject of cohesion policy: the procedures must be much more flexible and much more efficient. and in the disability sector too, that difference will have to be covered in some way. finally, i would like to stress the important role that europe's regions and cities have to play and, in particular, the need to pay more attention to areas with special needs such as mountain areas, coastal areas or islands. in short, if we are to succeed, we must rely on europe's regions, cities and towns, and on a reformed cohesion policy adapted to the new situation.
mr president, commissioner, the future 2020 strategy must enable the union to correct the shortcomings identified in the lisbon strategy if we are to achieve a truly competitive economic area with economic, social and territorial cohesion. although the principles of the old lisbon strategy are still valid, i would like to stress that one of the reasons why it lost its strength was its highly complex structure and, in particular, the lack of clarity in the definition of responsibilities and tasks between the union and the other levels of government, especially regional and local. regions and local authorities must be involved in policy design and implementation if the future strategy 2020 is to bear fruit in the medium term. our regions and cities are the key actors in the development and implementation of a large part of the union's public investment in growth and jobs. the allocation of regional policy resources becomes a priority agent for achieving the european objectives we are defining. i would remind you that the resources invested between 2000 and 2006 through the european regional development fund have enabled the creation of 1 400 000 jobs in the union or the construction of more than 2 000 km of motorways. i would like to conclude by once again stressing the value of european regional policy in support of the strategic objectives of growth and employment. economic, social and territorial cohesion is a fundamental objective guaranteed by the treaties.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank all the members for their contributions and for the constructive atmosphere we have maintained in this important debate. this report on the contribution of cohesion policy to the lisbon objectives and the europe 2020 strategy is one of parliament's essential contributions to the definition of the future europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, one of the priorities of the spanish presidency. the report emphasises job creation, the promotion of a sustainable economy, education and training to promote development, employment and competitiveness, and the key role of investment in research and development, taking into account the need to provide specific measures for regions with natural difficulties. but europe 2020 cannot be successfully implemented without the participation and full endorsement of regional and local authorities and civil society. the regions not only contribute to the co-financing of projects, but are able to take a much closer pulse to the needs of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises, and to establish a direct link with universities and innovation centres, fostering the knowledge triangle. in this context, cohesion policy is not only a source of stable financial allocations, but is a powerful instrument for the economic development of all european regions. its objectives 'to eliminate existing disparities between regions and to bring about effective economic, social and territorial cohesion in europe' and its core principles 'an integrated approach, multi-level governance and genuine collaboration' are essential and complementary elements for the success of the europe 2020 strategy.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, commissioner, the committee on industry, research and energy wishes to express its support for the work of the eu forum for dialogue between universities and business. we believe that it is a good instrument for intensifying the relationship between the public and private sectors, which is so necessary. we are convinced that in times of economic crisis, when young people are finding it more difficult to find work and companies are facing increased competitive pressure, this collaboration has an added economic and social value which makes it an even greater priority. we believe that dialogue and cooperation should be a two-way flow, from supply and demand, and should be extended to national and regional levels to identify best practices, best policies and best instruments. we agree that encouraging staff mobility between research centres and enterprises, encouraging private sector investment in r & d and ensuring that universities bring well-prepared staff to the labour market are essential actions. the european union is already taking important steps, such as support for technology platforms, joint technology initiatives and any form of public-private partnership, and also the european institute of innovation and technology, which are very interesting initiatives in this direction and which we must continue to promote. in conclusion, madam president, the committee on industry, research and energy would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and congratulate him on his appointment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 may, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by rebecca harms, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the community financial assistance for the decommissioning of units 1 to 4 of the kozloduy nuclear power plant in bulgaria - 'kozloduy programme' (com (2009) 0581 - c7-0289/2009 - 2009/0172 (nle)) (a7-0142/2010).
i take this opportunity to ask you all to try to speak more slowly, because i have my dear interpreters constantly throwing me an sos, because they are not able to follow us when we speak too fast. the problem, then, is that they don't listen to you who do it in the original version. i therefore ask you to make an effort to slow down, because otherwise, as i say, there is no possibility of interpretation.
mr. tremopoulos, your time is up, but mrs. parvanova has raised her blue card to ask you a question. would you allow your colleague to ask you a question? and, mrs parvanova, can you, as briefly as possible, formulate your question?
no, i'm sorry, mrs. parvanova. i was just trying to help. this is not the regulatory procedure. the procedure is to put a question to the speaker who is speaking at the time. the question is therefore eliminated and the possibility of answering it is also eliminated.
the truth is, mr stoyanov, that you are crossing the boundaries of what is wrong, inappropriate, from the point of view of parliamentary language. i have not cut you off because i want to show the generosity that we have and, in particular, that our colleagues in the green group have, who i understand have been attacked in their speech. i wanted to show that we are capable of listening, but i must tell you that i thought your speech was quite wrong and that i will withdraw your speech on another occasion, because we cannot go down those paths.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for the frank discussion of this sensitive subject. i would like to conclude by stressing that the commission very much welcomes the overall positive opinion of the report, namely that parliament agrees with the commission to continue to support bulgaria with an amount of eur 300 million until 2013, that the focus should be on supporting the continuation of safe deconstruction measures and that projects in the energy sector are also eligible. we will continue to give you the allocation of funds and we will monitor it closely. we take note of your proposals and amendments. i am sure that the council can take parliament's opinion into account wherever it will contribute to improvements in clarifying the objectives of the regulation. the european union is committed to the development of the region and its economic and social development. the safety of nuclear power plant decommissioning is a top priority, as the opinion stresses. i thank you again for your work and i thank mrs harms for this report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 may, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, what i like most about this report i congratulate its author, vincent peillon is that it is a very precise and very concrete report. i hope that the precision of this document will extend to the reality on which it is based, namely the union for the mediterranean. because the least that can be said is that there are very important ambiguities in the ufm at the moment. i think the leaders who will meet - we hope - on 7 june in barcelona would do well to follow the concrete, precise priorities set out in the peillon report. first, the political context. the union for the mediterranean cannot be hampered and paralysed by the middle east conflict, but at the same time it cannot be abstracted from it either. it must, as far as possible, bring positive elements to its solution. secondly, we must make good projects, with professionalism and intelligence, and develop them. thirdly, we must find the resources and financial commitments that are necessary. and fourthly, we must move forward in a good relationship without obstacles, without contradictions, but rather seeking synergies between the union for the mediterranean and the mediterranean structures of the european union. in relation to these four central points, these four basic challenges, we must seek clarification and compromise, and i believe that this report is a good instrument, a good road map, for the search for this agreement.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the union for the mediterranean has objective obstacles and what i would ask of the european union, of all the institutions and of this parliament is firmness, much more firmness in trying to overcome the obstacles. the first and most important - and this has been pointed out by other honourable members - are the conflicts: the palestinian conflict in the face of the attitude of the israeli government, which systematically breaches international law and the agreements it has signed, such as the annapolis agreement, on settlements; the conflict in western sahara; and, of course, the military occupation of the north of the republic of cyprus. these are obviously objective obstacles for any institution which wants to have this framework of relations between the two shores of the mediterranean. until they are resolved, these conflicts are a real obstacle. we demand from my group greater commitment, greater energy in the face of all those responsible for breaking international law. but let us not forget that another objective problem is the economic and social asymmetries of the whole mediterranean, of the whole mediterranean. i think that any formula which attempts to deal with these asymmetries by looking, in the commercial part, simply and simply at free trade agreements is not going in the right direction. the good direction would be to take account of these asymmetries in an attempt to seek trade agreements which take into account complementarity and solidarity. the fact is that many countries on the mediterranean are in absolute poverty, in absolute marginalization. but, i repeat, the key thing would be greater commitment by the european union to the conflicts that are raging - i am talking about palestine, i am talking about western sahara. there are even some, such as western sahara, where the european union simply does nothing at all. not only does it do nothing, but it raises the advanced status that morocco currently has or it also intends, in the case of israel, to convert the association agreement into an advanced status.
mr president, a point of order. i think that a representative of the council presidency or perhaps of the french co-presidency of the union for the mediterranean should have intervened in this debate today. i'm very sorry for this absence. ladies and gentlemen, it is a priority for the european union that its immediate neighbourhood be an area of peace, prosperity, freedom and security. this must be the fundamental objective of the union for the mediterranean, whose second summit will be held, i hope, next month. i congratulate mr peillon and i thank him in particular for his open-minded and very constructive spirit. despite the proximity of the european union to the southern shore of the mediterranean, there are many differences between us in economic, political, social, demographic, cultural and other terms. some of these disparities are due to serious shortcomings in our neighbouring states. close dialogue and cooperation within the framework of the union for the mediterranean, the implementation of major joint projects envisaged by it, and the bilateral level of the association agreements are all very necessary to strengthen the relationship between the two shores and to reduce these disparities. to do this, our neighbours also have to make reforms. standing still should not be an option. i would like to emphasize three additional points. first, the importance of the union's secretariat in barcelona becoming fully operational as soon as possible. secondly, and closely linked to the above, the union for the mediterranean cannot be held hostage to conflicts such as the one in the middle east. the union for the mediterranean can help to find a solution, but it does not intend to be the instrument of a solution, nor should it be blocked by these conflicts. thirdly and lastly, the union for the mediterranean must also give priority attention to the so-called fourth chapter of euro-mediterranean cooperation, namely migration flows, security, social integration and justice.
mr president, commissioner, on behalf of the committee on international trade, i would like to thank mrs de sarnez for the cooperation we have had. the union for the mediterranean, the strengthening of major projects and institutional development are needed more than ever. today more than ever, solutions to the crisis, to research, to climate change, to water, to new energy models, to sustainable development are needed. and to do this, trade and economic relations in the area must be promoted and completed, with short- and medium-term measures, a free trade area, the abolition of tariff barriers, the opening up of the north-south and south-south markets. at the barcelona summit, the spanish presidency will offer the possibility of a new commitment, a new situation, a new sharing, democratization, economic and social solutions. the barcelona summit can put us in a position to lead the mediterranean.
member of the commission. − mr president, it was indeed a good and inspiring discussion. i agree with those who say that we lost a lot of time, particularly in building a secretariat. i shall come to that in a second. we are still facing some very important questions: how to make sure that whatever is going on around the middle east process does not take the union for the mediterranean hostage; how to make sure that the summit takes place and that it creates the momentum you were talking about; and how to solve the issue of the intergovernmental approach vis-à-vis the community approach as far as the union for the mediterranean is concerned. i shall make five very short remarks. the first is that i should like to express my appreciation of the spanish presidency. we worked very hard with the spanish presidency in recent months. we inaugurated the secretariat on 4 march together and the spanish presidency is working very hard to make sure that the barcelona summit takes place. my second remark is that it is very important not only that the secretariat starts its work but also that it is funded. so far it is funded only by the commission. we will be sending one expert to make sure that there is compatibility between the project and eu policy. the secretariat should be small – about 40 people, more or less – and it should be that instrument which makes it possible for us to have more and more projects for the benefit of the members of the union for the mediterranean. it is also important to say in this connection that there are a number of sectoral meetings going on which will bring benefits. next week there is a finance ministers’ meeting in marseilles, and then next month agriculture ministers will be meeting in cairo. while the union for the mediterranean is a very important part of our neighbourhood policy, the main bulk of our work with these countries is in the bilateral relationship where many of the southern partners would like to have an advanced status. advanced status, on my reading, also means advanced commitment from our partners across the board, including on human rights and mobility, which are also very important questions. i agree with the honourable members who were calling on us to ensure a greater synergy between the bilateral and multilateral approaches. my last remark is that we are determined to work with the european parliament. one of the next occasions will be the discussion on the neighbourhood package where we assess both the bilateral and multilateral framework of our neighbourhood.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr evgeni kirilov, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the need for an eu strategy for the south caucasus (2009/2216 (ini)) (a7-0123/2010).
ladies and gentlemen, there are eight requests for the floor for the catch-the-eye procedure. there's no time for everyone because we have to vote. therefore, i'm only going to grant six.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − as expected, we the greens lost our last chance to amend the harms report during the plenary vote on community financial assistance with respect to the decommissioning of four units of the kozolduy nuclear power plant in bulgaria. today the ep agreed to give eur 300 million (until 2013) to bulgaria for their current programme to decommission 4 nuclear units in kozloduy. this positive signal towards bulgaria was the reason why the rapporteur and the greens/efa abstained on the legislative proposal. thanks to the greens, the ep has finally recognised that bulgaria has hardly any policy regarding the final disposal of nuclear waste. however, the bulgarian government – with the help of epp and s&d – managed to eliminate any provision that would support any real progress on the issue of final disposal. currently, the main hazards to humans and the environment are displaced to russia, where most irradiated fuel elements are exported. the ep has nevertheless managed to secure more public participation, transparency, auditing and reporting provisions compared to the original commission proposal. we will see now whether any of these will be incorporated by the council, which has the final say since the ep is only consulted on nuclear related issues.
in writing. − i deeply regret that the right wing has finally ‘kidnapped’ this report on public finances and has completely changing the main aim of it, making it very neoliberal report. i applaud the decision of the rapporteur, hoang ngoc, to withdraw his name from it.
in writing. − it is a pity our alternative resolution on cohesion policy and eu2020 was rejected. we, the greens/efa, have thus decided to abstain in the final vote on the cortés lastra resolution.
in writing. − there has not been any big surprises in the amendments tabled by gue/ngl (all were rejected) except for the first part of the amendment 6 (western sahara). i wish to make it clear that i voted in favour of amendment 6, which stresses morocco’s responsibility in the situation of human rights violations in western sahara. the second part of amendment 1 (which underlined the need to increase finances for the ufm) tabled by brok, was also rejected. we voted in favour of the report as a whole (adopted by a large majority).
in writing. − i am glad everything we wanted was adopted in the afet committee and the corrections tabled by the s&d, epp and greens were all adopted. the final vote, which was positive, has been very easy for us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i have just had some sad news. one hour ago i was informed that a senior leader of the national league for democracy, takin soe myint, has passed away. that is very sad news which we have to add to that special joke that some call elections in burma. i add my voice to those who clearly condemn these elections, especially the fact that they are depriving hundreds of thousands of burmese access to their passive or active right to vote. this also includes the situation of aung san suu kyi who is in prison. this is something that we cannot remain silent on. once again, we have to ask the burmese regime to heed the appeals of the international community to allow all those prisoners of conscience to be released. this is important also in the sense that has been mentioned by ana gomes. i also understand that we have a strong responsibility in asking, urging and pushing india, russia and china to stop selling weapons to the junta regime in burma. there is also good news there. we have to welcome the european union’s support for the global arms embargo, and once again we have to urge the european member states to have a clear coalition on a consensus for such a ban. it is also important to remember – and this has also been said – that we cannot now cut the funds for the refugees living on the frontier. we have to establish a clear policy of support for these people. i have been there many times. we have to say clearly that this is not the time to stop the help these people need, especially for medical assistance at the present time.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must be very careful with this budgetary year. i do not recall, in 16 years of parliamentary activity, having been subjected to such pressure from national finance ministers. it is clear that the council will seek to reduce payment appropriations by even less than 1%, mainly because of the under-implementation of the structural funds, which is already beginning to appear, due to the cash-flow difficulties in the member states. the council will also want to introduce reductions in commitment appropriations in the category of administrative expenditure in order to bring category 5 into line with the general trend of cuts in national administrations. and of course the council will want to create large margins in the categories of expenditure to safeguard some of the priorities that the rapporteur has detailed, such as kozloduy, iter or galileo, which, being very important, were not foreseen in the current financial perspectives. it is clear that the circumstances are extraordinary and were not foreseen when we adopted the multiannual financial framework in december 2006 and that if there is any flexibility in the community budget mechanism, now would be the time to demonstrate it, but this will require a lot of negotiating flexibility. crises in national treasuries are a fact, but the political priorities of the european union, expressed for example in this budgetary mandate, are also a fact. we will all be responsible, we will find budgetary items to save, but let us remember that a strategy for economic growth in the european union requires a sufficient budget for the union. and this parliament will fight for it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against poverty and the other millennium development goals should unite us all. and i regret that certain political groups have introduced certain subjects which may make this unanimity difficult. moral issues, such as the proposed abortion as a method of birth control, or economic issues, such as the introduction of a tax on foreign exchange transactions. i think it is a very difficult tax to implement, to control and to collect and, moreover, if it is not adopted in a general way, especially among the main financial blocs, operations would shift to those countries where it is not in force. i regret that the report, which contains many positive points, does not receive the unanimous support of all the political groups because of these specific issues.
madam president, commissioner, mr cashman, in the year 2000 we defined and identified the objectives we should achieve to fight poverty, exclusion and inequality, but we did something even more important: we made concrete commitments and generated a global dynamic that has been supported by governments, non-governmental organisations and by the developing countries themselves. we have made progress since then, but not enough, and the crisis is pushing us back. we have heard a few minutes ago from eurosceptic and selfish positions that we should return to realism. i declare that realism today is to strive to change the reality of the world, to support this report tomorrow in plenary, to support the council which, in its second conclusion of today's meeting, has indicated that it is possible to achieve in 2015 what we set out to do in 2000.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i sincerely hope that this directive will make it possible to make rail freight transport a real alternative to road transport once and for all. this objective is necessary for reasons of energy efficiency and the environment, but also because the consolidation of truly trans-european rail corridors will add flexibility, efficiency, intermodality and possibilities to the movement of goods in particular and to logistics in general. and both are basic factors for the competitiveness of the real economy in europe. behind the decisions we've made today, there are many hours of hard work that have made improvements to the original project. it is a good thing to make a standard of the characteristics that a railway section must have in order to achieve the characteristic of a european corridor, because that will help the national and regional authorities to plan and coordinate, to understand each other. it is also very important to involve the institutions at all levels in this planning, because it is more efficient in optimising investment and because it is a really visible way of integrating and building europe from the bottom up, of making everyone feel counted in european projects. and, contrary to what we've been hearing and reading these days, to say that it's an improvement is also to equip each corridor with a single window as a management tool. it is the most efficient and balanced option in a purely political sense; it is more in line with the ideas of subsidiarity and proportionality, and it corresponds to the idea of the european project. the window will be able to make decisions on its own, which means a simplification of current processes and a transparent and non-discriminatory way of allocating slots. managers also have several options on how to set the window. i should also like to say that this regulation does not give priority - as commissioner reding has said - to the transport of goods over the transport of passengers, as we have heard. and this does not correspond to the interpretation of articles 14 and 15. finally, i would like to thank all the groups for their efforts to include them in one of the sections of the railway project which is so important for my country, the basque y. it is an important issue for an economy like the basque, which is purely export-oriented, and it clearly improves the prospects and the development possibilities of our commercial ports, which are to play an important role in the future as a basic element of the so-called 'highways of the sea'. finally, i hope that we will also improve transparency and the integration of the role of this parliament in the future draft because it has been a bit of a struggle to get our position in this debate.
madam president, we have just returned from the 'ten-t days' held in zaragoza these days, where both the european commission and parliament, the spanish presidency and the european union's transport ministers have confirmed the diagnosis: the share of rail freight traffic is falling seriously, even in countries that were champions of it until recently, such as germany. and there was also agreement on the treatment to be followed: the need for shock therapy to reactivate this traffic if we are to first meet our kyoto commitments to reduce emissions and also the urgency of achieving the diversification of alternatives for rampant road traffic, before total collapse. it is therefore urgent to increase the share of freight by rail, but this must be ensured at european and cross-border level, with a view to future trains of 900 metres and more in continuous corridors or with priority and with full safety, as proposed through the rtms. that's why this dossier is so important. i therefore congratulate mr marinescu and all those who have collaborated in the negotiations on the commitment he represents, which is still initial and with a clause for possible accession of other corridors, and above all on the explicit statement that a strong synergy is already foreseen with the revision of the transeuropean networks. it is therefore particularly grateful and appreciative of the inclusion of freight corridor no 16 when it is completed, and of the importance of inland and dry ports in addition to maritime ports. as has been said, and i think the best example is my own country, we have seen the share of rail passenger traffic increase to the detriment of freight. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. and as regards the allocation of slots to the single window, the german colleagues need not worry: the national operators will have the power to decide. deutsche bahn is insured.
madam president, within the transeuropean transport corridors is the railway corridor called the 'mediterranean corridor'. it is a vital link that will link north africa to europe. for spain it is vital because this axis is a priority, since it would link algeciras with europe. the commission has also received comments from interested parties. the reason has been given by commissioner reding: increased economic activity and a high concentration of land transport. this is one of the two conditions. it would open up the possibility of communicating with various seaports in the mediterranean area. we must take economic momentum, be competitive - the commissioner also said this - because more than 50% of spanish exports are produced in this area. so if we promote a strategic railway axis through the mediterranean, we will achieve greater competitiveness for spain and greater competitiveness for europe.
i am also pleased that this work has been completed, and i would like to thank mrs ludford in particular for the cooperation she has given to all the alternative rapporteurs. this is the first codecision text in which parliament has had a decisive say on the proposal for a directive put forward by the three member states, and it is important that a british mep has been the rapporteur for this text. member states have made use of the prerogative granted to them by the lisbon treaty - as has been said - in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters to be able to present initiatives, but the deadlock in which procedural rights had been since 2004 was partially resolved in this first right in the roadmap presented by the swedish presidency. the road was open and was interrupted by the election of the new commission. in this case, the commission decided to submit its proposal for a directive, which it had been preparing, as well. parliament incorporated the commission's work into its amendments. it has therefore been an example of good institutional cooperation in order not to waste time and to be able to speed up these procedural rights, this first right. this has made it possible to speed up the work. we now hope, as the commissioner has just said, that the rest of the rights, the bill of rights, which is the second of the package of procedural guarantees, will be here in parliament as soon as possible. and the rest of it too, because it would also make no sense if this package were delayed and we could not finish it within a reasonable time. the area of security, justice and freedom cannot be built, as the other rapporteurs have already said, if we do not start with the foundation of these procedural guarantees. how are we going to live in a safe, fair and free space if a citizen can be arbitrarily detained and becomes a suspect, if he does not have these procedural guarantees, these minimum standards in the member states? what then is the meaning of the europe we want to build? it is true, as other speakers have said, that the threats of terrorism and organised crime force us to strengthen our security mechanisms - the european arrest warrant is an example of this - but we all know that if we do not have this europe of justice and freedom, we will not have achieved the design we want for our future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
yes, the question is probably asking about the minimum standards we are asking for in the member states, but obviously each member state can increase those standards and that is certainly their intention. it is to build a europe that allows us to live in a space where we can have minimum standards that are desirable for all member states, but i am sure that with the historical tradition of your country and with the historical tradition of so many other countries that make up europe, i am sure that these standards will increase more and more.
madam president, i would like to take this moment to congratulate the spanish rotating presidency on the efforts it has made this semester to move beyond the common position on cuba and to create a new type of relationship between the european union and cuba which naturally includes the defence of human rights as a priority. that policy has not been crowned with success, basically because of the intransigence of the cuban dictatorship, which began this presidency precisely in january of this year with the expulsion of the member who spoke to you when he was trying to visit the island, with all the visas and all the legality, to worry about human rights there. but this new policy of the spanish government will bear fruit sooner rather than later.
madam president, i speak for the pupils of the european schools, whose qualifications are not recognized by the spanish ministry of education. children, almost all of them, of spanish officials are being treated discriminatory and unfairly. the table of equivalence which is being applied, recently consolidated by the spanish ministry, reduces half a point or one point for pupils who have studied in european schools. boys and girls who also speak languages. this means that when they try to fit in with careers that have a high cut-off score, they're left out of the system. we understand that this is an injustice per se. firstly, because spain has signed all the agreements and conventions and is not complying with them. secondly, because it is a basic discrimination. we cannot go on boasting of being a european country when we are actually treating the pupils of our european schools in an unfair and discriminatory way.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank president werner langen for this report and the econ committee. it is a very high quality report, economically and politically very important, and it comes at the right time. werner langen asks - and i'm not surprised by him - good questions and takes a standpoint, and offers you an ambitious standpoint. i think that is indeed the right approach to take on such a subject, given its financial importance, but also its economic importance. you know, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about derivatives, we are talking about a market of 600 000 billion dollars and products which are used daily by banks but also by companies to cover the risks of exchange rate fluctuations, interest rates or the volatility of oil prices. these are useful products, as mrs swinburne has just said, for our economies, but at the same time they can be a source of risk and today they are largely beyond any form of transparency and recording. and that's what we have to change. that is what you propose in your report, mr langen. this is also the approach announced by the commission in its communication on derivatives markets in october 2009 and which i confirmed, as you will recall, in person to parliament on 13 january. this is proof, mr langen, that i intend, as i said on 13 january, to be in the first car of the train and not in the last car. it is in this spirit that i confirm my intention to table a legislative proposal on otc derivatives this summer, and more specifically at the very beginning of september. the objectives are clear: we want to increase transparency, we want to extend standardization, we want to consolidate markets. but we must also do all this, ladies and gentlemen, without improvisation, quickly and properly. parliament's analyses are on the table, my services have been working for several months and in constant dialogue with all stakeholders; today we have launched a public consultation to finalise our proposals on a few specific topics. i would like to give an example of the criteria which must be used to make compensation for products compulsory. derivatives cannot all be standardised. second question: the type and level of prudential risk management requirements that we must have vis-à-vis clearing houses mrs băsescu has rightly raised this issue. these chambers are supposed to help us reduce systemic risk. we must be very vigilant so that they succeed in meeting all the conditions for this role. thirdly, the conditions under which clearing houses in third countries can offer these services in europe. another issue is the potential interoperability between clearing houses, the issue of trade repositories, these are key infrastructures, since they will gather all the information on transactions. how can they be regulated, and should they require an establishment in the european union? these are all questions that we will be paying attention to, and we must be alert to the answers that we are going to be given. and we will take the results of this consultation into account in our impact assessment and in the legislative proposal. i would like to mention a few more specific points in the langen report. first of all, i note the concerns of parliament about the ownership of clearing houses and the risk of excessive controls of these clearing houses by their users. i share your concern, mr langen, to be alert to any risk of conflict of interest, but at the same time we must take account of the fundamental community rules on freedom of investment, and these rules are hardly suitable for regulating the ownership of clearing houses. but we'll keep working on that. it is a sensitive subject, i do not want to avoid it, i raised this question in the consultation and, in any case, we need strict governance arrangements to limit any risk of conflicts of interest. i also note your preference for the clearing houses and central repositories to be located in europe. personally, mr langen, i am sympathetic to such an approach. this is why we have presented three different options in our consultation on trade repositories. but whether these infrastructures are partly in europe and partly elsewhere, the challenge is to ensure that all these entities are subject to equivalent rules and that our competent authorities have direct, instant, unconditional access to the information they need. the report also expresses a preference for a strong role for esma in the authorisation and supervision of clearing houses and also in the registration and supervision of trade repositories. this is also a very important issue on which we must continue to work. mr langen, the responsibility for supervision and authorization and the responsibility for taxation are linked. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. i also share your concerns about the volatility of the commodity derivatives markets - and i am working on that volatility - and also, as i said before parliament, about controlling all the risks of speculation and hyper-speculation, which i find scandalous in agricultural commodities. we must also move towards general transparency in these markets and put in place tools to combat excessive volatility in these markets. finally, the commission wants to remedy the recent malfunctioning of derivatives markets, particularly in sovereign debt. i have also launched today, ladies and gentlemen, a consultation on short selling, including sovereign cdss. we will also be presenting a legislative initiative in september. that is why i sincerely believe, and i am happy to say this to you personally, that the langen report demonstrates the level of commitment on these extremely serious issues to help define and implement a strategy for the otc derivatives market, to make it safer, more transparent, more efficient and in many ways this report is a very useful and very important encouragement for governments and for the commission, for which i thank you.
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam commissioner, i do not think i will be using the four minutes, because at this time of night and with so many members, there is no need to give many explanations. but it is a report on a subject which in the next ten or fifteen years will revolutionize the relationship between people and objects and between objects and objects: a new application of the internet. i should like to welcome the communication which the commission has drawn up, because it is an opportunity to anticipate the consequences of this new application, which have many virtues: they can improve many aspects of our lives, they open up new business opportunities and improve production. but they also, of course, have their risks. as for the report on which i have worked, together with the alternative rapporteurs from other political groups - to whom i would like to thank for their work - we have tried to ensure that users have all the security and privacy they are concerned about when using these new technologies. we have been looking at whether the legal framework covers all the possibilities that these new applications open up and, at the moment, it seems that it does, but what has been decided is that it should be evaluated. as these applications are being incorporated into different facets of our lives, they have to be evaluated, to see that, really, the users have their privacy and their security covered, from the point of view of health, but also from the point of view of privacy and so many, many issues. i think that's a good approach. this is just the beginning. and perhaps, apart from what the report says, madam commissioner, we should think about how we inform users well so that they really know what it is about. because, the truth is that not only users but also most of the members of this house who are not concerned with these issues, when we talk about the internet of things, they look at us with a face as if saying, and what is this? i think it would be interesting, apart from all these possibilities and concerns that the report - and also its communication - contains, to think carefully about how we are going to explain to people, to citizens, to users, what the internet of things is and what they can do with these new applications and how their privacy and security are covered. i think that is the point of this new application: that citizens trust it, that they feel safe.
the rapporteur, mrs schleicher, has already said that the internet is a global public good which must be managed in the general interest. the network is based on a public-private model and must be prevented from being controlled by any entity or group of entities, and any attempt by state or supranational authorities to control the flow of information accessing the network. a key concern of this report has been the position of the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (icann) in the global governance of the internet. as a private institution governed by us law, we have emphasized its uniqueness in view of the delicate role it plays and, while we support its maintenance because its work has been generally effective, we advocate a reform that would allow for greater participation by the european institutions in its governing bodies. but the internet is above all an essential instrument for the exercise of fundamental freedoms and for the enjoyment of genuinely democratic citizenship. significant safeguards against new forms of surveillance, control and censorship by public or private actors should therefore be established so that freedom of access to the internet and the protection of privacy are real and not illusory. in particular, governments are asked to refrain from restricting internet access through censorship, blocking, filtering or other means, and from entrusting private entities to carry out these activities. restrictions deemed indispensable, for example for the protection of minors, must be limited to what is strictly necessary in a democratic society, must be based on law and must respect the principle of proportionality as developed by the court of justice of the european union and the court of human rights. internet access must be made available to all citizens in an effective manner and, above all, without discrimination, with a special effort being made in relation to people living in rural areas, in the terms, incidentally, already provided for in the digital agenda approved by this parliament. we believe that it is very important that europe's voice is heard united and strong in internet governance, both in icann and in other international forums, especially in the internet governance forum, as it is a powerful instrument for dialogue between governments, civil society and the private sector. the next session of this forum is to be held in september in vilnius and its importance has not gone unnoticed by those of us who have written this report, so we strongly support it, while proposing some corrections to its working methods. in these scenarios it is very important that the principles of the european union as expressed in article 2 of its treaty are upheld, especially our relations with countries whose values may differ from those of europeans. the internet is the great sea, the ocean that must unite free citizens. i would like to thank the members who have worked with me on this report and the officials on the committee who have been of invaluable assistance. thank you very much for your attention at this time of night.
madam president, i am in favour of including the selfemployed in the proposal for a directive, and therefore i reject this commission proposal and the bauer report. i am shocked that this proposal is against the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises by introducing unfair competition from the so-called selfemployed already today. this report establishes the practice of unfair competition and will allow it to develop with the development of the fake independent. this proposal is also against the interests of the employees. at a time when we are all working together to build the social europe, this report reinforces social dumping between member states. it is against the interests of the workers, it is against the interests of europe. finally, this report ignores road safety. i presided over a region which is crossed by heavy traffic from all over europe, with considerable accidents which have given rise to legal actions. these serious accidents must not be forgotten and we will have to answer to our fellow citizens for our decision. in 2002, two member states asked the european court of justice to annul directive 2002/15 because of the inclusion of the self-employed, but the court rejected their request on the grounds of road safety. finally, we need a european regulation between all the member states because transport is a european matter today. the vote in committee was clear. i hope that it will be as clear in plenary.
madam president, commissioner, mrs bauer, it is my duty, first of all, to express my deep disappointment with you, with the way you have conducted a negotiation in which parliament has not been respected and with the way you have presented this debate here today, which is seriously lacking in truth. it is not true, commissioner, that the selfemployed are included. the selfemployed have been included since 2009. you are the ones who want to take the self-employed out of the directive. and it is not true, commissioner, that we are not talking about road safety and health. that is what we are talking about, commissioner. we are talking about that, the safety of autonomous drivers and of european citizens on the road. that's what we're talking about. and you're making a bunch of false arguments here. and, as always, they bring up the red tape. it's not true, man. you have given great praise to the tachograph and to the great advance that has been made in driving regulations in europe with the tachograph. it can be applied without any further red tape. what you're doing is putting the economic interests of a few ahead of the rights of the many. that is the true reality. and, once again, making it not true that they say it's people first and business second. for you, it's business first and then it's people. let our protest remain here and let us hope that parliament will once again say that citizens, security, law and truth are the most important things. i object to that. i'm very disappointed. mrs bauer, i am very disappointed in the way you have conducted this debate and this negotiation.
madam president, we believe that it is essential that the selfemployed be included in this directive, and this view is shared in my country by both the trade union and employers' representatives, who have expressly asked us to include the selfemployed in this directive. we believe that there are several reasons for this inclusion. first, for the safety of workers. the selfemployed deserve the same protection as other hauliers, not only for driving periods but also for activities other than driving which are directly related to a road transport operation. secondly, for reasons of competition, since the reintroduction of discrimination between selfemployed and employed workers will distort both the labour market and the transport market. finally, i do not think it is a good idea for each member state to be able to apply the provisions of the directive to autonomous drivers if they so wish. there must be a general rule for the whole union, since most carriers do their work outside its borders; otherwise fair competition would be prevented.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is of the utmost importance for consumers and the agri-food industry, because it is not at all easy to achieve a balanced labelling, which contains everything that is essential but is not so exhaustive as to complicate the information. this is a great report and the rapporteur should be congratulated on it. i agree with her on the big issues that concern nutritional information and the controversial issue of profiling. this is particularly true if we take into account that the commission did not fulfil its commitment to establish such profiles as well as their conditions of use before 19 january 2009, as required by regulation (ec) no 1924/2006. there is one issue which concerns me and that is the possibility of coexistence of national standards for labelling, because it goes against the objective of the legislation, which is harmonisation and avoiding all possible obstacles to the functioning of a genuine single market. as regards the indication of the country of origin, current legislation provides that this information must be provided where, if it is not indicated, it may mislead the consumer. in addition, voluntary labelling is always envisaged. going further may involve economic costs and administrative complexity for businesses, without any significant and clear benefit to the consumer. and as regards the use of different languages, i have to say that the commission's proposal is in line with the existing directive, which has worked well and has not raised any problems. the reopening of this debate may prove dangerous and unnecessary and cause problems for the circulation of products.
mr president, the best proof of the goodwill we have is the thousand amendments we are seeing from committee to plenary. but, in addition to goodwill, i believe that we must be practical when it comes to food labelling if we do not want to achieve the opposite of what we are aiming for, namely to confuse the consumer instead of helping him to be informed. it is not to illustrate but to warn, to inform you what you can eat and to what extent. do we have to label fats, sugars, trans fats? i did indeed. what about that affecting cholesterol, about all those substances that affect what we've said: obesity and people's health? yes, but some other foods with some other information, like the place of origin, when it doesn't lead to confusion, or, for example, in a meat say the place of birth, the place of passage, the place of grazing or the place of slaughter of the cattle can illustrate a lot, but it will end up confusing. it is up to us to be practical and to see whether this regulation will be the one that will harmonize and inform consumers or, if not, the one that will confuse them more and impose issues that, far from achieving better health standards, will lead to greater degrees of confusion. so i point out, for example, that some of us opt for the gda, the amount of daily intake, instead of the traffic lights, because it's very clear that if you consume this amount or twice that amount you're going to get fat, so consume just one. daily intake versus other types of codes is what some of us are proposing to avoid further confusion for the consumer.
mr president, i voted in favour of this initiative because its main objective is to continue to support the peace and reconciliation process in northern ireland and the border regions of ireland, to be able to build reconciliation and bridges of communication between the most divided communities and to continue, as europeans, to defend human values and rights. in euskadi, in the basque country, we are still suffering from terrorist violence and we hope that eta will listen to the cry of basque society, which is tired of suffering and asks it to abandon weapons once and for all. we expect a declaration of a definitive ceasefire and, in those conditions, i expect the same solidarity and the same determined support from the european union to build, also in the basque country, the peace and reconciliation we so desire.
in writing. − the report concerns the mobilisation of the egf to the benefit of the valencia region in spain (eur 6 598 735), following 2 425 redundancies in 181 enterprises operating in the 'manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products' sector. the funds will go directly to affected workers. the report got adopted in cobu without debate. in plenary, we greens supported it too.
in writing. − the report concerns the mobilisation of the egf for the benefit of irish workers (eur 2 570 853) following redundancies at waterford crystal and three of its suppliers operating in the crystal sector. the funds will go directly to affected workers. the report was adopted in cobu without debate. no problem voting in favour.
in writing. − the report concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the benefit of the castilla-la mancha region in spain (eur 1 950 000), following 585 redundancies in 36 enterprises operating in the ‘manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork, except furniture; manufacture of articles of straw and plaiting materials’ sector. the funds will go directly to affected workers. the report was adopted in the committee on budgets without debate. we, the verts/ale group, supported it.
in writing. − the report concerns the mobilisation of eur 1 110 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. according to the commission's proposal, this amount is intended to cover the following activities: activities linked to the egf mid-term evaluation (art. 17) - monitoring and implementation studies, creation of a knowledge base, exchange of information and experience among member states and commission experts and auditors, development of networks, organisation of meetings of the expert group of contact persons of the egf, organisation of seminars on the implementation of the fund, as well as information and publicity activities (art. 9) and further development of the egf website and publications in all eu languages. the report was adopted in cobu without debate. we greens supported it.
in writing. − i want to salute and congratulate my colleague in the greek greens, michail tremopoulos, for the adoption today of his report on transparency and regional policy and its funding. the result, 629 votes in favour and only 6 against, shows the great job he has done on it.
in writing. − our group, greens/efa, did not oppose the rapporteur's priorities for the trilogue negotiations. we tabled some more detailed am on the "greening" of structural funds, rural development and agricultural policy, which unsurprisingly were all rejected, but which can be reintroduced for the more detailed 1st budgetary reading of parliament in september. green meps from other committees have co-signed am in the name of their respective committees. again, due to the approach of the rapporteur not to unnecessarily inflate the text, most of those got voted down.
in writing. − i am glad the key paragraphs of the resolution remained in the text, mainly paragraphs 33, 34, 35 and 36, as well as recitals k, s and x. this is the reason why we voted in favour. otherwise, if at least one of the separate votes had been rejected, we greens would have voted against the report.
in writing. − we greens have strongly supported this report by our socialist colleague, badia i cutchet. it will be an important new application of internet technology. in the next 10-15 years, it is predicted that the internet of things will enter our daily lives. it uses rfid (radio frequency identification) technology to receive and transmit information wirelessly. it works with a tiny chip which has the capacity to store a lot of information about the object or the person on which it has been placed. in the agri-food sector, for example, rfid allows better and faster product traceability, and provides information about content: chemical characteristics, gluten levels, etc. similar applications are already in use, such as a chip that can convey real-time information about tyre pressure to a driver. this new technology will revolutionise and widen person-to-thing and thing-to-thing interaction. the innovation lies in the thing-to-thing relationship. the most commonly cited practical example of this is that of fridges which, if suitably programmed, will be able to detect any product past, or approaching, its use-by date.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his report and on the timeliness of it, given the proximity of the new meeting of the internet governance forum, which will take place within the eu for the first time. the eu has been involved in this forum since its inception, but the fact that it is being held in vilnius gives our delegation greater relevance. this year marks exactly five years since the forum was set up and, in accordance with the tunisian agenda, a decision will have to be taken on its continuation. the eu delegation in sharm el sheikh has already expressed its support for its continuation in its current form because of the important role it plays as an instrument of open dialogue between all actors involved in internet governance. and this must remain our position in the discussions to be held in vilnius. as regards the other issues, such as the development of icann, which will no doubt play an important part in the discussions of the next forum, mr sosa wagner's report makes very clear the consensus position which the representatives of the three european institutions will jointly defend at the igf.
in writing. − i have voted against at the final vote of this report because it included the promotion of governmental interference with internet governance, which is not exactly the green position.
in writing. − i am sorry the split vote requested by the greens to take out the call for a european patent court did not work, so this is regrettably included. however, this report calls for the use of common patent tools, patent platforms and full right licences, and it stresses the importance of the quality of patents.
in writing. − i am glad we adopted today the cashman report on the mdg. as long as we guarantee effective aid, lives will be saved and poverty will be eradicated. in september 2010, all united nations member states will come together in new york to discuss the progress made towards the mdgs and agree on actions to be taken to ensure that the goals are met. the report we adopted today is an extremely important document in terms of helping to define an ambitious eu position on this issue ahead of the september summit and putting political pressure on eu member states. the endorsement of this report by an overwhelming majority of meps sends a clear and cross-party-political message to the eu heads of state and government, before they meet on 17 june in brussels, that the eu should remain strong and fully committed to the achievement of the mdgs, especially at a time of financial crisis.
president of the commission. − the task force was for economic governance and, when i was expressing my overall satisfaction with the work so far, i was referring to that. of course, growth is a separate issue now. growth is the most important point for the european union economy. without growth, we will not be able to deliver to our citizens what they expect. we will not be able to keep our social market economy. our citizens will not be able to realise their full potential. that is precisely the goal of eu 2020 – growth, growth and growth. not just any kind of growth, but intelligent growth, sustainable growth and inclusive growth. of course, we believe that to have growth we need confidence, and unless confidence comes back to the financial markets in europe we will not be able to achieve that higher level of growth and restore the growth potential before the crisis. that is why fiscal consolidation is so important and reforms are so important, not as an end in themselves but as a means to achieve greater levels of growth to increase the growth potential in europe.
president of the commission. − speaking frankly, i am not looking at this point in terms of a fight for competence or grabbing power. that is not the problem. what we have now, and it is clear – article 120 of the treaty – is a situation in which the economic policy of a member state is not just a matter of national concern. we have seen during this crisis that the decisions taken by one country have a very direct spill-over effect on the other countries. so it makes sense, for instance, that the member states, when they are preparing their budget, know what others are doing as well, because the decisions of others will have an impact on their own decisions. we do not want at all – and i want to make this clear – to interfere in the sovereign powers of our national parliaments. it is very important for this to be respected, but it makes sense that when we are discussing the economic policy for europe – and we have seen how interdependent we are – we should be aware of what the main intentions of the other economies are. this is the right point. what is the added value of being together? this is the sensible line the commission is proposing, and we believe that now a consensus is emerging along these lines.
president of the commission. − you are completely right when you underline what i have been calling the holistic approach to economic policy. it is a mistake and i think now member states are well aware of it. when we speak about economic policy in europe, just to consider the stability and growth pact or just to consider the financial services reform, it all comes down to growth. to have sustainable growth, we need of course to have sound economic governance in europe, we have to respect the stability and growth pact, and we need the credibility of sound public finances, but we also need new regulatory supervision for the financial market and we need to invest in our potential for growth. this is precisely what eu 2020 is about. it is about reform. that is why i am insisting that we need fiscal consolidation and structural reform. and of course we need to pursue the economic policies that are so important for us in europe, namely in terms of economic and social cohesion – not only for 16 – or 17, because i hope that estonia will join the euro area very soon – but for all the 27 member states.
president of the commission. − you have raised many questions. first of all, what we are doing now in the task force and indeed in the commission – a communication on 12 may already mentioned this – is examining the possibility of reinforcing the stability and growth pact, including by broadening the arsenal of incentives for compliance, as i prefer to call it. i believe it makes sense to have these incentives for compliance – some people speak of sanctions – because we need the credibility of those instruments to ensure that the stability and growth pact is respected. as we have seen, the problem was that some member states did not respect the treaty that they themselves had adopted and ratified. how can we do this? we want to do it in a fair manner, not just penalising those countries that are in the cohesion fund. that is why we are looking for ways of implementing those incentives for compliance, irrespective of whether or not the countries are cohesion countries. those incentives for compliance can be reinforced in several ways, for instance more upstream, including using them in the preventive part of the pact, or more consequently, for instance with an increased degree of automaticity. we are looking at several ways and the commission will put forward some legislative proposals on this.
mr president, mr president barroso, i want to hear you talk about unemployment when you detail the objectives of the working group on economic governance, because you have referred to the strategy on many occasions as a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. and it should be inclusive above all for those more than 20 million europeans who feel excluded because they have been thrown out of the labour market as a result of the brutal crisis. more than 20 million unemployed people want concrete results when we tell them that economic governance, stability and supervision - the package of economic and financial supervision - will be reflected in a strategy directly aimed at putting back to work, with a view to greater productivity and therefore competitiveness, all those people who have been affected in their own flesh by the outbreak of the crisis. and in particular, i want to hear from you how it will be reflected in the participation of the european union member states that are going to take part in this opportunity, which cannot be wasted, which must be relevant to the definition of new rules for global economic governance, at the forthcoming g20 meeting in toronto.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank very sincerely the political groups who have taken the initiative of this series of questions on an extremely important subject, mr chountis, mr pittella, mr gauzès, and now mrs goulard, and other members who will be speaking. i would like to give you my honest opinion and i hope you will appreciate my determination on this and other issues relating to the lessons of the crisis and the transparency to which citizens and businesses are entitled. i had the opportunity on 20 april to raise the issue of credit rating agencies and their importance for the functioning of the economy and the financial markets. when it comes to checking the health or fever of a product, a company, or a state - i will come back to that - when it comes to sovereign risks, madam goulard, ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with me that breaking the thermometer does not eliminate fever. the question is whether the thermometer is working properly and, if so, whether we can use several thermometers to do the validation and the checks. and my feeling is that there is a lot to be said about how the thermometer works, and therefore how the rating agencies work, which play a leading role in assessing the risks of the situation of companies as well as states. the crisis has shown, and it shows, mr chountis, you are right, that their functioning has not always been exemplary, with sometimes very serious consequences. this is an area, ladies and gentlemen, in which the g20 has taken strong decisions, as on other subjects, in this case to put in place supervision and governance rules. and i want to remind you that at the time of the crisis, as many of you have pointed out, mr gauzès, mrs goulard, the commission quickly took up its responsibilities and made the regulation of the activities of the rating agencies a priority over the last two years. as early as september 2009, one year after lehman's bankruptcy, the regulation on credit rating agencies was adopted, with very strong support, support and improvements from parliament - i thank mr gauzès again - to address the problems raised by the way these agencies operated, which contributed in some way to the financial crisis. the regulation introduced a mandatory registration regime for all agencies established in the union and imposed a set of stringent requirements to ensure that potential conflicts of interest are eliminated as far as possible, to enhance the quality of ratings and the methodology for rating and, finally, to ensure that agencies act in a more transparent manner. ladies and gentlemen, i am confident that these new rules will significantly improve the independence and integrity of the rating process, the transparency of these rating activities and the quality of the ratings themselves, including the ratings of the sovereign debt of the countries of the european union and of the financial institutions of the union. two weeks ago, in the second stage, on 2 june, the commission, on my proposal, adopted a proposal to amend the regulation on credit rating agencies to give esma, the future european financial market authority, exclusive competence for the registration and ongoing supervision of credit rating agencies. it is still necessary for esma to exist, and i fully agree with what has just been said by mrs goulard and what you all think, that we must - we were talking about this recently with the rapporteurs on the supervision package, the larosière package - reach a dynamic, credible compromise between parliament and the council to implement what has been proposed, namely the establishment of these three independent authorities by 1 january next. we're not there yet. we must make an effort, and i call again from this platform and from the council and parliament to bring their views closer together. and i repeat, mr president, the commission's readiness, and my readiness in particular, to promote this dynamic compromise. in addition, in order to enhance the benefit of transparency and increase competition among credit rating agencies, a provision has been introduced to facilitate access to information on structured finance instruments by any credit rating agency interested in publishing an unsolicited rating. in other words, when one structured products agency receives information to develop its rating, the other agencies will have the right to use this information to develop their own ratings. so here we are. that's not enough. it is increasingly widely recognised in europe and around the world that the current failures affecting the rating procedures, which have been brought to light by the crisis, have not been adequately addressed, and i want to agree with mr chountis on this analysis. that is why i have asked my services to undertake a new reflection on the whole architecture and role of rating agencies. it is in this context, mr pittella, that the analysis, the very precise, objective examination of the functioning of these agencies in the light of the new regulations will be carried out in the coming months - you said an inquiry - and taking account of this, even if it is not fully implemented, it will have to wait until the beginning of december. i think, as you all do, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a problem simply with the diversity of this market. this market is too concentrated, in too few hands. there is not enough competition in this sector, and that is a matter of concern to us. without, for the moment, favouring any particular option, mr pittella, the commission is considering structural measures, including the creation of an independent european rating agency which, for some of us, i say now on a personal basis, is rather my favourite, particularly as regards the rating of sovereign risks mentioned by mr gauzès earlier, such as mrs goulard or mr pittella. another structural measure we are considering is the increased involvement of independent public entities in the rating process. the sovereign debt, since this is what is at stake when we talk about greece and, if necessary, other states, must be given special attention to ensure that the methods used are the right ones and that they are appropriate. the lack of due diligence by banks and other financial institutions, the lack of alternative criteria for assessing the reliability of an investment also deserve particular attention. the current financial regulations which expressly provide for the use of ratings also require a thorough review. these are all subjects, and we will not avoid any of the difficult issues on which the commission is working. we will be able to give our first guidelines in september, at the same time as we deal with other important issues of transparency and control, in terms of the regulation of derivatives and short selling. and we will make legislative proposals at the end of this year or at the very beginning of 2011, not only, madame goulard, to continue - i quote your own words - what was started by my predecessor with your support, which is being put in place and which is not enough, but also to amplify, go further towards transparency to avoid conflicts of interest, and for these ratings to be more numerous, more diversified and, as far as sovereign risks are concerned, unchallenged.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner barnier, the rating agencies were not able to anticipate the subprime mortgage crisis, the risk of structured finance products or the collapse of lehman brothers. the regulation adopted in april 2009 promotes their transparency, subjects the agencies themselves to european oversight and begins to address issues relating to their responsibility and quality, addressing some conflicts of interest in their operations. the commission's new proposal is a further step in this direction. i am convinced that we in parliament will contribute to the establishment of supervision from 1 january 2011 and, moreover, to cooperation in its projects, so that there is a new, stricter regulatory framework. the role that regulatory agencies are now playing in the debt and public deficit crisis, revealing the discretion of their ratings in terms of methods, preparation and communication, the high procyclical impact of their ratings - sometimes said to be firefighters, what they do is to fan the flames further - their collision with the positions of the main international and european financial institutions - to the point that the european central bank has decided to dispense with their ratings in sovereign debt operations - require a more thorough rethinking of their role and comparison with the general interests. today, there is open doubt as to whether rating agencies are capable of making an objective and responsible assessment, in particular of sovereign risk, and the questions that arise are of a deeper nature - as you said, of a structural nature - and affect their compatibility with democratic principles, because they affect the efforts that pensioners, workers and the vulnerable population are making and who do not want to see them fail and be trampled underfoot by irresponsibility in the functioning of the markets. these are questions that affect independence. is public rating compatible with private ownership? can you be both judge and jury? is it possible to qualify as a business model based on remuneration paid by the actors themselves to be examined? are the actors the ones who get to choose the examiner? the united states senate is already addressing these issues and it would be necessary for us to address them here as well. these are issues that affect responsibility and sustainability. can responsible governance be ensured that avoids short-term perspectives and ensures sustainability? can the agencies remain indifferent to the commitments of the european authorities and to the efforts of the main international public actors? will they be held responsible for their effects on the market, especially their consequences, which, i agree with you, can be described as harmful? will they maintain regulatory privileges and a regulatory reliance on the standards that appeal to the use of their qualifications? will the lack of competition continue? and, in the legitimacy aspect, can agencies hold so much sway over our economies with so little control? is it necessary to go beyond supervisory control and go to the internal control of the governance structure and even the business structure itself? a public european rating system should be established, a new role for existing european agencies should be forced, new ones should be promoted and even the need for a global rating should be raised, in accordance with new principles. these are the questions that must be answered, commissioner.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank each and every one of you for the quality and frankness of your speeches. i shall not go into the role of these agencies or the importance of the ratings they issue; mrs. comi, just now, reminded me of it very well. second preliminary remark: in line with what mr papanikolaou and mr strejček have just said, we must improve the way these agencies operate. there must be transparency - i will come back to this - and these ratings must be as unquestionable and objective as possible. we will achieve this, we must achieve this, but it will not exempt companies, especially financial companies, from being well managed, from having internal and external supervisory systems, from having crisis management tools - this is also part of the proposals that the commission is making - nor will it exempt states from managing themselves well and managing their public finances well and controlling their expenditure. i'll get back to the rating agencies. we want the new proposal to amend the regulation on these agencies to be adopted very quickly to ensure better supervision of these agencies by esma. mrs le pen, you must correct - she is no longer here - your information. neither the central bank nor the commission will supervise these agencies. we wanted - and it is logical that the new independent authority esma should take on this role - more supervision and more transparency in the market. as mr klinz has very well said, there was a need for this transparency when we look at what has happened in the last few years. however, as i said earlier at the beginning of my speech, these proposals and the existing regulation - mr cutaş was referring to the regulation which must be properly implemented between now and the end of the year on credit rating agencies and which will only be fully applicable in december 2010 - do not cover all the subjects. for example, some questions have not been examined in depth. diversification, more competition ms swinburne or mr scicluna recalled the need for an agency market not to be concentrated in too few hands; the issuer-payer model, which mr sven giegold has spoken about very clearly and which is now widespread: is this model sound? is it sustainable? mr karas also raised this question. we have to look at this issue when we are assessing the rules in the new regulations which will come into force by december, because we have specifically targeted conflicts of interest to reduce them. will this regulation be enough? we must in any case ask ourselves about the issuer-payer model that mr giegold was referring to. the third issue we must deal with in our new approach is european and national legislation. are these laws not based too much, as i think, on the credit ratings of the rating agencies? finally, mrs băsescu referred earlier to the question of the specific methodology for sovereign risks: we must also work precisely on this. i would like to thank mr antolín sánchez presedo for his support for a rapid agreement on the supervisory package. this is one of the keys, because we need esma for the supervision of these agencies, and not only for that. yes, we need a more structural response. that is why we are looking very closely at all the issues i have just mentioned, and i would add: independence, which president sharon bowles was calling for and i also hope that there will be independence, that is to say credibility, for these agencies. all actors that are not sufficient; the structure of markets; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the competitiveness of european industry, including the idea - which i believe is right - of a european agency, particularly to deal with the issue of sovereign risks, and perhaps not only. i didn't mention the status of this agency. will it be a public agency, a private agency, a public-private partnership or, as mr klinz mentioned, the interesting idea of a foundation? we will also be working on these questions in the coming weeks. many of you, mrs bowles, mr chountis earlier, mrs podimata a moment ago, have mentioned the recent deterioration of the greek note. i do not, as commissioner, intend to comment in detail on every rating issued by this or that rating agency. we would spend a lot of time on that, that's not our role, we shouldn't add to it, when it comes to the credibility of the ratings that have been, or are, made. this does not prevent me, like my colleague and friend olli rehn this morning, from saying to you that i was surprised - mr mölzer also mentioned this surprise - by the timing of the latest rating of greece by one of the agencies yesterday. ladies and gentlemen, we are very aware - and we must say this to the outside world - of the very great efforts that greece - as mr klute has mentioned - is making to clean up its public finances and to return to strong and healthy growth. the commission has full confidence in this approach, which is not easy but necessary and must succeed. it should be remembered that greece is not alone. it is in the context of european solidarity, as was demonstrated at the highest level of heads of state and government, the commission, the central bank and the imf a few weeks ago, and this solidarity will continue to be exercised and proved. the various ratings and the attention paid to them, the disputes also on methodologies or timing, all this encourages me in the work of reforming the agencies, work which we have begun as i said in our communication of 2 june, and i would remind you that we will make legislative proposals on these matters at the latest by the end of the year or the beginning of next year. mr klute, you mentioned that when we talk about all these issues, it is not just the rating agencies that are involved. this subject, this tool that must be improved - more transparency, control, credibility and diversity - must be part of a global architecture of smart regulation and effective supervision. these are the lessons of the crisis, which is not over, and we will learn all the lessons. i repeat, no actor, no product, no market, no territory should be left out of effective supervision and intelligent regulation. this is precisely the agenda that was proposed by the commission on 2 june, supported by the council of ministers in luxembourg a few days ago, supported also, i hope, as president barroso will wish, by the european council, and you can count on me and on us, ladies and gentlemen, to make proposals, brick by brick, between now and the beginning of next year, on all the commitments we have made, to draw, at european level and in good agreement with the other regions of the world, in particular the united states, all the lessons and lessons of this crisis vis-à-vis citizens, consumers and businesses.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i had the honour of being interviewed on 13 january, even before i was appointed by your parliament as a european commissioner, i had promised to improve investor protection and to reduce the administrative burden on businesses, especially small and mediumsized businesses, which, as we know, account for 80 to 90% of the economic fabric of the single market. i am therefore very pleased that parliament is adopting this revision of the prospectus directive at first reading. it is an amended directive which simplifies and clarifies the rules for the issue of securities, which supports small and mediumsized enterprises, as mr klinz has just rightly pointed out, in their access to the capital markets, and which will help to strengthen the internal capital market. the negotiation of this directive has benefited from the close cooperation of parliament, and even more so since significant improvements have been proposed by parliament and the council, and the commission has obviously played its part. i would therefore like to express my warm thanks on behalf of the commission to your rapporteur, mr wolf klinz, and to the econ committee for their efficient work and constructive cooperation. we are pleased with the compromise text we now have in hand, which is in keeping with the spirit of the original proposal. the prospectus directive of 2003 has had very clear and undeniable merits. it has set out harmonised rules which european companies must publish when they issue securities, with a major innovation. where a prospectus has been approved in a member state, it shall be valid throughout the union. however, the 2003 framework still needed to be adjusted to increase legal clarity, the effectiveness of the prospectus regime and reduce administrative burdens. that is why, thanks to you and this revision, certain types of securities issues will now be subject to reduced reporting requirements for small businesses, for small lenders, for rights issues and for state guarantees. the format and content of the summary of the prospectus will be improved. exemptions from the obligation to publish a prospectus are clarified for cases where companies sell through intermediaries, retail chains or allocate shares to their staff. finally, the reporting obligations which currently overlap with the requirements of the transparency directive will be abolished. this is the result of our work together. the revised directive will therefore provide a balanced instrument adapted to the complex issues raised by investors and issuers on capital markets, whether small and medium-sized enterprises or large well-established companies. the adoption of this text at first reading will send a strong signal that the union is delivering on its commitments to simplify and reduce administrative burdens while maintaining and even improving the level of investor protection. that is why i would like to thank your rapporteur again and thank you for approving this dynamic compromise in favour of simplification and, in particular, of small and mediumsized enterprises throughout europe.
mr president, commissioner, we know a number of things. we know this crisis has been like a mutated virus. it started as a housing crisis, then a banking crisis, then an economic crisis, and then a sovereign debt crisis that can lead to another crisis in the sector. we also know that this crisis has been very costly. according to its services, the aid committed to the financial sector amounts to eur 3.5 billion, i.e. one third of the union's gross domestic product. we also know that one of the roots of the crisis has been the lack of transparency in products, institutions and markets. that is why the report we are discussing now is so important, but if you want some figures, i will remind you that in the united states alone, in the period 2000-2006, securities-backed assets increased fourfold and mortgage-backed assets increased sevenfold, and that, in a very recent hearing, the directors of a reputable bank said that they did not know very well what they were selling. we also know, and this is the third observation, that many of the commitments we have voluntarily made at the g20 have not - and i will quote a spanish poet - 'gone from the muses to the theatre', have not gone from imagination to written form. and we know that in all this restructuring of the financial sector there are three principles which i think are crucial: pan-european institutions must be supervised by pan-european authorities; we must have the necessary measures to detect the virus and prevent contagion; and we must, finally, avoid that those diseases which have not been caused by citizens are paid for exclusively by citizens. commissioner, you have an important task if we do not want the next crisis to catch us in the act. i would like to end by saying in french: i commend you on your mission: "de l'audace, toujours de l'audace et encore de l'audace".
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, in recent months we have been witnessing some very serious debates in the european parliament. we are defining - nothing more and nothing less - the future of the european union. we are discussing, for example, the europe 2020 strategy, so that we do not fall behind in r & d & i, in job creation, in global competitiveness, in respect for the environment. i would like to know whether the commission and the council believe that these objectives can be achieved without substantially increasing the community budget or whether, on the contrary, we are going to be left once again with beautiful declarations. we cannot forget - and we have already mentioned this here - that the treaty of lisbon came into force a few months ago and that, as a result of this, the external action service is being set up, for example, and this too has an economic cost and i would like to know how we are going to finance it. i'm going to give you an example of what i think we shouldn't do and which, unfortunately, i've heard here. for example, the commission has just presented an amending budget to compensate the acp countries for their banana supplies, and it is 190 million for these four years. do you really think that this commitment must be met at the expense of other lines of aid to third countries? are we really going to finance new commitments, cutting back on others we have already made? i believe that the needs are clear and the answers should be, but just in case i am going to remind you what the council said when it adopted the current financial framework, and i quote: 'the increasing pace of globalisation and rapid technological change continue to bring new opportunities and to pose new challenges. against this background, the european council agrees that the european union should undertake a new overall assessment of the financial framework, covering both revenue and expenditure, in order to sustain and strengthen modernisation on the basis that is currently under way. the european council therefore invites the commission to undertake a comprehensive and wide-ranging review covering all aspects of eu expenditure, including the cap, and resources, including the uk reduction, and to report on this in 2008/91. well, today we are in the middle of 2010 and parliament has to ask the other two institutions an oral question to find out whether or not they are going to honour the commitment they should have made last year. and they've already said that, and in some ways they may be right: we are in a difficult economic situation, we are in an economic crisis where most countries are cutting their budgets, and they will think it's absurd to ask for more money for the european union. but i'd like to say two things about it. firstly, these cuts that are being implemented by the countries of the european union are being implemented to reduce the deficit and the budget of the european parliament and the european union has no deficit. in fact, it does not have one because the treaties require it. secondly, and much more importantly, if we really believe in the european project and if we want to remain relevant, we must react now. there will be winners and losers, and if we do not want to be among the losers, we must define a clear and ambitious strategy. i hope this does not remain a declaration of intent, because we cannot afford it.
madam president, welcome to the council and mr commissioner. let's approach this another way. the 2020 strategy, in the 2011 draft budget, talks about 58 billion, 40%, to finance seven flagships, so called by the commission, and yet in cohesion and natural resources for 2011, in its draft budget, it talks about 85% of the total budgeted. and in this 2020 strategy, expressed in terms of the draft budget for 2011, the commission does not include the word 'cohesion' or the word 'agriculture' in any way. this will mean that there will be grey areas in the budget, there will be overlaps - because i am sure that it is the idea of everyone to include cohesion and agricultural policy in this strategy 2020 - it will mean tensions between member states and it will mean, as it has meant until now, unofficial proposals, which appear suddenly, which are criticised and then put in a drawer and are not talked about again. commissioner, there are also new commitments by the council outside the current multiannual financial framework, such as the 'food facility', galileo, the economic recovery programme, iter, financial supervision and the financial stabilisation plan, which are far from the current multiannual financial framework which we adopted in december 2005. we need clarification first of all as to whether all these flagships can be financed without undermining the agricultural policy and cohesion, and whether we will have to make cuts in traditional policies to finance the new priorities which the council is presenting to us. the special committee on the next multiannual financial framework will begin its work in july. we need this review, mr commissioner, which - as i say to some of the colleagues who have already left this chamber - does not necessarily involve an increase in the necessary resources, but possibly a reorganization of them. we need this review, commissioner, precisely in order to be able to carry out both the special committee and the preparation of this financial review in parallel.
member of the commission. − the eu habitats and birds directives as they stand provide the necessary flexibility to ensure compatibility between nature protection and economic development. the commission does not believe that a review would be justified at this stage. the reasons are as follows: the eu nature legislation sets a global model for nature protection – science-driven, legally enforceable and based upon ecosystems as the basic unit. the natura network is one of the most advanced, most extensive and most flexible systems of nature protection in the world. it is one of the greatest achievements of european union environmental policy. biodiversity is a key environmental priority for the commission during its present term. in march this year the council reaffirmed that protected areas and ecological networks are a cornerstone of our efforts to preserve biodiversity and stressed the need to fully implement the birds and habitats directives and speed up completion of the natura 2000 network. we are now at a crucial stage of implementation of the legislation. across europe the process of designation of natura 2000 sites is nearing completion and the priority is now to ensure that the natura 2000 network is effectively managed and properly resourced so that it can fully achieve its objectives. the eu habitats directive is a unique, flexible tool, which allows farming, fishing, forestry, hunting and even major development projects to be carried out in a way that does not destroy the ecological value of our natural heritage. natura sites are not no-go areas where human activities and economic development are to be excluded. most sites are living landscapes which have been shaped as a result of many years of human intervention. designation of a natura site does not mean that economic activities within the site must be frozen. on the contrary, there are many examples such as the port of antwerp – which i visited recently and which is also mentioned in your question – where economic development successfully continues side by side with nature protection. correct implementation of the provisions of the nature directives, early integration of environmental concerns into the planning process and broad information and involvement of all stakeholders are key to such success stories. finally, in view of the fact that we have not met the political target of halting the loss of biodiversity in 2010, we will have to assess the reasons why we have failed. in that context, we will also need to evaluate in detail whether implementation of our existing legislation is effective in delivering biodiversity protection and reflect on what improvements should eventually be made.
the following is the joint debate on the report by raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the gender aspects of the economic recession and financial crisis (2009/2204 (ini)) (a7-0155/2010), the report by ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the evaluation of the results of the work plan on equality between women and men 2006-2010 and recommendations for the future (2009/2242 (ini)) (a7-0156/2010), and the oral question to the commission on the follow-up to the women's rights charter, by zita gurmai and britta thomsen, on behalf of the s&d group, ilda figueiredo and eva-brittson svensson, on behalf of the g/ngl, antony corvanova, on behalf of the group for women's rights and gender equality, and marianne parnell, on behalf of the group for the european people's party, on the evaluation of the results of the work plan on equality between women and men 2006-2010 and recommendations for the future (2009/2242 (ini)) (a7-0156/2010), and the oral question to the commission on the follow-up to the women's rights charter, presented by zita gurmai gurmai and britta thomsen, on behalf of the s&d group, ilda figueva figueva figueva and eva-brittson, on behalf of the g/ngl, ilda figueva/ngl, on the g/ngl, antony corvan parnell/ngl, on the g/ngl, corvan corvan parnell/l, corvan corvan corvan
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not know because it is not the case, but what is clear is that the situation would have been very different from what we have today, in the context of the credit, financial and economic crisis. there is a very clear consensus among economists, whether they're feminist or not, on the fact that the current crises have been caused by a series of institutions that are fundamentally, basically, led by men. so we have an objective fact that makes men directly responsible for this situation. we cannot say that if women had been the majority, instead of men, the situation would have been the same, but what i do think is clear is that it would have been different, both in the cause and in the management of the crisis, and, logically, in the current recovery. what i do think is important to note is another significant fact: those financial agencies, for example, which have a higher presence of women on their management bodies have suffered much less from this type of situation. i think that this is what we are doing with this report. in some ways, what we want to do is to argue that this crisis, in addition to being a very serious problem, is and should be an opportunity to correct some of the issues that have brought us into this crisis, clearly wrongly, and in any case, bad policies or the lack of equality in many of those policies is one of those problems. i want to highlight, to point out very clearly some of the shortcomings that the political responses to this crisis have had and that are not taking advantage of this opportunity, such as the fact, for example, that a gender perspective has never been used in what is called the 'post-lisbon perspective', the strategy 2020. there is, at least so far, no explicit will to have clear policies, macroeconomic policies and guidelines, employment policies, which have a gender perspective in a clear, obvious way, clearly set out in the budgets. it is one thing to have declarations, but what we are interested in here are concrete commitments. this report at least wants to open up this debate and bring to the table some issues which we believe are important. we know that there are some states, some governments, among them i would like to mention the spanish government, which is the presidency, which have led the debate on this subject and have put some questions on the table. i want to not only insist on this issue, to acknowledge it, but also to support the next presidencies, those who are going to go, those who want to go, those who wish to go or who are going, in any case, to raise similar issues. but i think it's important to highlight something else as well. if what we want is to really correct some of these mistakes, it's very important to also understand that, within the causes, there are a number of key elements, and the first of them is the lack of political will to make clear equality policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it's all right to be of good will. what we need are clear commitments, and i insist, binding commitments, commitments which are binding, which are binding, such as, for example, establishing that full employment, both in terms of men and women, but above all of women, must be an objective in itself. and finally, a specific objective is to raise female employment to 75% by 2020 or to reduce the pay gap to zero, at most 5%, which is something we have been asking for a long time. these are measures which are already at least being discussed and which some of us want to make mandatory. we know that both commissioner reding and the spanish presidency have raised these issues repeatedly, and we want to invite not only the other groups, but also the other countries, to understand that this is not a whim, to understand that this is an obligation, it is a necessity and it is, i insist, an opportunity in relation to the crisis we are experiencing and i want, in any case, to end by acknowledging the work, the support and above all the contributions that have been made by the different groups so that this is a consensus text, a text of compromise, and that clearly indicates to us what the problem is, but also what the solution is and should be.
mr president, i would like to thank mr romeva and mrs figueiredo for the work they have done on the reports on gender aspects in the economic crisis and the work plan for equality. this parliament is clear that policies on equality between men and women must be a priority, because we are talking about an important asset, representing 52% of the european population. our strategy must include aspects of conciliation, equal representation, the elimination of stereotypes and the eradication of all forms of gender-based violence. i take this opportunity to ask commissioner reding to comply with the repeated demand of this parliament from a large number of member states and the european women's lobby, which has today launched a campaign in support of the victim protection order. this is not the time to get bogged down in procedural issues that will paralyse this initiative. it is a time for dialogue and understanding. we have over a hundred thousand reasons to act now, without waiting; we just need the political will.
acting president of the council. - mr president, there has been some very interesting talk this afternoon. i congratulate them on their contributions and on these ideas, which undoubtedly have a lot to do with the proposals for overcoming the crisis. commissioner reding said that we already have a lot of documents and that we must take action, and i think that is very good. i think that's what civil society has been asking us since 1995 to governments: to take action. and to take action means to continue to work for real equality and to do so, as mr romeva said, with political will and imagination. real equality means improving women's lives, improving their daily lives, making men and women live better in their daily lives. it has been said many times this afternoon that crisis is opportunity. i agree with this statement. i agree that the crisis also presents us with scenarios of opportunity. for some it is already an opportunity, but we must not forget that there are also risks and setbacks. in the field of equality - and women know this very well - there have always been advances and setbacks. there's never been a breakthrough that didn't come with a setback. and to prevent those setbacks, i think it is important that we do not depart from the european consensus, that we do not depart from the road map that has allowed us to make so much progress together in recent years. and we must not let the member states depart from this road map either, and as the commissioner has rightly said, it is very important that we always follow the commission's recommendations faithfully. i'm done, i won't be much longer. i believe that we cannot leave behind our identity, the coherence of our policies, the policies which have enabled us to show our best face to the whole world, and i agree with mrs figueiredo that in the future, to work along these lines, we must strengthen the coordination of the council, the coordination with the commission, the coordination with the european parliament and, of course, also always be attentive to the demands of civil society. i congratulate you on the debate, on the reports which have been presented to parliament this afternoon. the spanish presidency of the council has 15 days left, so we pass the baton to the belgian presidency. we have tried to make sure that equality is not a stranger in a time as complicated and as politically complex as the one we are currently dealing with, and, of course, the spanish government will continue to work to keep equality at the centre of the european union's agenda.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, you have been so kind and generous throughout the evening in allowing members who wished to speak to speak, and i would not like you to be severe by cutting off the microphone at the end of my speech. that is why i will not repeat what has already been said. i would just like to say to all the speakers that i have taken note of their proposals, of their suggestions. i have particularly noted two recurring concerns: the first concerns the effects of the crisis on women and the second the need for very concrete action. i shall raise these concerns with the college of commissioners and present you with an action programme at the end of september. our strategy will be an action programme which the three institutions, together with the social partners, with the stakeholders, i.e. women's associations and equal opportunities bodies in the member states, will work to put into practice during the four years of their respective mandates. thank you for your cooperation and thank you for the enthusiasm of all of you, and especially of those few men who are standing firm in the midst of all the women.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to start with the frustration mentioned by mrs in 't veld, which we all share, but it is also clear, and we have seen it, that this issue, at least for us, is fundamental, important, vital and we are living it in this way and will continue to do so until some presidents and some women presidents understand that this must be a priority and not just a late-night debate. the second point which i think is important to stress has been expressed in different ways by some of my colleagues: equality is neither a whim nor a superfluous expense, it is an investment. it's a necessary investment, as well as a right. and this is what we have to keep in mind when we talk about these kinds of issues. we must understand that, in the face of a crisis situation such as the one we are living in, investing, devoting effort, time, political will and money to equality is something that demands not only all our ingenuity, but also, clearly, all our political will and our utmost consideration. thirdly, and in a very brief way, i think it is important to stress that if we are to achieve this objective of not only male but also female employment of 75% by 2020, what is important to understand is that this also implies measures to actively promote, encourage and increase the presence of women in the public sphere, but also to encourage and oblige a greater presence of men in the private sphere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if not, we will obviously force women to work those two working days again. and the fourth and last point, which i think is also important, is to be careful not to take advantage of this crisis to cut where it is least necessary to cut. we know that, precisely in the ministry of equality, we have the lowest budgets at the moment and the threat of cuts may signal that this is not a priority issue. that would be a serious mistake and i think it is important that the other countries of the european union not only understand how important this ministry is, but even copy that model for their own countries.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs lena ek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the participation of the community in the joint research and development programme on the baltic sea (bonus-169) undertaken by several member states (com ((2009) 0610 - c7-0263/2009 - 2009/0169 ((cod)) (a7-0164/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, ms ek, and to the 10 members of the european parliament who took the time to be here at a late hour this evening to discuss this issue. i am very satisfied that all article 185 initiatives announced under the cooperation element of the seventh eu framework programme have now been adopted. this is a political achievement for all of the institutions of the european union. the bonus initiative would clearly help the countries of the baltic sea region to address more effectively the very complex and pressing environmental problems in this area by promoting synergies and avoiding the wasteful duplication of purely national research efforts. in view of the key global political problems that we are facing in policy areas such as climate change, energy, food and health, the requirement to pool resources and work together becomes necessary. the article 185 initiatives are playing a key role in tackling some of these key issues. the experience we gain from these initiatives will allow us to find even better and more efficient ways to collaborate at a european level, making full use of both national and community research programmes. as i said at my european parliament ratification hearing last january, i am deeply committed to the complete realisation of the european research area, but we must work together in a spirit of unity and cooperation if we are going to achieve this objective. this is vitally important for the future economic development of the european union and if we are to ensure that the eu becomes a global leader in the fields of research, innovation and science.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the next item is the report by mr carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft council decision on the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis relating to the schengen information system in the republic of bulgaria and romania (06714/2010 - c7-0067/2010 - 2010/0814 (nle)) (a7-0199/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, there is not much to add because there seems to be a very strong consensus here. i fully agree with those of you who have expressed the view that there was indeed a reason to celebrate this week. the schengen area is an achievement of the european union; we can be extremely proud of it. it represents the free mobility of people in a europe without borders and i hope that the schengen area will soon grow with two more members. in the mean time, access to the schengen information system is, of course, a very important first step. there is still some work that needs to be done in these countries on visas, police cooperation, judicial process, organised crime and so on, and we will of course closely monitor this. i myself envisage visiting both countries by the end of the year to show my support and to study progress on the spot. i really want to thank these countries for the progress that they are making at present. as some of you have said, trust is very important in ensuring that the other member states see that there are concrete results, so we can have a happy ending to this story. in this regard, increasing the transparency of the system and increasing the involvement of the european parliament in helping to evaluate and implement is a very important step. that is why i hope that we can work together on this new evaluation mechanism. i would like in my turn to thank mr coelho for the work he has been doing on these two countries and look forward to further cooperation with you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission by mrs doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on sport, specifically as regards players' agents (2010/2646 (rsp)) (o-0032/2010 - b7-0308/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, i believe that we all agree on the importance of sport and that it can be very enjoyable for all of us. i thank you all very much for your input and proposals which will be seriously taken into account. there is no doubt that some eu action is desirable; sports federations do not have the powers to intervene in some of the worse cases of malpractice. such problems now take on a transnational dimension as sport becomes more globalised. the internationalisation of professional sport makes it difficult to adopt a national approach to problems of a systemic nature. the eu can play a coordinating role and help to ensure a harmonised approach to the issue of agents. we might for example use the new competence acquired by the eu for the harmonisation of criminal law. many actors within the sports movement would certainly welcome our support. of course, whatever action we decide to take, we will work closely with the relevant federations and i intend to publish – as you know – a communication on sport very soon and this communication will certainly look at this issue in more detail. it would be wrong to prejudice the discussions which we need to have with you, the parliament, as well as the sports movement itself. i am looking forward to working closely with you to take this issue forward.
a motion for a resolution has been tabled to wind up this debate, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
madam president, my group supports the response of the workers in europe, with the general strikes in greece, portugal and the next one in spain, which is scheduled for 29 september, coinciding with the large mobilization of the european trade union confederation. that's the response that the working men and women are giving to this economic model. ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the market - the unregulated market - and the council that are responsible. no, no, no. i'm not going to. the main parliamentary groups, which signed a consensus, the brussels consensus, the direct translation of the washington consensus, which made us believe that europe could be built without economic intervention and continues to advocate not to intervene in the economy. this is the main problem, which puts at risk the european social model, democracy and the construction of europe, thinking of a europe with great social and territorial cohesion. this is the basic problem, ladies and gentlemen. the main political groups, and i appeal to the social democrats, who are still in that discourse of not intervening in the economy.
madam president, this is an important debate which the european council and the g20 in toronto are preparing with a very ambitious agenda, concerning recovery from the crisis, the specific agenda of the g20 on the economic governance of globalisation, the response to the millennium goals and climate change. and in a minute and a half there is only time to fix our eyes on one object, and that is the social dimension of the crisis, the impact on employment, the destruction of those millions of jobs that have been carried forward by the crisis, which also await a response. i therefore join the voices which have expressed, not concern but dismay, at the emphasis which has dominated the agenda of late on the restoration of convergence and stability, with neglect or ignorance of the strategy aimed at growth and employment. so, in terms of the recovery of employment and decent work, the fight against poverty, the quality of work and the recovery of a culture of duties and responsibilities, which goes through the council and the g20 summit, we must look to people, in particular the idea of inclusive growth and green and sustainable growth. because that involves specifying proposals to change our patterns of production, consumption and transportation to "decarbonise" our economy. the g20 will undoubtedly be discussing budgetary coordination and sanctions, but it must also be borne in mind that the european union has a message to deliver in the implementation of the millennium development goals and, therefore, in the social dimension of globalisation, because this is the first crisis of globalisation and in globalisation.
madam president, i will respect my time and i will be very specific. i will tell the council and the commission exactly what they have to do in a week's time if they want to agree on the financial package. major premise: we are facing a clearer horizon than a while ago, but there are still clouds on the horizon. according to the international monetary fund, "unreported losses by banks" amount to $800 billion. 2.2 trillion dollars is what the international banking system has lent to the economies of the countries of the south that are threatened. the reform of financial markets must be done now, because the important thing is not that there is a crisis - that there may have been one - but that we have put in place the means to navigate within that crisis. secondly, there are major discrepancies between the council and parliament on the european supervisory package. parliament wants those entities which can bring down the system and endanger the real economy to be more closely monitored by a genuinely european authority. that's economic governance. secondly, we want mechanisms to be put in place now to remodel the entities that can bring the whole system down. it is not a question of rescuing them, but of remodelling them and, where appropriate, liquidating them without contagion or rescues that always pay the same. and thirdly, the polluter pays principle requires the sector to set up a fund to pay for the costs of the crisis. the council has one week to do what the larosière report said and to reach an agreement with parliament; if not, the responsibility will be entirely and absolutely on the presidency of the council of the european union.
madam president, the importance of relations with russia for the european union is obvious: a powerful neighbour, a strategic economic and energy partner, and a permanent member of the security council. russia now seems calmer, more serene, thanks to the new start agreement with the united states, the overcoming of the missile shield disagreement and the agreements it has reached with the new government of ukraine. in addition, the tension caused by the intervention in georgia two years ago has been reduced. in this new context we all welcome russia's 'yes' to the recent security council resolution 1929 on iran. that is why we are in a good position to improve relations with russia. i therefore regret, mrs ashton, that there has been no further progress in the negotiation of the new agreement with russia, the new association agreement which requires russia's prior entry into the wto, which is also still unclear. ladies and gentlemen, we need an ambitious agreement covering and regulating energy, investment and trade. clear and legally binding rules are what is needed. i am also naturally in favour of the european union accompanying and assisting russia in its desire to modernise, but the 'partnership for modernisation', the framework for relations set up at the recent summit, should not be an alternative to the agreement mentioned above. i certainly welcome the fact that the presidency is including in this association the effective functioning of the judicial system and the strengthening of the fight against corruption. finally, i also want a united, efficient and coherent policy of the european union towards russia, and i hope that the new bodies of the lisbon treaty - you yourself, madam high representative, and the permanent president of the european council - will help us to achieve this objective of a united and coherent policy.
in writing. − according to the report, a dedicated implementation structure will be set up: baltic organisations network for funding science, or bonus eeig, which will implement bonus-169. bonus eeig will be the recipient of the community contribution, but not necessarily of the contributions of the participating states. even if the participating states will be reminded that the principle of a real common pot is important, each participating state will decide whether to administer its own contribution or whether its contribution will be administered by the bonus eeig. in conclusion, it is a good report, and we have supported it.
in writing. − easy vote, the one on the report on structures for the management of the european satellite radio navigation programmes (tošenovský). we have supported it.
in writing. − easy vote as well, the one on the european earth observation programme (gmes) (2011-2013) (glante), text that we have supported too.
in writing. − this was not at all a controversial report for our group, which is the reason why we supported it with no major debates.
in writing. − this was not at all a controversial report for our group, which is the reason why we supported it with no major debates.
in writing. − this was not at all a controversial report for our group, which is why we supported it with no major debates. moreover, it is good news to have another country, estonia this time, joining us in the euro area.
in writing. − this was not at all a controversial report for our group, which is why we supported it with no major debates.
in writing. − after the adoption of several joint amendments presented by the s&d, alde, epp, the greens/efa and gue, and the inclusion of many other individual additions, some of them coming from our group, we did not see any problem in giving our support to that report, for which we voted in favour at the end.
in writing. − the ludford report on a directive on translation and interpretation in criminal proceedings was adopted as such at first reading. although i supported the gue amendments referring to the regional or minority languages to be taken into consideration, these were rejected. however, the final vote shows huge support for the whole report (637 votes in favour versus 21 against and 19 abstentions).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rejection of the proposal for a directive on the organisation of working time for persons performing mobile road transport activities, because it sought to extend working time in this sector to 86 hours per week, which would increase the risk of accidents on the roads. the adoption of this directive would have serious consequences in terms of safety, social dumping and labour deregulation. how can it be safer for european citizens if motorists, cyclists and pedestrians share the road with drivers of heavy vehicles who are totally exhausted? it's been proven that fatigue has the same effects as alcohol. the protection of workers against excessive working hours is a long-standing problem. it does not matter whether the exploited person is selfemployed or employed; the aim is to protect them from excessive working hours which would lead to increased occupational risks. hence the meaning of my vote.
in writing. − with today's vote, the european parliament contributed substantially to improving road safety in europe. with the decision to maintain the self-employed in the directive, meps have closed a loophole to circumvent working time legislation. now it is essential that this is enforced. then, in the future, employers will not profit from forcing their drivers into false self-employment. the same rules will apply to all, which is common sense, because both the employed and self-employed are human beings who get tired in the same way and become a risk to their lives and those of others. this is an improvement for all drivers who do not have to work endless hours of loading, unloading and waiting, in addition to demanding driving times. we call upon the european commission now to respect parliament's vote and to call upon member states to immediately implement the directive, so that now the self-employed are also included.
in writing. − today's vote on the report on food information to consumers has been a long, exhausting and, to a certain degree too, frustrating vote: the report has been adopted by 562 votes in favour to 67 against, and we have voted in favour because, after all, we have won more than we lost. for instance, we won on aspects such: nano-labelling; mandatory country-of-origin labelling for meat, poultry, dairy products, fresh fruits and vegetables, other single-ingredient products and for meat, poultry, fish in processed foods; for meat, three places if appropriate (birth, rearing, slaughter); mandatory labelling of transfats and hydrogenated oils; front of pack: energy, sugar, salt, fats and saturates; sweetener front of pack; labelling of meat made of combined meat parts ('meat glue'); specification of oil origin (so that you can e.g. avoid palm oil); 'fresh milk' can only be labelled as 'fresh' when its use-by-date is more than seven days after the filling date; 'appetite-enhancing ingredients' must be labelled as such (glutamates); labelling of 'imitation food'; no deletion of nutrient profiles. but, we lost traffic lights! also on national schemes, voluntary and mandatory are not possible; this was a big loss, although we are confident the council will fix that.
in writing. - i voted against resolution rc7-0348/2010 on the european union 2020 strategy because i believe that this strategy is nothing but a mere continuation of the lisbon strategy, whose failure is demonstrated by the current crisis. it is clear that the lisbon strategy has been a failure, as is proved by the current levels of unemployment, unknown in europe since the 1930s. the eu 2020 strategy is continuous and does not imply any change. its poverty reduction targets are very modest, but they are not even going to be achieved, as it does not provide any effective tools to achieve them. in this sense, it's wet paper. the fault for the failure of this model is not just the market, nor the governments, but the main groups in this house who have agreed to move the washington consensus to the brussels consensus. the basic problem is non-intervention in the economy, which impedes european integration and makes cohesion and the existence of a european social model impossible. the unregulated market is putting democracy itself at risk, and that is why i wanted to express my rejection of this policy by voting.
in writing. - i voted against the joint resolution on economic governance because i believe that the current economic model has failed. the fault for this failure lies not only with the market, not with governments, but with the main groups in this house who have agreed to move the washington consensus to the brussels consensus. the basic problem is non-intervention in the economy, which impedes european integration and makes cohesion and the existence of a european social model impossible. the deregulated market is putting democracy itself at risk. the members of my group in this parliament, the gue/ngl, are in favour of the workers' response to the crisis, with the general strikes in greece, portugal and soon in spain. the unions have already announced that there will be a general strike in spain on 29 september, coinciding with the big mobilization called by the european confederation of trade unions. this is the workers' response to this model.
in writing. − although not perfect, we have supported the joint resolution. hot debates have taken place regarding paragraph 12, which remains in its entirety even if we tried to eliminate the second part where it tries to limit deficit and debt via fines.
in writing. we greens are very much in favour of this committee, which should enable us to find strategic lines for the future, thinking of the way out of the current multiple crisis.
in writing. − this was a purely organisational vote and our group had no objections to adopting this proposal for a decision. this is why we simply voted in favour.
in writing. − this was a purely organisational vote and our group had no objections to adopting this proposal for a decision. this is why we simply voted in favour.
mr president, regardless of the contradictory versions of the 'humanitarian flotilla' or the 'strategy of provocation', this parliament must deplore the use of violence and must deplore the irreparable loss of human life. these events have causes and have produced consequences. the consequences, apart from the most painful, which, as i said, are the loss of human life, are the derailment of the peace process, the alienation between israel, the european union and the united states, the separation in relations with the moderate arab countries, the increase in tension in the region, with the iranian nuclear spectrum planning in this whole area and, mr president, i think the breakdown of relations with turkey is also an important fact. mrs ashton has said one thing which i entirely agree with. the restoration of dignity and hope to the palestinian people is in the interests of peace in the region, in the interests of israel's security and, above all, in the interests of the moderates and in the interests of the unity of the palestinian cause. it is true, and we must not lose sight of the fact, that the lifting of the embargo is only one step, an important step, but a step on the road to peace. we know the elements: recognition of a viable palestinian state, security for israel within its borders, a solution to the problem of east jerusalem, the settlement problem, which must be brought to an end, and - i conclude, mr president - other matters. there are two questions to be answered. one is international support and the other is political will. and i am not sure, madam high representative, that there is enough political will at the moment.
mr president, i welcome your words, mrs ashton, committing the european union's efforts in this matter and we will follow up from the european parliament the commitments made by the council and the commission, because, by attacking the humanitarian flotilla, israel has broken its ceiling of impunity in what has been unanimously described as an attack on international law, from the law of the sea to humanitarian law. a violation of international law that disproportionately and monstrously transcends any consideration of israel's security, which, of course, we defend. but israel's security strategy, a preventive security strategy, and the very high thresholds that israel has set itself in security matters, cannot continue to be the yardstick by which everything else is measured. we want - and we will demand that the european union institutions raise this matter before the eu-israel association council - firstly, a credible international investigation into the attack on the flotilla; secondly, the lifting of the blockade of gaza beyond the list system and the resumption of the peace process with a view to the creation and international recognition of a viable palestinian state.
mr president, israel has murdered heroes of humanitarian solidarity, of generosity, of selflessness. i encourage the palestinian government to make the unilateral declaration of independence within the 1967 borders. there is much to investigate, because there is much to judge and condemn, even beyond the resolution we are going to vote on. sooner or later, we should encourage the creation of a moral court, a court that would judge and put a stop to the violent and aggressive state of israel. only in its day was it as it was, and we should follow its jurisdiction, the russell tribunal for war crimes.
as a member of a humanist party, i defend all human rights in all circumstances. that is why i also condemn the violence, including that of hamas. what happened to the flotilla was yet another example of the violence and disproportionate force which the government of israel is systematically using against the palestinian people, with the consent of the international community, which all too often looks the other way. i ask you, mrs ashton, to intervene courageously to lift the blockade, to stop the plan of progressive occupation of the historic territories and to remove the wall, of which we should be ashamed, and to work so that the peace process makes the existence of the two states possible. be brave, mrs ashton, because by calling things by their name, europe and its representatives will also have the respect of the international community.
the following is the joint debate on - the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the annual report on human rights (2008), - the report by heidi hautala, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on eu policies in favour of human rights defenders (2009/2199 (ini)) (a7-0157/2010), - the oral question to the council on the application of council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 by gabriele albertini, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, and vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0056/2010 - b7-0303/2010), and - the oral question to the commission on the application of council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 by albert albertine, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, and vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0057/2010 - b4-0300).
mr president, in this joint debate i shall refer to the resolution on trade in products which can be used for torture, which we are going to adopt tomorrow and which is an opportunity to look more closely at council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, which, although it is an international example, we must strive to improve, both in its implementation and in its formulation. in relation to its implementation, the seven member states which comply with the annual reporting on authorizations of these products and the 12 member states which introduced corresponding criminal legislation in due time should be congratulated. the other member states should follow suit and be more transparent in this area. as regards its wording, it is time to update the list of products in annex ii whose trade is prohibited, so that products with effects similar to those currently prohibited products are added to the list of prohibited products, as the spanish presidency will propose at the end of this month. this would put an end to the situation we are in today, where it is possible to trade in products with similar effects because it is strictly legal. it should be a sign of the european union's international identity that no european defence or dual-use material can be used for actions that disturb peace, stability or security or, above all, that can be used for repressive purposes or in situations of human rights violations, and we have a good instrument to do this.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs. − mr president, for those members who were unable to finish contributions, of course i am always pleased if members of the european parliament get in touch with me to raise particular issues. i just want to say in conclusion to at least part of this that i very much welcome the chance that we have had to have this discussion. sometimes the important parts of our work get overtaken by the urgent and i do believe this parliament has a critical role to play in making sure that we remain true to the founding values that are spelt out in the treaty of lisbon and i quote, ‘respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities’. those, in a sense, are the watchwords for the external action service, just as they should be the watchwords for all that we do as a european union and as member states. a number of honourable members have talked about human rights defenders and the importance and significance of continuing the dialogue with them. i have already made it clear that, where we can, we are working to meet with human rights defenders everywhere that i visit in the world and indeed to invite and see human rights defenders in brussels in my office. recently i met with women from afghanistan to talk about their particular concerns. we will continue to do this. it is an integral part of how the external action service should operate. i know that mrs de keyser cannot be here now but i do take her points very much on looking forward on electoral observation. we do need to look again at having a more coherent strategy, both in terms of the preparation for electoral missions, but also better monitoring in the follow-up to that. her work in monitoring in sudan very much feeds into the way in which i want to take this forward when we have the service operational, so that we get better at what we do and we use the information and knowledge more effectively. i have also described that human rights have got to be the thread that binds us in all the relationships that we have. these are important values that need to be consistently applied to people everywhere regardless, but we need to be sure that we understand what they mean and how we should approach their implementation. it is not about special rights; it is about enabling people to be able to access the rights that they are entitled to. that sometimes means that we have to examine how best to support people. honourable members who, like me, have worked in the field of those with disabilities will know that actually accessing human rights for disabled people requires us to make positive changes. sometimes that is true in other parts of the world, and in other communities as well, but we also need that level of consistency which a number of honourable members have paid attention to. in the declaration on political accountability, which will be a feature of what we do as we move forward with the external action service, i have foreseen the strengthening of exchange of information and access to documents, which i hope will help honourable members in some of the comments that have been made on that. as for structures, i am in discussion on structures but i am not going to be bound into having structures that actually prevent us from dealing with human rights as effectively as i would like. we are ensuring that human rights is a feature of all of the work of all of the delegations, but i believe it is a feature of what everybody should be doing. it is not a silver thread if we simply put it in a box called human rights and put it in a corner. too often that is what i see organisations doing and i will not do that with the external action service. it has to be a clear part of everything i do and everything that all those involved do. mr zemke, i just want to pick up your point about the visa code. the commission did indeed put forward a proposal that would do what i think you were seeking to do. unfortunately, we have not found favour with all member states. any lobbying that the european parliament is able to do on member states would be gratefully received. we are working on a way through this but we have to get all member states to agree to it, so i hope that you will consider that an offer to try and help us with that. in terms of the accession to the european convention on human rights, it is an important objective, very definitely within the lisbon treaty, and we are glad that we have the mandate to work to complete that. but it will be done in parallel with the membership of the individual member states in terms of the obligations that we have. finally, thank you again for this important debate. i have particularly noted the important comments that have been made that will help me be guided for the future and i pay tribute again to the human rights committee for the work that they have done.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation on the korean peninsula.
madam president, thank you very much, mr martin fragueiro, for being here, on behalf of the spanish presidency, in a report like this, madam commissioner. mr milana, congratulations on the ability to reach a common agreement and to bring all the interests together and to put one of the first owninitiative reports on the table. the deployment of aquaculture is important. it is necessary because of the increase in fish consumption and the stagnation of fishing capacity, but i would like to stress at this point the economic importance of this activity which generates economic wealth and employment. health guarantees, sustainability and protection of the marine environment are important. the image of aquaculture and the scientific and research sector must be strengthened. aquaculture is an opportunity, as mr martin fragueiro has said, within the cfp, as the commissioner said. it must be given a coherent framework for coordination; it must be given the possibility of regularization, because aquaculture can mean sufficiency, sustainability and economic resources, and i think this is important for europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a catch documentation programme for bluefin tuna (thunnus thynnus) and amending regulation (ec) no 1984/2003 (com (2009) 0406 - c7-0124/2009 - 2009/0116 (cod)) (a7-0119/2010).
the rapporteur. - mr president, i think that at this stage it is no longer a secret to anyone that the value of this animal is very high, especially in some markets, such as the asian markets. in fact, it is so precious that some traders have cheated and continue to cheat. each year iccat adopts increasingly complex and restrictive management measures, recovery plans, documentation systems, vessel capacity restrictions, and each year the european commission congratulates iccat on its success, stating that the organisation has finally taken the necessary measures to reduce the bluefin tuna 'you-you' fishery and that the situation is under control. but time passes and the measures supposedly designed to ensure their conservation, or better still, their recovery, either do not arrive, or they arrive too late and inadequately. the premature closure of the fishing season for the purse seine fleet just a few days ago, because the quota allocated to the european union had been 'almost' used up in just 10 days, shows that there is still a problem of overcapacity in europe and that this is a major threat to the survival of the species. the stocks have not shown the necessary signs of recovery in the medium term, on the contrary. the situation of over-exploitation of the two bluefin tuna stocks is well known. the spawning biomass of both stocks has been reduced to less than 15% of the uncaught biomass. this, combined with the high prices paid for fish, whether legally caught or not, and the evident difficulties in controlling fishing and trade activities, shows that these efforts of iccat over the last 20 years are, at the very least, insufficient. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. the report we are voting on today is one more, indispensable, undoubtedly necessary and yet insufficient measure. this new regulation, which i am glad to have agreed with the various institutions, is intended to combat illegal fishing for bluefin tuna and to improve the control of bluefin tuna stocks. this system requires that each batch of tuna must be accompanied by the required documentation at each stage, from the moment of its capture, including landing, transhipment, caging, slaughter, import, export and re-export. the documentation must be validated at each stage by the authorities of the competent state, flag state, trap or cage and must include information such as catch data, information on the exporter or seller, information on transhipment, details of the fattening facility, information on slaughter, commercial information in short. after the frustration of many people, including myself, that cites did not include bluefin tuna in its list of endangered species at its last meeting, the ball is now back on the icca roof. we have a new opportunity in november, in paris, to see how decisive the situation is and, above all, to assume that there is no longer time for further extensions, for legal tricks or for false optimistic speeches. in paris we will see whether this time the contracting parties - and the european union is one of them - are really committed, in a strict and scrupulous way, to the scientific recommendations. i know of your personal commitment, commissioner damanaki, and you will have our full support to support precisely this line. this is probably the only chance we have of making real and serious progress in solving this problem, because if we do not, we have another opportunity later, a more drastic, a more difficult one, which will be to bring the matter back to the cites table. the next meeting will be in 2013 and let us not forget that if we do not find the necessary solutions and commitment at cicaa in november, cites will remain and must be a new door to which we must knock when it is appropriate.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i would first like to point out the importance which the spanish presidency attaches to the presentation of this proposal for a regulation for formal agreement at this plenary session of the european parliament. this is important for two reasons, as i shall explain below. the council regulation establishing a catch documentation programme for bluefin tuna and amending regulation (ec) no 1984/2003 incorporates into community legislation, with all the guarantees, iccat recommendations 07-10 and 08-12 establishing the catch documentation programme for bluefin tuna, and in particular iccat recommendation 09-11, which was adopted at the last meeting in recife in november last year and which has also been applicable since 1 june. all these recommendations are in line with the view that the catch document is the key and primary element for the correct identification and full monitoring of bluefin tuna catches. this makes it possible to ensure traceability and to be sure that the tuna consumed comes from controlled catches, made under conditions that ensure its sustainability and under the measures set out in the recovery plan adopted for this species. this control scheme in practice means that every batch of bluefin tuna must be accompanied at every stage of the chain, up to its consumption, by a catch document duly validated by the authorities of the flag state of the fishing vessel, irrespective of the mode of origin, whether from the farm or from the workstation. this new proposal also aims to take account of all the activities related to the catching and fattening of bluefin tuna, and thus to cover all possible cases and situations in order to avoid loopholes where less responsible actions could escape control and jeopardise the whole effort we are making to recover bluefin tuna. in this way, the catch document will allow monitoring of all marketing operations of bluefin tuna from the time of its capture until it reaches the plate and thus the guarantee that the tuna has been caught under the control and surveillance of the competent authorities of the flag state. this document is therefore a very important instrument in the control of bluefin tuna fisheries and the fight against illegal, unregulated and unregulated fishing. i would also point out that this improvement in traceability in the bluefin tuna fishery will also have a clear effect on the scientific evaluation of this stock, since we will have better information on this fishery, which will result in more reliable and reliable scientific evaluations of its situation. apart from the importance of this regulation for the improvement of the instruments for monitoring the bluefin tuna fishery, the spanish presidency is also pleased that it was possible to reach agreement on this regulation at first reading. this shows the interest and willingness of both institutions - the council and the european parliament - to bring forward legislative proposals on fisheries in the shortest possible time. the adoption of this report by this house, which is scheduled for today, will enable it to be finally adopted, as point a, by the council of fisheries ministers on 29 june in luxembourg. i would like to thank all of you for your valuable contributions to the drafting of this text and i hope that it will serve as an example for future proposals, which will have to be adopted under the codecision procedure under the lisbon treaty.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr romeva i rueda, for his work on this report. i am pleased to see the strong support of the fisheries committee on this important proposal. the implementation of the iccat bluefin tuna catch documentation programme is indeed a key measure to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing. i am delighted that the report in particular supports all aspects linked to the practical implementation of the catch documentation which must accompany bluefin tuna products from catch to the trade channel. inspired by the current practices in other regional fisheries management organisations and custom regulations, this catch documentation scheme can only be efficient if applied to all bluefin tuna products, including processed and farmed products. this will ensure the control of traceability of bluefin tuna fishery products landed, farmed, domestically traded, imported or exported from the european union. i would like also to inform you that the commission agrees with nearly all the amendments proposed, most of them resulting from the trilogue between the european parliament, the council and the commission. i would once again like to thank mr romeva i rueda for the report and the fisheries committee for the time spent on this important issue. this report is a significant contribution to a truly efficient traceability system for bluefin tuna and an effective fight against iuu activities.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and on the ease with which he has allowed us all to work with him and to produce a good report. and we are also pleased that, for the first time, we are going to adopt a report on fisheries, under the ordinary legislative procedure, at first reading and with the agreement of the three institutions. the amendments by parliament are mainly aimed at incorporating the new recommendations made at the 2009 meeting of the iccat, as the commission's original proposal only included the 2008 recommendations, and at clarifying and specifying some technical definitions and specifications in order to make the obligations of all operators and each member state involved in bluefin tuna fisheries crystal clear. the aim is to identify the origin of all bluefin tuna entering the eu markets so that, if this origin cannot be ascertained, the marketing of the tuna is prohibited. we have thus obtained, as the rapporteur himself acknowledges in his report, the most complete catch documentation programme for any species, which allows us to send a message of confidence, recalling that the international organisation which regulates the management of bluefin tuna is very capable of reacting on its own in monitoring its situation and in dealing with the illegal fishing networks of a species whose trade has reached a complexity not found in any other species. it is doubtful that, despite the criticism, without the knowledge and experience acquired by iccaa, any other body could have taken such measures with the same knowledge and speed. we therefore hope that the entry into force of this regulation will help not only to restore the species and to combat illegal exploitation, but also to restore a minimum of rationality and objectivity to public opinion and, in particular, to some non-governmental organizations. as the rapporteur has said, the ball goes back to the iccaa, and i would add: it goes back to the iccaa, fortunately, where it should never have left. and i say this on behalf of my group.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we are in the midst of a historic debate. for the first time, parliament exercises the co-decision powers granted to it by the lisbon treaty in the fisheries sector. and it has special significance for those of us who, like myself, live in a fishing community or who appreciate that it has been carried out under the spanish presidency. full participation of direct representatives of citizens in the legislative process strengthens democratic life in the union and increases the legitimacy, quality and effectiveness of the european fisheries policy. this legislative procedure concerns bluefin tuna, a species whose biological status is a matter of concern because it is at risk of extinction and therefore deserves priority attention. the iccat is the regional organisation responsible for fisheries management. its measures, based on scientific reports on the state of the resources, should contribute to their recovery and sustainability. the provisions we adopt today incorporate their recommendations on catch documentation. this is an essential element for the protection and management of resources, for their effectiveness. ensuring traceability from catch to the final stage of the marketing process is essential to combat illegal fishing and trade and, consequently, to promote sustainable fishing and responsible trade. its implementation will make better and stricter control possible by the european union. the international commitments have been incorporated in full fidelity, without any changes that would distort them. in addition, to allow for a dynamic reception of future adaptations, the new possibilities of the lisbon treaty to delegate to the commission powers to implement new conservation measures have been used. for all that, i am satisfied with the result. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr romeva, and the other members with whom i have co-signed the text to be put to the vote today.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, the other groups, the council and the commission for the agreement we have reached at first reading. this regulation, which has been improved by the amendments tabled by the various parliamentary groups, transposes into community law all the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccaa). it involves the establishment of a stricter certification system in order to improve the control of bluefin tuna catches, to eliminate illegal fishing and to improve the quality and availability of statistical data, which are so necessary for its control. it is intended to control the tracking of the product from its capture to its placing on the market - in short, to control its traceability - a measure which is necessary for greater protection of bluefin tuna, taking account of recovery plans for bluefin tuna, and for better protection, given the situation in which we find ourselves at the moment. finally, i would like to stress that this is the first time that parliament has used its decisionmaking power since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and i hope that it will not be the last, given the bad experience we have had in other cases.
i would like to thank mr romeva for his report, which really emphasizes the need to protect tuna. i think there is only about 15% left of the entire bluefin tuna population. i think that the bluefin tuna, which we have been working on for many years in this house to prevent its disappearance, is quite a symbol, is it not? it is a symbol that has a lot to do with what is happening in the european union, with what is happening to all europeans. what happens when the market is not regulated? when the market is not regulated, jobs and species and the environment are put first. this is a principle which, unfortunately, we have to suffer from. the workers and the species have to suffer, and the planet as a whole, climate change. when the market is not regulated, it is obviously insatiable, until resources are exhausted. that is why this report, with the help of the commission and the council, is so important. what's the point? so that we can put a stop to industrial techniques, to predatory techniques which do not take into account the need to maintain the natural environment and species. and they can't pay the righteous for the sinners. mr romeva knows my position on the need not to punish the mattresses. i know that the cod is an ancient fishing technique that has never put tuna at risk - and mr romeva shares this view - and it is therefore a matter of the european union taking seriously all the technical reports and recommendations on catch documentation and traceability in paris in november, so that we can all make work compatible with the natural environment, which is a fundamental principle that should be part of the values of the european union.
mr president, congratulations, mr romeva, on bringing us all together. and i really want to talk about your report, because we always talk about tuna, about sustainability criteria, we link it to illegal fishing, to a fraudulent situation and, however, we do not see the positive side, which is the determination of the population and its compliance, which is what each state must do and we must be vigilant. but this report, which is fighting against illegality, is also a complement to the instruments of security, because it is the quality of work that will be examined here, the control measures. this is the implementation of an international decision, it is the most rigorous way of guaranteeing commitment, and i am pleased, mr romeva, that you and the whole fisheries committee have worked to ensure that this document was adopted at first reading by the spanish presidency to protect bluefin tuna.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would again like to thank the rapporteur and everybody for the very good interventions. i would like to repeat that this report will help us to have very good catch documentation, and i hope we will use it. i hope it will be a very useful instrument in our effort. the eu has to give the message that iuu fishing is unacceptable and that this applies to our vessels – to eu vessels – but it also applies to vessels under other flags. i would like to say that we will do all we can to persuade everybody that we have to cooperate in order to avoid this iuu fishing. we can do that. we have weapons and we will use them. concerning the general discussion on the bluefin tuna issue, i would like to say that we have to face the problem as it is now. we already have a scientists’ decision, and we have to respect it, but we also have the iccat efforts. we work there, we can use the iccat efforts, we can do our best. on behalf of the commission i can say that you can be sure that we will do our best to protect this species. i understand that you have a very difficult situation here, and we have the very difficult situation because the price of this fish is very high. we are talking about a lot of money in the international market, so it is not an easy battle. what i can say is that we can use all our weapons. i would like to remind you that underestimating our weapons is not the proper way forward. we have the weapons and we are going to use them. i have already used them, and you need only take notice of what my friend mr cadec said in his intervention. as regards the future, we will see after the scientific advice during november what will happen. we are doing our best to cooperate with member states and the council to reach a satisfactory decision.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will just make a couple of final remarks. firstly, i want to be very honest and say that this has been a report which we could call 'easy'. there was a consensus from the start, from all the groups, and i think we must recognize this, in the sense that we all agree that there is a problem of control, that more control is needed and, above all, that we must be much more not only transparent but also forceful with those who do not comply with the rules. because this is detrimental to the tuna, first of all, and to those who do and want to do things right, secondly. i think that needs to be acknowledged and i welcome that. it was therefore relatively easy - very easy, i would say - to reach a consensus on parliament's report and, perhaps a little more complex, to reach agreement with the other institutions, but it was nevertheless possible, and i am pleased about that, for this document to be transposed and to become a reference in europe and, i would say, the world in terms of marking, traceability and, above all, transparency in terms of the activity of catching and monitoring or marketing bluefin tuna. another thing will be - and we shall see this in the coming months and years, if we have the chance - how we understand other measures which are also necessary. and here it is clear that we have very different views. in any case, i think that the next meeting of the iccaa will give us a little more insight into the seriousness of the situation, which we agree is serious. where we disagree is on how serious it is. and here's where it seems to have some nuances. how much we are willing to apply the precautionary principle and how much risk we are willing to take still. especially considering that no one can tell us exactly what the population situation is, because no one has gone down to count how many animals there are. so, we all clearly work with probabilities. but here it is also important to make another mention. i think what mr milana said about the control agency is important. we have had the opportunity to visit the agency recently and there we have seen not only how important and vital the work they do is, but also how necessary it is that they have the political support and the resources to do their job well. i think it is essential that the governments of the member states understand the fundamental role of this agency. we must support their work because it benefits not only the tuna, not only the sector that does things right, but also the environment and sustainability much more than today. so i thank all the groups, i thank the two institutions, commissioner damanaki, the spanish government - the president-in-office of the council - and in that sense, let us simply start working from today on the implementation of this report, especially - i insist - bearing in mind that, unfortunately, this will solve part of the problem, but not the fundamental problem, and this will require us to have many more discussions and many more commitments than we have made today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − human rights defenders are in need of our support all around the world. these are courageous people who often put themselves in great danger to defend the rights of others. they deserve our support now. the report is only the beginning of the hard work. policies must be developed, activities must be monitored and results analyzed to deliver on our promise. i have very supportive of hautala´s report, and, as she is, i am also very pleased to see that the parliament has now sent a strong signal to the high representative and all commissioners working in the field of external relations, telling them to systematically meet with human rights defenders when they officially travel to third countries. we also stress the responsibilities of eu delegations abroad to support them.
in writing. the commission's proposal is based on a long-term approach to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. it is based on the analyses contained in reports published by the committee of european securities regulators (cerv) and the european securities markets expert group (esme). the conclusions of a study by the centre for strategy and evaluation services (cses) and an open internet consultation were also taken into account. however, our group considers that there are still important uncertainties which led us to abstain in the vote on this report in plenary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the definition of the documentation to accompany catches of bluefin tuna. i think that these control measures make it difficult for illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing to occur, so they are going in the right direction. the bluefin tuna is a symbol of what is happening in the eu, of what happens when the market is not regulated: it takes away jobs, the environment and species like bluefin tuna. the market is insatiable and it's draining resources. the depletion of fisheries resources is an environmental but also a social problem. they can't pay the just for the sinners. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the european union must take the technical reports on bluefin tuna which will be produced at the next meeting of the iccat seriously. we must make an effort to make the eu work in harmony with the natural environment, biodiversity and sustainability.
in writing. − i am very glad the ep supported my proposal of report on such an important issue. the new bluefin catch document is a welcome and valuable addition to the system slowly being put in place to regulate the bluefin tuna fishery, but by itself, it is not going to save the species from collapse. after many years of over-exploitation, including large catches taken illegally by eu and other fleets, bluefin tuna is severely depleted. commissioner damanaki recognized this by supporting a ban on international trade in bluefin earlier this year at cites, which would have had the effect of significantly reducing catches, bringing them more in line with scientific advice. if the european union is to be consistent in its policy on bluefin tuna, then it must behave more responsibly at the next meeting of iccat, to take place in paris from 17-27 november. for many years, the eu used its very considerable influence in iccat to push for quotas that were far higher than scientific advice, while at the same time not putting in place strict monitoring of the fishery. as a result, quotas were sometimes exceeded.
in writing. − the adoption of this report opens a six-month period for each member state concerned to inform the european parliament and the council in writing of its intention to follow up the recommendations made in the evaluation reports and referred to in the follow-up documents which are still pending.
in writing. - the ep takes a further step forward in terms of transparency by calling on the commission to implement more rigorously the european code of good practice in statistics, which will strengthen the independence, integrity and accountability of the national statistical institutes and the commission (eurostat), in order to promote the application of the best statistical principles, methods and practices at international level by all those publishing european statistics, in order to optimise their quality. we also call on the council and the member states to accept without reservation the need for regular dialogue and comprehensive monitoring visits by the commission (eurostat), which will strengthen the control over the data published and provide a permanent guarantee of the quality of the data. we ask the council to increase its support for the activities of olaf, whose role we consider indispensable for the protection of the financial interests of the european union and therefore of its citizens, and essential for defending the reputation of the european institutions.
in writing. - the ep adopted the report on the gender aspects of the economic recession and financial crisis, making today a very important day for so many millions of women in europe, because for the first time since the crisis became apparent, it is being discussed in a gendered way. i am pleased that once again it was the european parliament that has led the way for the other institutions, in this case with an own-initiative report that finally puts gender issues on the table of the debate on how to get out of the economic crisis. the report highlights that gender inequalities are part of both the causes and the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. firstly, the composition of the decision-making bodies of financial institutions is clearly unbalanced. at european level, its three financial institutions (ecb, eib and eif) are led by men, with only 10% of women in their senior decision-making bodies. this has led to a culture of risk-taking of catastrophic consequences.
in writing. − i am glad this report was adopted, it represents a true milestone for improving the eu record on gender equality for all―including transgender citizens. it states clearly that gender equality strategies must explicitly address issues linked to gender identity, and thus sets a clear position on transgender people's fundamental rights in the future. the european parliament showed today that the rights of transgender people are of no less importance than other citizens’. it sent a strong signal, and i trust the commission will follow our lead and start addressing discrimination based on gender identity more explicitly.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption of this resolution, particularly in that it welcomes the 'study on sports agents in the european union' commissioned by the european commission, the results of which are now available, and expresses its particular concern at the results of the study as regards criminal activities in connection with sport and the cases cited where sport has been affected by organised crime associated with the activities of player agents; considers that these developments are detrimental to the image of sport, its integrity and, ultimately, its role in society;
in writing. − as for the resolution on the eu-russia summit only one of our amendments was adopted, notably the one calling on russia's authorities to put an end to the ongoing and widespread impunity for violence against human rights defenders in the north caucasus. in the end most members of our group abstained, being me one of them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution condemning the israeli military attack on the flotilla carrying humanitarian aid to the gaza strip because i deplore state terrorism and i deplore the blockade of gaza. the eu cannot allow the gaza strip to remain blockaded. we must hold this crime against humanity to account. it cannot go unpunished and the eu has the political and criminal tools to do so. israel continues to violate the annapolis accords by continuing with settlements. israel doesn't even honor the agreements it signs. the eu has an association agreement with israel, the second article of which makes it conditional on respect for human rights. why doesn't the eu freeze it? why don't you call your representatives in israel for consultations? the more than 9 dead and 400 arrested are more than enough reasons. terrorist acts can be committed by people in uniform or out of uniform. we are dealing with a clear case of state terrorism, and i therefore believe that the israeli government must be punished in accordance with international law. you have the blood of innocent people on your hands.
in writing. like my colleague, dany cohn-bendit, i believe that we must find ways of breaking the blockade, including the mentality that exists among us, among the israelis and the palestinians. all the entrances must be opened: the eu can and must ask for the control of these entrances with the turkish army, for example. ironically, the turkish army could, together with german soldiers, control the entrance to gaza to ensure the passage of foodstuffs and construction materials and to prevent the entry of weapons. let us be at the service of opening the blockade and give ourselves the instruments to open it. it is said that many europeans, especially germans, have a bad conscience towards israel. but a guilty conscience doesn't make for good politics. if we want to have a clear conscience, we must tell the israelis that what is happening is far beyond the bounds of what is acceptable.
in writing. − i welcome that the european parliament, aroused by an ngo report, now calls for concrete measures to implement compliance to the standards of the eu export ban on torture instruments. after all european countries are violating the eu export ban of 2005. german companies for example delivered foot chains to the united arab emirates, pepper spray from germany was exported to cameroon, china and india, where it was used to torture prisoners. the czech republic exported electro-shock devices among others to pakistan and moldova. unfortunately, in the resolution, the responsible countries are not mentioned. therewith the parliament has stopped halfway. since the global fight against torture must not remain a lip service. those responsible must be identified and held accountable for their actions. the eu commission must now insist that all member states comply with the prohibition policy of 2005.
in writing. - i voted against the joint resolution on the situation on the korean peninsula and, in particular, on the explosion of the south korean corvette cheonan. i have done so because i believe that this joint resolution validates the results of the unilateral investigation carried out by the south korean military, together with the military of the united states and other countries. i do not think that these countries could have come to objective conclusions without allowing north korea, which is allegedly responsible for the explosion of the corvette, to be involved. that is why the group of the european united left - nordic green left calls in our resolution for an independent inquiry to be carried out under the auspices of the united nations in order to clarify the facts. we also ask that this incident not trigger a military escalation on the peninsula. to do so, the two koreas, as well as their allies, must refrain from any action or statement that would lead to it. we insist that the only solution to end the tensions between north and south korea is dialogue based on mutual respect.
in writing. − unfortunatelly, the majority of groups decided to limit the text to the sinking of the vessel and not to say a word about the absolutely dramatic situation of human rights in north korea, which we learnt more in detail about in the hearing of the subcommittee human rights in april. the argument was that a special report on human rights in north korea is in the pipeline in the subcommittee for july, latest september. according to my research after the meeting, such a report can only be expected next year, the subject has not even been decided by the coordinators. our group regrets that we have now missed out on the chance to raise the issue this session, when we could have discussed it with ms. ashtron. therefore green/efa has not signed the compromise, because we believe that the groce human rights violations the north korean leadership commits against its people on the inside cannot be separated from the aggressive behavior of the dprk authorities on the outside.
in writing. - i voted against this report on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina because it does not address the root of the problem: the continuation of the international protectorate - with the participation of the european union - and the failure of the international community to guarantee the citizens of bosnia the right to decide their political future. the report also welcomes the significant contribution of operation althea to the stability and security of bosnia and herzegovina, rather than calling for an end to the international military presence and the european security and defence policy missions. the group of the european united left - nordic green left has always rejected the european union's neo-colonial policy in the balkans in general and in bosnia-herzegovina in particular. we are committed to giving the people of bosnia the opportunity to choose their own government, just as we are demanding an end to the international protectorate. this requires the closure of the office of the united nations high representative and special representative of the european union, and the end of the international presence in bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. − i am glad that in the final vote of the report on bosnia all of our 4 amendments were adopted which go along with the other 27 that were adopted by the afet committee. big achievement then!
in writing. − i am glad the crucial paragraphs for us, specially numers 17, 18 and 21 concerning environment, as well as 22 regarding social policy, were voted favourebously to remain in the text, which motivated our final positive vote to the whole report.
in writing. − this resolution on the 'first railway package implementation', was already supported by us in tran committee vote and yet tabled. important to remind is the fact that we deplore tha a large majority of 22 member states have not yet implemented properly the three directives of the first railway package.
in writing. − after the impact of the floods also in some regions of the southwest of france, many of us suggested france should also be included among the countries mentioned in the resolution to receive particular attention. despeite the resolution did not mention some of our amendments concerning the kioto protocol references, we, greens, strongly supported the final text.
in writing. − i have supported this report which includes, among others, the following requests. first, it urges the commission, with the cooperation of the member states in the council, to produce proposals as soon as possible for the creation of a network of legal training bodies across the union accredited to provide familiarisation courses in national, comparative and european law for members of the judiciary on a stable, ongoing basis; and second, calls on the commission to consult parliament on separate plans for the creation of an institution building upon existing structures and networks, in particular the european judicial training network and the academy of european law.
in writing. − environmental problems with aquaculture are multitude. it can cause local pollution if farms are placed in poor sites or in too great a density; escaped fish can interfere with reproduction of local stocks (genetic pollution); high densities favour diseases and parasites that must be fought with antibiotics, vaccines, etc; there are animal welfare concerns over the conditions of the animals. probably the most important problem, though, is that for many species of farmed fish, including the most popular ones such as salmon, the farmed animals must be fed with fish - so we have the absurd situation of fishing to feed fish that are reared in cages. herbivorous species such as carp do not have this problem, though. fish accepted a number of our amendments that were intended to counter these points - to insist that european aquaculture must concentrate on herbivorous species, that depletion of wild fish stocks to feed farmed fish is not sustainable, that subsidies for aquaculture must be based upon environmental impact assessments.
author. − mr president, i am speaking on behalf of my colleague, jean lambert, who is not able to be here with us. she is the chair of the delegation for relations with south asia, which covers nepal. she wanted us to say the following. it is clear that in the last few years nepal has made many positive changes, as outlined in the joint resolution, under difficult circumstances. however, not surprisingly, in this developing situation we have seen both setbacks in implementation of the peace agreement and a failure to meet the deadline of 28 may this year for the delivery of the new draft constitution which would permanently entrench the principles of democracy and human rights. the constitutional assembly has now been extended for one year under a three-point plan agreed between the three major parties at the last minute to deliver on both the peace agreement and the constitution. we consider it very important that this opportunity rooted in the elected body is not lost. there is a need for a constitutional and political civil society in order for greater development to take place. there are possibilities for the significant development of renewable energies, but investment will be difficult without stability, democracy and the rule of law firmly in place. integration of the former maoist combatants is urgent both for those individuals themselves and as a signal of real progress for the democratic process. we consider that the international committee, including the european union, is willing to assist with practical measures if necessary, but regret the withdrawal of unmin in a few weeks’ time if progress has not been made. as has been said, nepal has made significant progress towards embedding a democracy in the new republic and we would urge all parties involved to move forward on the three-point plan. failure to do this would risk losing the trust of the nepali people. their opportunity for real development is closely linked to political progress.
author. - mr president, we must nevertheless welcome this resolution which reviews the eighteen executions that took place in libya, and obviously condemn the death penalty in that country while calling on the libyans to take steps towards a moratorium; we must also ask for transparency and statistics. it should be remembered that the names of those executed have not been revealed and that among the 18 persons there are also people who do not have libyan nationality. the resolution, which deals with the question of refugees, the failure of the libyan policy to protect migrants and the responsibility of the member states for migration policy, is to be welcomed. it is unthinkable to consider migration cooperation with libya as long as libya has not ratified the geneva convention on refugees. the reference to refoulement, which is contrary to that convention and to the fundamental principles of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights, in particular articles 18 and 19 thereof, is essential. let me also mention the idea of using the current negotiations on the conclusion of a framework agreement with libya as a potential lever to move towards respect for international human rights conventions and ratification of the geneva convention on refugees. the lisbon treaty, and in particular article 218 thereof, gives parliament more rights, including the right to be informed by the commission, on the same basis as the council, of the state of the negotiations on the agreement. that is why the european parliament will be firm on this issue.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission subscribes to the views expressed by honourable members in the various motions regarding the recent executions of 18 people in libya. the commission condemns executions as they are in contradiction with our values. we consider capital punishment to be cruel and inhumane, failing to deter criminal behaviour and representing an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity. the commission is particularly disturbed by the fact that these executions have taken place just weeks after libya was elected to be a member of the united nations human rights council. in this context, the eu, in conformity with the eu guidelines on the death penalty, has made a démarche towards the libyan authorities to express our condemnation and to remind libya of its legal obligation – contained in article 14 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, ratified by libya on 15 may 1970 – to provide all possible safeguards to ensure a fair trial. in this démarche the eu has also encouraged libya to establish a moratorium with a view to considering the abolition of the death penalty for all crimes. the commission is committed to continuing the policy of engagement with libya that the council has decided. in this context, the conclusion of the framework agreement between the eu and libya will provide the legal basis for establishing a regular dialogue and cooperation on all human rights issues. negotiations on the framework agreement are progressing well. the seventh round of negotiations took place last week in tripoli and the commission can report that good progress has been made, especially regarding political issues. in conclusion let me stress that the commission is fully aware that certain topics are problematic in relations with libya. nonetheless, the commission is committed to developing the eu-libya dialogue further on the basis of mutual trust in order to be able to address all issues in an open and constructive manner, including very sensitive ones as in this case. libya has shown its strong will to deepen relations with the eu. while considering this very positive, the commission intends to put these relations on the basis of a growing respect for fundamental values and rights.
author. − mr president, i have several oral amendments. i can read them out together and then we can vote them all together. in recitals a and c, replace the words ‘civil war’ with ‘armed conflict’. in recital n, replace the word ‘pla’ with ‘former maoist combatants’, and in paragraph 7 add ‘former’ to ‘maoist combatants’. in recital d, replace the word ‘terminate’ with ‘abolish’ (the monarchy). in paragraph 12 replace the word ‘demise’ with ‘abolish’ (the monarchy again). in paragraph 9, replace ‘cpn/n’ with ‘ucpn/n’. in recital k, replace the word ‘over’ with ‘close to’, and adding as well the 30%, and add ‘one of’ to ‘the highest literacy rate’. in paragraph 1, add ‘a permanent constitution’. in paragraph 15, remove the last part of the sentence ‘regrets, however, that its status as an independent body has not been enshrined by law’. in paragraph 20, take out the word ‘revolutionary’ before ‘land reform commission’. these are all the oral amendments. i have the feeling that everybody agrees with them so this is simply for the record.
mr president, i want to talk about financial supervision, the only real concretization of that ethereal idea we call economic governance, and i have to say that we are in a veritable ceremony of confusion. this morning the president-in-office of the union said that we were close to an agreement. it has urged us to move and that, both statements, is to economize on the truth. we are not close to an agreement, and it is not for the council presidency to tell the others that we are moving; what it has to do is move in the direction i am going to say. the council's agreement, as has been said here, is an agreement of the minimum, an agreement which is desired by european authorities whose sole competence is to propose technical harmonization rules for a uniform interpretation of european law. you don't need a purse for that trip. the commission could have done so with article 290 and with the help of the committee of banking supervisors, which is in place. what parliament has said is: firstly, that pan-european banks should be supervised by a genuinely european authority, strong and subject to the control of this parliament; secondly, that banks whose bankruptcy may drag us all along should be subject to special surveillance; thirdly, that when one of these banks runs into difficulties, the banking authority should have a toolbox to prevent contagion, restructure the bank or liquidate it in an orderly manner without the caskets falling on the heads of the taxpayers; and fourthly, that there should be two funds pre-financed by the sector itself, in accordance with the principle of 'who pollutes, pays', so that we do not all have to pay for what crispin charitably called the irrational excess of a few. the first time i saw a senior representative of the spanish government, mr barroso, was on monday. before the start of the spanish presidency, they were handed over to you ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, mr van rompuy, mr barroso, i share with you something that i think it is necessary to say, and that is that, indeed, at last thursday's meeting the european council took very important decisions, decisions which were unthinkable only four months ago. i think we have to be brave to say it. i believe that, as in a historical constant, crises move europe. and certainly this crisis, as you have said, very important and very serious, has also led to a series of decisions, to paths that are being explored and which are very important in the construction of europe. one of the decisions taken by this european council - and not the least, although it has not been commented on - is the decision to reform the treaty and to convene an intergovernmental conference to reform protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon. this means, ladies and gentlemen, that it has been agreed to add 18 new members to this house and that 12 member states will be entitled to fairer representation than we currently have. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the fact that the council has taken a decision to increase the number of representatives of this parliament and that today, if i am not misinformed, the intergovernmental conference has already taken this decision of the 27. and i congratulate you, mr van rompuy, on this decision and i urge you to support the ratification by the 27 member states of this decision, which gives this parliament a more adequate representation and 18 new members the right to represent their european citizens as well.
mr president, you used a beautiful image in the european economic and social committee, mr van rompuy. he said that in the economic and financial crisis we had wanted to build the lifeboats during the crossing. it was indeed so, because the ecofin that preceded the last european council is the one that took certain measures that were unthinkable in some countries, some of which i know very well. and so now the point is that this should not happen again in the future and that we should therefore build the lifeboats earlier. i have listened very carefully to what you have said. you mentioned 'strict supervision of the national budgets'. i agree with you. but then you added that it was not the commission's job to monitor national budgets before they were approved by the houses. well, i heard it from commissioner olli rehn. and besides, i think it's a good idea, that we should explore it. "de l'audace, encore de l'audace, toujours de l'audace", as a french revolutionary would say. because i do not care, mr president van rompuy, to be under the protection of the european union. i would rather be under the protection of the european union than under the protection of rulers who rule by banditry and improvisation. and so, whatever avenues we have, we're going to pursue them. secondly, it has been said here by some that because they are not in the euro they do not care what happens to the euro. well, i do worry about what happens to national currencies that are not in the euro, because that is being european. and, if those currencies ever get into trouble, it's going to worry me, because it's going to affect the economy of all of us. and one last note, mr president. i know that in times of crisis, it is more difficult to talk about the fight against poverty, because there are fewer means. but i think what has made us europeans greater is the fight against social exclusion and poverty. and i ask, please, that the year 2010, which is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, should not be just another conclusion of the european council. let us, mr president of the commission, pursue active policies in this field.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy their holidays in the summer months. in fact, the maritime passenger transport and cruise ships have grown very significantly and are an essential factor of development and wealth in both coastal and port europe and inland europe. for all the entrepreneurs, the workers and, of course, the travellers in this important sector, the european parliament has good news today, because the agreement we have reached with the council, with the great help of the commission, is to establish a common framework of travellers' rights, such as those already enjoyed by air and rail travellers. this is an unacceptable shortcoming for a sector which is in the midst of modernisation and expansion. this agreement, which was concluded under the spanish presidency - to which i am particularly grateful for the efforts of the spanish presidency, the other permanent representations and, of course, my colleagues and the services of this house - substantially improves the rights of passengers, particularly those with reduced mobility, as the disabled associations have insistently asked us to do. on the one hand, the scope is widened, in line with parliament's initial position, that is to say, all vessels of more than 12 passengers are covered by this regulation, but a certain flexibility is allowed for small companies offering excursions, historic vessels, ferries carrying lorry drivers and carriers making short river journeys and who might have too many costs in the immediate implementation of this first provision. parliament has also succeeded in removing any mention of the possibility of being denied boarding on the grounds of disability, limiting it to situations where, for safety reasons, the safe transport of the person is endangered. the council also gave up the possibility of refusing boarding on health grounds, which was highly controversial since it was the first time that a passenger regulation made reference to health. the time for which passengers are entitled to compensation has also been improved from 120 to 90 minutes; a per diem of 80 euros per night has been obtained in the event of an overnight stay; from 120 to a total of 240 we have obtained double that amount; provision has been made for the obligation to place the burden of proof on the carrier in the event of exceptional circumstances which exempt him from compliance with his obligations, as well as the need to adapt equipment in ports, etc. we have also succeeded in reducing the maximum ceiling on the ticket for reimbursement, from the initial 40 euros to 24. it should also be noted that the regulation provides the flexibility necessary for the particularities of this mode of transport, which is more prone to delays due to bad weather, so that certain provisions, such as those relating to financial compensation for delay or accommodation, will be excluded from the obligations in the event of bad weather. finally, it should be noted that the agreed text requires the member states to set up bodies which, in addition to ensuring that this regulation is properly applied, are independent of commercial interests and can also generate a whole system of penalties, as well as deal with complaints from passengers who have been rejected at first instance in a body which carriers will also have to set up. we have also succeeded in this regulation in enabling the associations of disabled people and travellers to participate actively and we have also succeeded in encouraging a little bit the port authorities to become more involved in the decisions that are applied, so we have proposed that, wherever possible, the whole regulation should also apply to ports and not just to terminals, as the council proposed. i think we have also achieved - and this is important because it was one of the historical requests of disabled people's associations - that staff training and updating on that training should also be part of this regulation. and we've also secured the quick replacement of mobility equipment, in case it has been damaged during the journey, with a suitable alternative. finally, we have succeeded in reducing the time taken to implement it by one year. i therefore think that this was a good negotiation and i thank all those who have helped us to bring good news to european travellers for once.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs ayala for all the efforts she has made, as rapporteur on this dossier, to reach the agreement we are discussing today. the alde group has maintained a positive attitude from the outset with the introduction of amendments which take up those of the first reading and, after the corresponding trilogues, we have finally reached what i consider to be a good agreement. mrs ayala has already made a very thorough analysis of all the agreements, but i would like to emphasize the reference to the scope, which will include all vessels of more than 12 passengers, and the minimum ticket price of six euros, so that passengers can be compensated. i should like to emphasize the great effort made and the improvements which this regulation will bring to passengers in general, but especially to people with reduced mobility or disabilities. i should point out that throughout the article there is a reference to accessible formats when reporting, in order to provide information transparently to all citizens. i am glad, although there has been some rather important work and discussion, that the reference to health has been removed when denying the sale of tickets to disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility, the only reason for a refusal of these characteristics being safety. i should also like to point out that the time taken to provide a transport solution or to compensate passengers has been reduced by one third since the initial proposals: from the initial 120 minutes to the 90 minutes we agreed in the texts. we also agree to the compensation of 80 euros. in short, this regulation will provide greater guarantees for users.
mr president, the sagrada familia, the work of the brilliant catalan architect antoni gaudí, is a true icon of barcelona in the world and in 2005 was declared a unesco world heritage site. the high-speed train is currently being built, and it will pass through the city through a tunnel that is only four meters from the foundation of the sagrada familia. there are 38 technical reports opposing this work. icomos, a specialized agency of unesco, has expressed concern about the route. the spanish congress of deputies also approved on 22 june a motion calling for the precautionary suspension of the works and the creation of a committee of experts which could propose a solution within two months. i would like to know what measures the commission is going to take to preserve such an emblematic building as the sagrada familia in barcelona in view of the risk posed by the passage of the high-speed train.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues and the commissioner and vice-president, mr kallas, for their kindness and encouraging words. i would like to make a few comments on what mrs lichtenberger said about ports. i think you've misread the text. it is true that we have not succeeded in including all ports - because there are some ports which are simply a jetty - but there are obligations for ports, for example, all new or renewed ports are obliged to provide all the accessibility and equipment, something which we have justly forced the council to remove from the clause in which it was excluded. annex ii, if you read it, mrs lichtenberger, you will see that it is precisely the obligations for assistance in ports and port terminals that it refers to. and we have also included, despite the council's reservations on several points, the port authorities, precisely so that they are increasingly aware of the needs of people with reduced mobility. so ports do have obligations. the ports are included and therefore it is not only the ships and the vessels but also the port terminals and the ports that have obligations. as regards the exceptions to flexibility, i am grateful to both mr kuhn and mrs wortmann-kool for their comments. i think we have made an effort to be flexible and to help small businesses in a time of crisis. i understand that mr cramer is angry because it is true that our interlocutors are mostly large companies, but because european associations, and that is why they are european associations, include small and large companies. the fact that our interlocutors are sometimes, or often, those representing large companies does not mean that small companies are not represented in european associations. i think we've made an effort to understand all of them. finally, i would like to thank mrs bilbao in particular for her support and solidarity in improving the rights of disabled people. i am particularly grateful to you for your emphasis on the whole issue of accessible formats, on the fact that the council has finally given up on the health issue - which i think was a risk that will have to be worked on in the future, but certainly not now - and also on all the reduction of deadlines and improvements. finally, i would like to thank all my fellow alternative rapporteurs and, above all, congratulate european passengers because we now have 24 months for the sector - carriers, operators, terminals, ports, port authorities and member states - to prepare. and then we'll have to apply it. and by the time it comes into force, mr kallas, mr vice-president, i have a specific request. i see that you are going to launch a magnificent campaign of information and awareness on the rights of passengers in aviation. i would ask you, and i would like you to commit yourself, that in 24 months' time, when the regulation on passenger rights in the maritime sector comes into force, there will be a campaign at least as great as the one you are going to prepare for the airline sector. i think the citizens of europe deserve it.
in writing. it is very important to avoid discrimination against those affected, such as myself, with reduced mobility. at brussels airport we are asked (some of us are even required) to get in and out of an interior car twice when the door obstacles should simply be avoided and the passenger should not be dizzy by being taken up and down.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs jensen in particular and thank her for her dedication and tenacity in relation to these intelligent transport systems, particularly the road-related one, to achieve their harmonization and, above all, their backward compatibility, which i find to be fundamental. i have recently read how an operator such as the sncb in brussels was planning to provide motorists with real-time traffic information to help them make decisions on intermodality in good time. i understand that this is one of the aspects of future services to which mrs jensen refers and that, with their harmonization, it will be possible for them to be extended in a spectacular way to the whole of europe. i think that this dialogue between modes is fundamental and also the intelligent cross-border dialogue between road systems, which can also boost other aspects of road safety. i am particularly grateful for the applications for road safety and, above all, for the extension of the ecall system to the whole of europe. i would also have liked - and i hope that in the future it will be possible - to extend it beyond the infrastructures of the transeuropean networks and, above all, to vehicles for rural use, because we often find - especially in regions like mine - that there is an accident and the person dies because it has not been possible to arrive on time or because his emergency call has not arrived. i hope that it can be extended. i think that safe parking areas for lorries and commercial vehicles are very useful, which i certainly support, and i believe that in the future they should be increasingly extended to the transeuropean road networks. and now all we need is for galileo to be the platform for this kind of service, and that would be "much more than enough". i hope that mr kallas and mr tajani will succeed in doing so, so that these intelligent transport systems will also be the future of galileo.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dirk sterckx, for his efforts on the directive on reporting formalities for ships arriving in, or departing from, ports. this is a very important step: it is not merely a matter of formality. this directive simplifies administrative formalities for shipping services and will reduce costs for the economy and end consumers. moreover, it will make short-sea shipping more attractive. the directive is part of the action plan to establish a european maritime transport space without barriers, with the concept of extending the internal market to intra-eu maritime transport by simplifying administrative routines. indeed, maritime transport is subject to complex administrative procedures even when vessels ply only between eu ports and the cargo consists only of internal market goods. the consequence is that the intra-eu maritime transport of goods is faced with unnecessary extra administrative costs. an important issue raised during the discussion was a deadline for european ports to accept electronic transmission of port formalities. the compromise suggests 15 june 2015. we accept that the requirements for introducing a single window are stricter in the current text than in the council general approach. the commission is also ready to look into the need for a clear framework for the granting of pilotage exemption certificates in european sea ports. the commission will communicate its findings to the other institutions and will propose further action based on these findings. the commission also accepts the report on several other issues: possible extension of the directive to inland waterways; facilitation of intra-eu maritime transport in relation to ports outside the eu; collection of statistics; and updates of the technical provisions in the directive. to conclude, the commission supports the compromise reached by the rapporteur, mr sterckx, and the council presidency. this is a good and well-balanced compromise based on the general principles from the commission’s proposal.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr kallas, this is a directive which concerns customs formalities for ships entering and leaving ports and which will favour short sea shipping and contribute to the modal balance. the aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to reduce and simplify the number of information and documentary and physical checks carried out by ships in relation to goods. at present, this information must be provided and checks carried out repeatedly. the rapporteur, mr sterckx, whom i congratulate on his work, has been intelligent and open-minded. in particular, as an alternative rapporteur, i feel represented in the final work and satisfied that my contributions have been incorporated. it has been a bottom-up process over time, in which agreements have been gradually concluded, from the one approved by the committee on transport to the trilogue held on 7 june. the final result is the consensus between parliament, the council and the commission. the agreements have included very important aspects, to which the rapporteur and mr kallas, as commissioner, have already referred. in my view, the compromise solutions reached on the language used, the time of entry into force or the single window are balanced and worthy of support. i think he's done a good job. i congratulate mr sterckx and i think that the objectives set for us by the commission have been largely achieved and that we should congratulate ourselves on reaching this agreement between the three parties, between the three institutions.
mr president, commissioner, before i go into the substance of the report, i should like to thank mr grosch for including and accepting most of the amendments tabled by the socialist group. in my view, this has helped to define and orientate the main lines of future european transport policy. i would like to highlight four main groups within the amendments accepted and included. the first concerns objectives. the inclusion of safety and territorial cohesion as priority objectives will undoubtedly improve the design of future transport policy and help to ensure that its practical implementation is in line with the expectations, needs and possibilities of citizens. alongside security, territorial cohesion has been incorporated as a priority objective of the declaration. in this context, it is proposed to make special efforts to improve cross-border conditions, reduce 'bottlenecks' and address interoperability deficiencies, as well as to improve connections in the outermost regions, all based on the actual situation in each country and in each mode of transport. the second group of amendments of particular importance is the promotion of two modes of transport: rail and maritime and inland waterway transport. and there is a third group of amendments on which i would like to stress the importance of the financial aspect. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. finally, i would like to refer to two amendments which i consider important, concerning the need to strengthen the social aspect of transport. i am referring to the working conditions of workers and the rights of passengers. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur and the other groups once again for their cooperation and their high level of commitment to european transport.
mr president, i think this excellent report sets out the broad lines which should inspire the new white paper on transport which will shape european transport policy for the next ten years. the report contains several milestones which are worth mentioning: the need for a financial fund as an indispensable instrument; the challenge of the growing demand for freight transport; the search for comfortable solutions that provide safety for users and for goods; the urgent need for sufficient and safe resting areas in road transport; the diagnosis - in my opinion, certainly - that there should not be mere competition between the different modes, but that they should complement each other by looking for efficiency criteria; the rapporteur's statement - courageous, in my opinion, and right - that rail or maritime transport is not always more environmentally friendly than road transport. in short, the concept of 'efficient comfort' is a concept for the future and should, in my view, be supported with all rigor.
mr president, i join in congratulating mr grosch, especially for his sensitivity to the crossborder aspects of the transeuropean networks, and i would also like to thank my colleague, magdalena álvarez, for having produced such an appropriate and balanced report. let me just make two small points which are not in the report but which could be in the commission's white paper tomorrow. firstly, to express my disappointment that the 40% reduction in fatalities is maintained. i know that the issue of serious injuries is added, but i think it is necessary to explain very well why we are losing ambition and are no longer proposing not 50% but even more, since our aim is to reduce road fatalities by 100%. and as regards the financing of the networks, i would simply like to add that, in addition to the proposals - which i think are very interesting - in mr grosch's report, we should be as ambitious as possible at this time when the debate on the next financial perspective is being opened. why not set ourselves - and i am speaking specifically to you, mr kallas - the objective of 10% of the next multiannual budget for the transeuropean networks for the period 2014-2020? why not dream and not give up in advance? let us go further, because we may achieve what we did not achieve in the previous financial perspectives.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests is a very important one. the committee on petitions' activity this year was marked by the change from the sixth to the seventh parliament, as you know, which meant a major change in the composition of the committee, since two thirds of its members are joining it for the first time. the report aims to provide a clear overview of the committee on petitions' activities during the year and, ultimately, a more precise explanation of what it means to petition the european parliament, as well as the possible outcome of the process, its achievements and limitations. in addition, this report examines the progress made in implementing previous recommendations aimed at improving the work of the committee and highlights the main future challenges in the light of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, not only confirmed the right to petition the european parliament as one of the pillars of european citizenship, but also laid the necessary foundations for increasing citizens' participation in the decision-making process of the european union by offering citizens the opportunity to suggest improvements or additions to union legislation. in this respect, the committee on petitions is pleased to be able to cooperate, in accordance with rule 50 of parliament's rules of procedure, with the committee on constitutional affairs in the drafting of the report on the european citizens' initiative, which should be completed by the end of this year. furthermore, and in the same context as the treaty of lisbon, the committee on petitions of the european parliament should establish closer working relations with the counterparts of the regional and national parliaments of the member states, in order to promote mutual understanding of petitions on european issues and to ensure a prompt response to citizens at the most appropriate level. i would also like to draw the attention of honourable members to the legally binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights which it has acquired with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and to underline the importance of the charter in enhancing the understanding and awareness of fundamental rights by all citizens. i am confident that all the necessary procedural measures will be taken to ensure that the institutional aspects of the european union's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms are rapidly identified. this is of the utmost importance, given the problem which the committee on petitions is facing on a daily basis with regard to the infringement of property rights in certain member states, since neither the commission nor parliament are in a position to take any legal action. i would also like to emphasize the excellent relations which this european parliament has with the european ombudsman. we particularly appreciate the efforts of the ombudsman's office to increase public awareness of its work and to identify and resolve cases of maladministration by the european institutions. in this respect, we support the ombudsman's idea of establishing an administrative code of conduct for the administration of the european union. we call for the development of an internet system that clearly indicates the different complaint mechanisms available to citizens and which means are most appropriate to their interests. this would require the creation of a single online information window. but not all of it was going to be positive. i would like to take this opportunity to protest against the constant practice, since 2007, of the dg for the presidency and the dg for communication, of registering as petitions what, in accordance with rule 201 (1) of parliament's rules of procedure, is not. i'm talking about the "not requests" calls. their treatment is an unnecessary waste of time, apart from the cost of dedicated staff. to make you aware of the importance of this point, i will give you just one fact: these 'no requests' calls account for 25% of all registered requests. this practice of maladministration is detrimental to the rights of citizens of the european union. last but not least, i would like to stress the need to adopt a code of conduct for the internal handling of petitions. i therefore encourage the secretariat and the representatives of the political groups to work on the preparation of a revised guide for members on the rules and internal procedures of the committee on petitions. in conclusion, my last words are 'as it cannot be otherwise, mr president' to thank the committee secretariat for the facilities and support it has given us in the preparation of this report.
i would like to add my congratulations and thanks to mr iturgaiz on behalf of my group. i think we are looking at a detailed report on the intensive work that the commission did in 2009. this intense work is matched by petitions, which are becoming an increasingly effective tool for citizens. so all the requests have actually increased compared to 2008. i think this shows that this parliament is indeed, in the eyes of many citizens, a very useful tool for bringing all kinds of requests to the house: environmental problems, fundamental rights, justice, the internal market... more and more requests: germany, spain, italy, romania in the lead i hope it does not correspond to the result of the match last morning and that germany is not ahead of spain. but it is true that we are dealing with a tool which is really useful to many citizens. i believe that the report has the merit not only of describing but also of pointing out to the european commission aspects which need to be corrected for the sake of the effectiveness of the petition procedure. firstly, the simplification of the request which is incumbent on all of us - including this parliament. but then, in all matters relating to the european union's own competences, such as ecosystem management, environmental matters, etc., we would have to speed up the european commission's responses much more in this procedure, including with letters of formal notice to the member states, because the commission knows that, many times, when the letter arrives or even when the court of justice of the european union intervenes, it is already too late. the damage is irreversible. the environmental damage is irreversible. that is why i think it is very important that we should be able to find a much faster mechanism at this particular point: much faster from the moment the petition arrives, from the moment the commission gives its ruling to the petitioner, stating that damage has been caused or that there is a breach of european environmental protection directives, so that when the procedure reaches the courts, it is much faster to ensure that the damage is not irreversible. it has been a year for my country, for spain, which has had a very important impact. spain has been one of the countries with the most problems with uncontrolled urban planning and that is why mrs auken's report was very important at the time. let us take the port of granada as an example. our recent visit to huelva, in connection with all that pollution of the estuary meant, shows that it is indeed a very useful instrument. and if we are able to speed up, simplify and make much more concrete the commission's action when there are environmental breaches, i think the citizens will appreciate it.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, if i try to focus on the most important elements in the debate, i think i can group them into three important parts: the first is better communication and a better information spread; the second is cooperation between the european parliament and the commission in the field of petitions; and the third concerns all issues related to the infringement procedures. regarding better communication, i agree with honourable members that it is very clear that we should try to spread information better and try to find a way to explain to the citizens what the european citizens’ initiative is, how it differs from petitions, what the relevant rights are and which rights relate to the ombudsman. there is not enough information on the eu, and i think here we have to work together as regards how to improve the information spread among our citizens. we have tried to improve the communication tools the commission has at its disposal through the improved website. as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, the new europa website is aimed precisely at overcoming that problem. we have already informed the committee on the internal market and consumer protection about the work done on the website, and that committee will be very happy to pass that information on to the committee on petitions. we would welcome comments from the peti committee – or from any other committees in the european parliament – on how they think we can improve the website and how we can better direct information to our citizens. with the approval of the european citizens’ initiative, our citizens will get a new tool with a view to setting the agenda for all of us who work on european legislation. i would like warmly thank the peti committee in particular, because its experience and advice was very important when we were drafting the draft regulation on the eci. i am sure that we will be cooperating very closely in the coming days and months – when this issue is being discussed and debated in the european parliament, and once the eci is in place – as regards how we can work even better with this instrument and with the citizens who will be using it. the commission is open to working in very close cooperation with parliament, because we realise how important petitions are for our citizens and we understand that the best answer is one which is correct, quick and not subject to delays. if this is the case, citizens will get frustrated. but sometimes it is not easy to provide quick answers because very thorough analysis and very thorough legal study has to be done. there has to be a lot of background research so things sometimes take a while, but i am sure that we will be working with parliament in looking for ways in which we can improve and speed up the process in this area. the last point concerns infringements. i would like to assure honourable members that we take this issue extremely seriously, as you can see from the list of infringement procedures that have been opened. it is a regular process within the commission. the commission’s primary goal is to encourage all member states to uphold european law and all directives. we are trying to use all the means at our disposal to do this, including exchanges of views and encouraging member states to correct improper transposition of european law. if this does not work, we take the matter to the european court of justice with a plea to correct the inappropriate transposition of european law. in the past there have been requests from the european parliament for more information on infringement procedures. i am very glad that we have now found an understanding as to how this will be done in the future, once the framework agreement between parliament and the commission enters into force. i am sure that, with the additional information you will have at your disposal, you can also exercise your rights and use your influence in the member states to ensure that european law is respected. i took note of the other detailed questions and comments raised and i will pass them on them to the relevant departments.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their words and speeches. i believe that there is a common thread in all the interventions that my colleagues have made. and that common thread is the importance of the committee on petitions, because thousands of citizens place their trust and their hopes, on many occasions, in this committee to solve their main problems, their real problems. that is why the committee on petitions - as several colleagues have pointed out - is the committee with the most direct relationship with the citizen of all, since the citizens also intervene in it. and we must safeguard this committee for its significance and improve the remaining issues, so that both parliament and the commission, and also the petitioners, feel that we are even more useful in this committee. i would like to ask the commissioner to take this very seriously. i know that the commissioner will do so, because many of the complaints from my colleagues that we have heard here today are full of reason. they are quite right in their comments: the lack of information, the fact that certain requests have been paralysed and have not been followed up. i think, therefore, that we cannot look the other way, but must get to the bottom of the matter. we must solve those petitions that have been started, that are still open and whose problems have not yet been solved. and i think that as commissioner you must make that effort to try to find a solution to the complaints you have heard here today, in this house.
mr president, from this forum of freedom i salute the memory of saramago, whom i met because of his great interest in two writers from oviedo, my city: leopoldo alas and ángel gonzález. oviedo, which, if there is any sense, will be european capital of culture 2016. a committed saramago. his opposition to the iraq war is unforgettable, as is his commitment to the small and big causes, such as aminatu haidar and all saharawis. communist, he had no qualms about criticizing the misdeeds of the cuban regime, but, above all, saramago is a great writer. its portuguese, iberian, european and universal footprint does not die. the josé saramago foundation is here! forward pillar of the river!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to express my solidarity with the victims of the recent floods in europe. i would like to draw attention to the situation in the north of spain, particularly in the regions of cantabria, asturias, galicia and the basque country, which have suffered the effects of the storm of torrential rains and are working to get everything back to normal as soon as possible. i would like to congratulate in a very special way all the civil protection forces and the municipalities concerned, who have worked very hard to ensure the safety of citizens and to reduce the damage in the affected areas. it is time to finish assessing the damage and to claim aid for the affected areas. the new european union solidarity fund could be one of the tools to respond effectively to such situations. and we need to implement the flood directive effectively so that we can be even better prepared to deal with such situations.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr barroso, mr rodríguez zapatero, look at you, mr rodríguez zapatero, whoever is in office, if he does not change the basic economic orientation of the union, he is called upon to dismantle the european social model. this is the harsh reality. that is why there are general strikes in greece, italy, france, portugal and the next one, on 29 september, in spain. general strikes are the response of workers, pensioners, to this economic policy agreed by you and a large majority of the house. there is a great deal of agreement. so you see the differences in the national debates and when you come here, everyone agrees. because everyone here agrees on the basic orientation of an economic policy which punishes workers and pensioners, who are not responsible for the crisis. they are not responsible and yet they will pay for the crisis. the basic question, therefore, mr president, is whether there is enough strength to change this economic orientation, which is endangering the social model and social and territorial cohesion. in the late 1980s, the washington consensus moved to brussels. the economy was not to be intervened in, all strategic services that were in public hands had to be privatised and, therefore, progress towards deregulating the market. this recipe for not intervening in the economy is bringing the european union to an unprecedented crisis and is putting the european social model at risk. it is therefore impossible for a sitting president to save the situation if the model which makes the brussels consensus a copy of the failed washington consensus is not changed. it's the photocopy, mr president. and you did indeed start with the crushing failure of the lisbon strategy. it was not their responsibility, and yet, despite this resounding failure - the aim was to achieve 3% growth, 20 million jobs and 3% of gdp for research and development - another strategy is being put forward on the same basis of no intervention in the economy, no public instruments, no european public treasury, no european fiscal policy, no active employment policies, no industrial employment policies. we have not a single instrument and the policy is still a failure. and of course, the response of the european labour movement cannot be otherwise. that movement that has taken such pains to guarantee that social model and that the answer is general strikes. general strikes. that is why, mr president, we do not share the outcome of this presidency. and i say to you, as i said at the beginning, that whoever is the next president, if economic policy is not changed, is called upon to be the instrument that dismantles the social model. finally, in the field of foreign policy, we do not share the european doctrine applied in the neighbourhood policy in relation to those countries which do not comply with clause 2 of the association agreements. the war crime committed by israel against the humanitarian flotilla should have been met with an immediate freeze... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr rodriguez zapatero, it was your fault for not approaching the matter. you thought you were going to really preside over europe and influence the gears that make the complex european machine work. you even came to believe, because you let people close to you proclaim it, that the world would live under your presidency a stellar moment. none of this has come to pass. we're going to make some adjustments. in the course of these six months of the spanish presidency, i would like to draw a distinction between the political direction of the presidency and the work of the officials who have been working in the engine rooms. it is the first to fail, and that is because of the lack of adequate impetus from the government presidency, which has woven the european presidency rather like a pendulum. however, i would like to highlight the efforts of the officials, their valuable willingness to serve europe and spain. the fact is, mr president, that spain has excellent professional civil servants, and if there is anything to be regretted it is that they are too often left out of the daily reality. that said, it is worth acknowledging that some worthwhile initiatives have been taken in the last six months. among these, i am pleased to mention the organ donation and transplantation scheme and the treatment of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare. the agreements on the new europe 2020 strategy and, above all, those on the european external action service, both of which are still too fragile, have been left in the air. the european protection order for victims of gender-based violence is a sad example of this, and the same dismal result has been achieved with the community patent, which is essential for the life of thousands of companies and is blocked, in part, by the linguistic problems that spanish legislation encourages. but all the major political actions have ended in spectacular failure: from the mediterranean summit to the european union summit with the united states, he quotes the latter, in which his own government was responsible for creating excessive expectations. however, we must agree that not being able to carry out his policy towards cuba has been highly positive for the cubans. finally, the progress made towards better european economic governance cannot in any way be attributed to your presidency, which is conspicuously absent on the most important issues. so, farewell to the spanish presidency. i would like to draw a positive conclusion from this experience: my fantasy as a convinced europeanist is excited by the thought that it could mean the end of the rotating presidencies as they have been conceived so far. this would be good news, because unless europe strengthens its common institutions by solidly linking its fragments, it will continue to run the risk of sinking into the voids of irrelevance.
mr president, mr president of the spanish government, these first six months after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon required and deserved a change of political attitude. if the economic and financial crisis was a consequence of the departure from 'real' economics and the disorderly development of 'fiction' economics, the same is true in the political sphere. on 20 january, in this parliament, mr rodríguez zapatero announced the four priorities - not two - of his presidency: first, the common energy market; second, investment in the information society; third, the sustainable economy or industry with a plan for the development of the electric vehicle; fourth, the completion of the university area in bologna. and i wonder, how does that statement of objectives approximate to the reality we have lived? in his first speech, in presenting the objectives, he did not mention the terms deficit and debt once. the whole presidency changed radically at the ecofin meeting on 9 and 10 may, and the euro crisis emerged. he keeps coming in late and wrong. the european union has to improvise some necessary measures because of the lack of foresight and depth in the diagnosis of the crisis. with an additional difficulty: the one who held the rotating presidency, because of the results of his economic policy, was not in a position to participate in the leadership of the solution because he had become part of the problem. the rotating presidencies, which are certainly different after the treaty, in a situation of such acute economic crisis, are either reaffirmed or, on the contrary, are even more limited and burdened by the lack of confidence and credibility of their economic policies in their respective countries, as in this case. mr president, the biggest crisis that politicians are experiencing is one of trust. a crisis of distrust of this magnitude can only be resolved by daring to speak the truth. the third fiction in this presidency is therefore described in this morning's speech, in which it seems that the president is only interested in magnifying this presidency. the question we must ask ourselves is whether we will be able to stop improvising or, on the contrary, whether we will be able to diagnose and foresee the very scenario of the crisis which will have a social dimension. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, in 25 years spain has held the presidency of the european union four times. and, as in the three previous ones, it has exercised it on this occasion with a commitment and with a profoundly european responsibility. but most of all, with results. and now, as never before, in such a difficult context, certainly the most difficult the european union has ever known in its entire history. and in this context of crisis, the results set out in president rodriguez zapatero's balance sheet are doubly remarkable, because the crisis is not only economic. it's also been political. it has affected the public's trust in the institutions and the european project. and in the successive elections, many citizens have turned away from the polls, wondering who is in charge in the face of the crisis: the financial markets, which are answerable to no one, or the governments, democratically accountable to the citizens? that is why this semester, which started with the delayed landing in lisbon, has in four months brought about progress in the economic and political governance of the european union, and that is encouraging. and now the europeanist impulse of this presidency is being transferred, in accordance with the tripartite dynamic established by the treaty of lisbon, to the successive presidencies: belgium and hungary. and none of them can ignore that none of the challenges of globalisation - demographic, energy, social and the fight against poverty - can be tackled by any country alone. we must row together, or else the european union will slip into irrelevance. so the lesson is clear. it has shown us our vulnerability: the vulnerability of the single currency in the face of poor fiscal, budgetary and economic coordination; the vulnerability of the response times in the face of the enormity and speed of the challenges. hence the motto of the european union: united in diversity. in no case, united in the face of adversity. that is why, from now on, every presidency must think globally, not locally. and every presidency, above legitimate national interests, must act 'in a european way', responding from europe and for europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr zapatero, the crisis has forced us to take economic governance measures on the financial supervision package - which failed yesterday at 1:30 in the morning - the creation of the rescue fund, the launch of the european external action service or the europe 2020 strategy and its radical commitment to innovation. but leading these projects requires, in addition to prestige, authority and recognition. in this context, you have been conditioned, limited by the bad data from spain and the constant rumors about its solvency and the deficit of its public accounts. in addition, improvisation and the rush to sell a photo have undermined the circulation of good ideas, such as the european protection order. the question is also whether rotating presidencies help to strengthen genuine european leadership. and, as far as the basque country is concerned, we have included the whole of the basque y in the list of rail corridors. there has been no progress in the recognition of basque as a minority language in europe, neither for the basque economic concert nor for integrating the ertzaintza, the basque police, into the schengen system. spain and france have led the anchovy plan, which has been so important for the sector, when it was agreed with them and by parliament. the lisbon treaty has not advanced, as you announced, in its regional aspects and in the annexes on subsidiarity and proportionality. and little respect, again, at the end, for this parliament. we were not invited to the beginning of the spanish presidency and he took stock of the situation earlier in the congress than here. we shall continue to demand the voice of the european regions. (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, mr president, that this presidency has failed us, mainly because, instead of betting on the europe of the people and the citizens, as we hoped, it has continued to bet on the europe of the states and the markets. we didn't expect results - that is to say, it's not your fault in particular, but the system's - but we did expect leadership. he has shown that, for example - and i congratulate him on that - by promoting the european protection order. but the same leadership would have wanted to see it in other ways too: for example, by promoting financial supervision at european level; for example, by committing to a tax reform at european level; for example, by really betting on a tax on financial transactions. on the ecological side, they are still betting on ignoring the importance of energy efficiency, they are still betting on subsidizing coal, they are still not facing the destruction of the coasts. swift to me is not good news; it's terrible news. and finally, as regards respect for the peoples, i have to say that in catalonia, as you know, we are deeply disappointed. the ruling last week has made many catalan europeanists, like myself, seriously reconsider our role in the europe we want to build and of which we feel we are a part, and we have missed it here.
mr president, mr zapatero, in january you said you were coming to relaunch the european union, but it was europe that forced you to change your policy of self-sufficiency in the face of the crisis. the intervention of the spanish economy in 2010 is reminiscent of that of 1959. as then, the spanish government's inertia had to be overcome and, as then, spain is recommended a profound reform of the labour market. your european presidency has been very poor. you've been left out of the big decisions. european financial supervision or the directive on hedge funds, which came last year, should have been adopted by now, but you have no leadership. speaking in football terms, felipe would have scored this ball. your presidency coincided with the spanish economic collapse, of which you were aware. i myself reminded him in january of the european commission's dire forecasts, which have been fulfilled by its inaction: rising unemployment, uncontrolled government deficits and falling bank credit to businesses. and that is why, today, the international financial markets remain closed to many spanish companies. mr rodríguez zapatero, i proposed that catalan be used in this house today and you have washed your hands of it. i see you share the 'final solution' for catalan. i conclude with a few verses by machado that his frivolity has inspired me: "castilla [...], yesterday dominating, wrapped in her rags, despises what she does not know".
mr president, mr rodríguez zapatero, despite your promises last january, spain has not led the way out of the crisis or the external projection of the european union. in particular, what has happened to the euro-mediterranean summit or the summit with the united states? when is recognition of kosovo due? where are the measures to ensure compliance with the europe 2020 strategy? what have been their contributions to the regulation of the financial market, the common energy market or the university space? in which documents has the priority of the mediterranean axis been established? six months have been more than enough for europe to see that its presidency and its government are a model of failure. many of us have endured this model for much longer. and you and your government are certainly an excellent teaching tool for why we want to become a state within the european union.
mr president, mr rodriguez zapatero, believe me, i would have liked to have made a different speech today. you set a semester full of ambition and set the bar so high that, when compared with what you actually achieved, disappointment is inevitable. the truth is that he has not been able to overcome a complex situation for which leadership and credibility were needed. you yourself have sometimes reminded us that the european union is a club with rules. and i agree with you. but it was your place to enforce those rules. the reality is that it was the spanish government which was being pressed to fulfil its obligations. in this context, positive achievements, which have not been lacking, have been obscured. you've had time to relate them. i'm not going. democracy is a regime of public opinion. and it is what it seems: obama's disdain, the cancellation of the mediterranean summit and the announced summit between the european union and the united states, are deep-seated failures. the rush to strike improvised deals at any price has not helped the image of the spanish management. a failure has been called the way to achieve some respectable goal. spain is a great nation and will remain so despite the mismanagement of this time. our diplomats and officials have kept the type and, thanks to that, the prestige of spain will endure. the truth is that in the assessment of the value of this presidency, the situation in spain will weigh more heavily than what has been done or not done here. he could hardly lead such a difficult enterprise who has placed his country in a stage of uncertainty and unrest. at best, this presidency has proved woefully irrelevant.
mr president, we congratulate mrs malmström and mr alvaro and we welcome the support for the agreement announced by the various groups which make up a large majority in this house. also, respect for those who disagree. transatlantic security wrapped in democratic guarantees is the key to short-circuiting the financing of terror. we reaffirm today our support for a new agreement which is more guaranteed and in which parliament has played a greater role. the council must understand and listen and work more and better with a different parliament which derives from the treaty of lisbon. the union needs its own tftp in such a way that data mining can take place on community territory and under the supervision of european officials. the commission therefore has a key role to play in promoting this. and we must not forget, finally, that the information provided by the united states, obtained through swift, has been decisive in preventing and suppressing attacks in barcelona, madrid, london and by the jihad in germany. i do believe in the usefulness of the accord.
mr president, i would ask you to postpone the vote for one minute because the people's party voting lists are being distributed at this moment. you can see for yourself.
we now move on to the voting.
the voting is closed.
so, the baltic sea strategy is a good one. the baltic sea region has a wide range of development opportunities and this strategy has already received some eu funding, but a small unit dedicated to the implementation of the baltic sea strategy is needed. it is also necessary to develop specific, coordinated programmes for cooperation with private enterprises, innovation and research development. the baltic sea strategy action plan provides for a unified patent policy, the establishment of a cooperation network of individual smes and baltic scientists, and a baltic sea research and innovation fund. further economic growth will also be directly dependent on a successful innovation policy in the baltic sea region. the implementation of rail baltic has been delayed for too long and must be completed as soon as possible. the report on the baltic sea strategy recognises the need to increase the competitiveness of the baltic region, but the development of innovation and infrastructure projects is a precondition for this, which is why i also supported this report.
the report on regional policy. the second objective of cohesion policy is to provide assistance to european regions facing unemployment, crime and a rapidly declining population. the financial perspective is €54.7 billion, but there are still wide economic disparities between the countries of the european union, with the poorest regions being the hardest hit by the economic crisis. helping them is considered a top priority of the european union's regional policy. ensuring fair competition and economic equality for the european union is the first step without which sustainable development is not possible. regional policy must continue to support those european regions whose gdp is below the eu average. the position that we should continue to develop the flexibility of funding is supported, but we should also strive for financial and practical support for smes that are engaged in innovation, [with] support for technologies and enterprises which i also fully support. thank you.
mr. hannan, please return to dazzling us with your knowledge of the greek classics.
thank you, mr president. in 2009, the european parliament's petitions committee received 1924 petitions from citizens, but only 46% were assessed as being within the scope of the committee. this shows that citizens do not have enough information on how to contact the european parliament online. i would also say that the website of the appeal committee in question needs to be improved, because most europeans have still not heard of solvit, the online problem-solving network. i would also like to emphasise that the possibilities of informing citizens who do not have access to the internet at the moment are also being exploited. i would like to emphasise that the committee on petitions is the most direct and rapid way for europeans to communicate with the european parliament as a whole, and i believe that the work of this committee needs to become much more responsible and active, which is why i also supported this report. thank you.
mr kelly, next time, do not forget to be included on the list before we start the explanations of vote, because you were not on the list; that is why i did not call you.
in writing. − the function of the paris convention on international exhibitions is to regulate the frequency, quality and procedures of international exhibitions falling within its remit. the main purpose of international exhibitions, as stated in the paris convention, is to facilitate the display of innovation and contribute to the education of the public. as it regulates aspects falling within european union customs legislation, a member state wishing to accede to that convention therefore requires eu authorisation. the european union itself cannot accede to the paris convention, as only sovereign states can be parties thereto. so far 24 member states, with the exception of latvia, luxembourg and ireland, have acceded to the paris convention and latvia has expressed its wish to accede to it. the purpose of the council decision is thus to enable the member states that have not yet acceded to the paris convention to do so, while respecting the exclusive competences of the european union granted by the lisbon treaty. the verts/ale group has followed the rapporteur’s proposal in consenting to the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to accede to the paris convention.
in writing. − we greens have not been convinced that we should support the leinen proposal to consent to the council position on this issue. the fact is that on 19 february 2010 the commission published a proposal for a council decision to conclude, on behalf of the european union, the protocol on integrated coastal zone management (the iczm protocol) to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean (the convention is more commonly known as ‘the barcelona convention’; it was originally signed on 16 february 1976 and subsequently amended on 10 june 1995). the european union is a contracting party to the barcelona convention, as are all eu mediterranean coastal member states. under article 4(3) of the convention, the contracting parties must promote the integrated management of coastal zones, taking into account the protection of areas of ecological and landscape interest and the rational use of natural resources. however, personally i find the proposal weak: bearing in mind that we need at least 40% of protected areas, i do not see a strong position in that respect.
in writing. − although the parliament has backed the busuttil proposal to consent to the council proposal regarding the agreement between the eu and iceland and norway on the application of certain provisions of council decision 2008/615/jha and council decision 2008/616/jha, we greens found too many unanswered questions on how it would be implemented, so we have not supported that approach, and we have voted against.
in writing. - i consider the establishment of frontex (european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders) to be unacceptable. the migration issue requires a strategy against poverty and in favour of employment and peace, as well as a fair trade strategy by the eu countries as a significant contribution to the stability of the regions bordering the european union. in my view, the way the eu is dealing with the phenomenon of migration is a real disgrace for europe. the main exponents of this policy which criminalizes migration and abolishes the fundamental rights of migrants are the unfortunate shame directive and the work of frontex. member states are reducing their aid to cooperation and preventing developing countries from meeting the millennium development goals. i am against the fortress europe which uses migrants as cheap, precarious and unrighteous labour, and against the current repressive community policy on immigration.
in writing. − the aim of the proposal for a council decision which is the subject of this consent procedure is the signature and conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an arrangement between the european community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein, of the other part, on the modalities of those states' participation in the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, called frontex. we greens did not see many problems there, so we voted in favour.
in writing. − the strategy for the baltic sea region is the first attempt to create a common development strategy for a macro-region. it is a functional area focusing on common development goals and problems, with certain common features and geographical determinants. as greens, we believe it is important that green/efa amendments were adopted at the committee stage, including stressing that the development of macro-regions is essentially of a complementary nature and should not aim to replace eu financing of individual, local and regional programmes as a funding priority, and giving a prominent role to the sea transport of goods.
in writing. − in the context of the global financial and economic crisis, eu regional policy makes a contribution to the economic recovery plan by speeding up implementation of programmes under the cohesion policy. the policy of ‘pre-financing’ for programmes under the 2007-2013 cohesion policy resulted in immediate liquidity of eur 6.25 billion for investment in 2009, within the framework of the financing packages agreed with the member states. at the committee stage, green/efa amendments were adopted on: support by the financing instruments earmarked for objective 2 for bodies working for a social, inclusive economy; adding the protection of the environment and the potential development of renewable energy as areas where added value of eu interventions can be demonstrated; and taking appropriate action (short- and long-term measures) for urban regions and centres that present particular and significant social problems (high unemployment, marginalisation, social exclusion, etc.) which have increased owing to the impact of the crisis.
in writing. − the cancian recommendation on ‘passengers’ rights for buses/coaches’ was adopted, including the paragraphs relating to aspects as important as liability rules with accidents (2), liability with loss/damage of luggage (3), liability in the event of death or personal injury (4), and more precise formulations for care of passengers in the event of delays or interruptions. now we go into conciliation.
in writing. − with the adoption of the ayala recommendation on the rights of passengers when travelling by sea and inland waterway, the agreement with the transport council was entirely adopted, so the regulation is finalised at second reading. however, i have to show my concern regarding the fact that one of the amendments included, amendment 82 jointly presented by the s&d, epp, alde and ecr groups, weakens notably the rights of persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. − the greens/efa have supported the jensen recommendation on ‘intelligent transport systems’. the agreement with the council was adopted and the directive has been finalised at second reading.
in writing. − the verts/ale group supported the sterckx report on formalities for ships at seaports. the agreement with the council was thus adopted and the directive has been finalised at first reading.
in writing. − the grosch own-initiative report on a sustainable future for transport was adopted by a large majority (559 in favour; 34 against; 82 abstentions). the verts/ale group voted in favour. unfortunately, our amendments 4 (on a 30% co2 reduction for the entire transport sector (169 in favour; 497 against)) and 5 (on sustainable eu infrastructure cofunding criteria (123 in favour; 540 against)) were rejected. also, the regi committee’s amendment 6 (on coordinating eu transport cofunding instead of creating a transport fund) was rejected by a narrow majority (311 in favour; 364 against).
in writing. − the iturgaiz report on the deliberations of the committee on petitions during the year 2009 has been adopted with a broad majority, without roll-call votes. i am a bit upset, however, because we, greens/efa, lost four amendments out of five: on the committee on petitions’ right to examine judgments by national courts when these violate eu law; on the commission's responsibilities vis-à-vis infringement proceedings; on raising concrete examples of petition cases in the annual report; and on the internal procedures and working methods of the committee on petitions. the only amendment of ours adopted was a recital on the prohibitive cost of court procedures in some member states. thus the outcome could have been better.
in writing. − the text promoted by our colleague turunen was adopted as voted in the committee on employment. we maintained all good text, especially on financial independence and on access to free education (ppe separate votes). the report was adopted with a large majority in favour. this is a good green own-intiative report, with some excellent text that can be used on the ground when working with young people and youth ngos. key points are a european youth guarantee, a quality charter for internships, an eu youth taskforce and a call on eu institutions to stop promoting unpaid traineeships and internships.
in writing. − the report as adopted in committee has been adopted in plenary. the text is not damaging but relatively weak. we in the verts/ale group tabled an alternative resolution for visibility reasons and to state our point in plenary, there was unfortunately no chance to secure a majority for it. as expected, it was rejected, but it was supported by the s&d group and part of the gue/ngl group. on the negative side we find: there is no reference to a legal framework for equal rights; there is no reference to the definition of worker (important for circumvention); there is too much flexibility and admin-burden ppe wordings; and there is too much about flexicurity, with the text as a whole being overly in favour of flexicurity. on the positive side, the text guarantees core labour rights regardless of employment status, extends protection of atypical workers, stipulates that transition between employment needs to be safe, expresses concern about ecj cases and emphasises the need to strengthen the social partners.
in writing. − the draft report already contained the most relevant issues for us greens. we concentrated on highlighting the problems of recovery of bio-waste in the form of waste incineration with energy recovery, stating that the recycling of bio-waste is far preferable to incineration as not only does it avoid the formation of methane gas but it also contributes to combating climate change via carbon sequestration and the improvement of soil quality. this was included in the recitals of the text adopted in committee.
rapporteur. − mr president, at the origin of this financial crisis are the national supervisors. our financial markets are integrated at a european level and in every country the main financial institutions are cross-border institutions, but financial supervision has remained only at national level. at this stage and with the huge crisis we are suffering, there are only two possibilities. we can reinforce the national supervisors or we can create european supervisors in order to adapt european financial supervision to the globalisation process. in this report i propose a closer link between the european central bank and the european systemic risk board. the president of the ecb will also be the chair of the esrb and represent the esrb externally. in my opinion, the european central bank has gained credibility and has become an institution of worldwide renown in this financial crisis. it has been recognised all over the world, including by some anglo-saxon experts, such as david marsh, the chairman of the london and oxford group. in my opinion, the european central bank is the only european independent institution that will have the moral and material authority to play an important role in future european supervision of both financial markets and financial institutions. to justify why a closer link between the ecb and the esrb is needed, we can see what is happening in other countries outside the eurozone. three weeks ago it was my pleasure to read in the financial times that mr george osborne, the uk conservative finance minister, has decided the biggest overhaul of city regulation since 1997. the uk splits the main financial regulator and gives more power and more clout to the bank of england. in the same direction that we are now proposing, the uk has abolished the english tripartite structure, formed by the bank of england, the financial services authority and the treasury. mr osborne said that it had failed to prevent the crisis because no one knew who was in charge. mr osborne will hand the bank of england full control for monitoring systemic risk in the economy as well as oversight of individual banks. finally, i completely agree with mr osborne when he argues that nowadays only independent central banks have the broad macroeconomic understanding, the authority and the knowledge required to make the kind of macro-prudential judgements that are required. this report was voted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs with a large cross-party majority, so i believe that, with these arguments, the uk conservatives will also vote in favour of my proposal at european level. to close my speech, this is not time for a debate on a second order reform. i know that state nationalism is now rising in the eu and i know that there is no consensus for such sweeping reform but this is our choice – jumping to a political and economic union or reverting to our insolvent nations. let me conclude by saying that, in my opinion, only a closer and stronger union can save the eurozone. (applause)
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial supervision of the european union is a very important one. its work, which formally began in september 2009 with the presentation by the commission of the legislative proposals following the de larosière group report, has deeper roots in this house. i would like to mention in particular the work of all the members of the european parliament who have been advocating for years the need for european financial supervision, and in particular those representing my group. when the council adopted its position under the swedish presidency in december last year, the main parliamentary groups received it as insufficient to address the shortcomings identified. the rapporteur was then able to reach a broad agreement in the economic affairs committee of the european parliament, which was materialized in the vote of 10 may. the next day the trilogues began. since then, a marathon of meetings has taken place: 18 under the spanish presidency and two under the current belgian presidency. very significant progress has been made in key areas where there are already important bases for the agreement: definition of objectives; consumer protection; the role of the authorities in the regulatory process; control of legality; the establishment of binding mediation; temporary product bans; the introduction of the concept of systemic risk and the strengthening of supervision related to it; the extension of the concept of 'stakeholder'; the non-abusive use of the safeguard clause; the voting system of the authorities, etc. in bringing this point to this house we envisaged completing the negotiating process by that date. we wanted to send a positive signal to our citizens and to the financial markets, to affirm our commitment that the authorities should be operational by 1 january and to support the conclusions of the european council in june in favour of a swift conclusion of the negotiations. we have been open to compromise until the last moment, but the technical, legal and political complexity of the file has not allowed a final text to be reached. the new presidency of the council has also expressly asked for time to align its positions with the prospect of an agreement at first reading. we need to continue our efforts as co-legislators, because this agreement is still possible. the rapporteur has therefore decided to vote on the text which reflects our commitment, endorsing parliament's ambitious mandate, but not to put the legislative resolution to the vote. we have therefore left room for compromise at first reading in the coming weeks. the omnibus directive, for which i am the rapporteur, introduces the new supervisory architecture into eleven directives of community sectoral legislation relating to banking and securities markets. this is not, therefore, an ordinary general review. there is a broad parliamentary consensus to do so by preserving the acquis communautaire, adapting comitology procedures to the lisbon treaty and updating the lamfalussy architecture in the area of financial services. financial supervision should be based on the existence of a set of rules, a single rule book at european level, and to achieve this, a key role for authorities in the development of technical rules, whether regulatory, by means of delegated or implementing acts, has been recognised in all sectoral legislation, in accordance with the lisbon treaty. and the commission has been given the necessary powers to ensure that it is adopted within the time limits. all competences and powers have been incorporated into sectoral legislation. i hope that the negotiations on this directive can be concluded satisfactorily.
the rapporteur. - madam president, cassandra had a gift: that of divining the future. she also carried a curse: that of not being heard. that's why troy fell. more than ten years ago, this parliament anticipated that a liberalization of the markets without at the same time setting up european supervisory mechanisms would end up with a crisis of the system. for a very simple reason: crossborder institutions cannot be supervised by national authorities whose jurisdiction extends beyond borders. they can only be supervised by european authorities. they ignored us and the crisis broke out. exotic products, unknown even to their creators, flooded the markets. nobody trusted anybody, nobody lent anybody, and credit dried up. the result: 23 million unemployed and 3.5 billion euro - a third of our production - committed to support the financial sector. so, what now? the council and parliament have been at odds until a few days ago. parliament has given up a lot to get an agreement, and so has the commission. the belgian presidency has shown good will. he asked for time. we're going to give it to him. but we are going to show today that parliament is united, that it has very clear ideas. that is why we are going to vote massively tomorrow on amendments which have been tabled jointly by the main groups in the house. the ideas which this parliament wishes to underline are several. the first is that the crisis will only be overcome when confidence is restored and transparency is restored in markets, institutions and products. and that will only be possible if there are credible, strong, independent and democratically controlled european supervisory authorities, authorities which do not simply docilely repeat the slogans emanating from their national governments. and what do you mean they're european? it means that they must have real power to prohibit the marketing of toxic products; it means that they must have real power to put an end to the regulatory distortions which hinder the functioning of the market; it means that they must have real power to oblige national supervisors to always act in the european interest. the national supervisors cannot be feudal lords invested with absolute power. the european authority must ensure that the law is enforced, that national authorities do what needs to be done when there is a threat of a pandemic and that they are able to resolve conflicts when the colleges of supervisors are unwilling or unable to do so. they must be able to force private institutions that are out of the game to do what needs to be done when national supervisors have ignored european guidelines. the second lesson is that within border institutions, there is a special, unique species: the so-called systemic institutions. one of the basic truths of capitalism is that when you do it right, you make money, and when you do it wrong, you lose money. that applies to everyone but the systemic institutions. when things go well, they make a fortune, and when things go bad, it has to be the taxpayer who runs to their rescue. there are only two solutions to the problem of systemic institutions, only two: either the supervisors in the countries where they operate are given more powers to control their solvency and liquidity, and that means abolishing the european parliament, or we have truly european institutions, which is what this parliament proposes. that means that the european authorities must keep a close eye on these institutions, because their ruin is the ruin of us all. it means that the european institution must be equipped with resolution and control mechanisms to stabilise the institutions in danger, if that is possible, or to liquidate them, if that is not possible. lifeboats are prepared before the crossing, never in the middle of a storm. and thirdly, we must force these systemic institutions to pre-finance, to provide funds to guarantee the interests of depositors, which is our main interest, and to pay the costs of the crisis when that happens. what cannot be is that the taxpayer has to pay for the broken dishes again. what can't be, given how much americans are quoted, is that main street is going to pay wall street's excesses again. ladies and gentlemen of the council, absent today - you have been very active this morning, calling on the telephone, and it seems that the storm has passed and we are calm and you are no longer here - i am sending you the same message through the commissioner. the council has asked for time. parliament has given it to him. but no one gets confused. it's not a sign of weakness. it is a sign of the strength of this parliament. the strength of the one who believes in what he says and feels supported by the citizenship, who backs him up. the council and the commission, which are doing a magnificent job, must use this time to forge a consensus in parliament on the european direction, towards europe. they must not use this time to try to forge blocking minorities against this parliament. for once, i ask the council to listen to cassandra. casandra are the speakers today. casandra is also michel barnier. those of you who aren't cassandra know exactly who i'm talking about. listen to parliament, seek a deal, say here what you said in toronto. don't say one thing here and another there. as the old castilians say, if the council does so, god will reward it and if not, he will demand it. god and this chamber.
opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. - madam president, i believe that there are only two possible solutions to the financial crisis we have had: either we give more powers to the national supervisors or we create a european supervisor and give him powers. and i am glad, madam president, that at this moment the firm commitment, the political commitment of this parliament, and i believe with a great deal of agreement from all the political groups, is to european supervision. the committee on constitutional affairs will support and has supported all the institutional measures that go in that direction. at the moment, once that bet is made clear tomorrow, it seems to me, madam president, that the commission has a first-class role in the negotiations with the council. and in that negotiation, i think the key point will be whether those european supervisory authorities can go directly to the companies concerned at national level if the national supervisor does not intervene. so, commissioner, good luck in this task, which i believe is crucial for the future of supervision and capital, at the moment, for those who want more europe.
member of the commission. - madam president, my first words will be to apologise for the absence of olli rehn, who had to take a plane but who listened to most of your speeches. i'll report back to him on any developments that may concern him directly. i would first like to remind the president, mrs sharon bowles, and mrs ferreira, of the importance i attach to this whole system of prevention and provision. mrs bowles stressed the need for early intervention measures. i think they're good ideas. you will find them in the commission's communications in october, in the toolbox, as well as in the legislation i will be presenting in 2011. finally, madam president, i would like to say that i will be very attentive to the correct calibration of solvency ii, as indeed of everything else that has to do with the implementation of basel. many of you, ladies and gentlemen - mr ferber, earlier, mrs győri, mr balčytis, and now mr karas - have spoken about citizens. i think it's good to remember the shock, the telescoping, the human social consequences of this financial crisis, with its economic and social consequences, which are not over. we're doing this reform for the citizens. i think, as many of you do, that if a new crisis were to occur - we have just discussed the risks in this and that sector - without having learned the lessons of the financial crisis, for two years, without having created tools for prevention and foresight, the citizens would not forgive us. it's a reform for the citizens. it is a question of putting financial services, markets, back in the service of the real economy, employment and therefore citizens. it is one of my priorities, apart from what we are saying this afternoon, madam president, on other matters of interest to the public, to protect the public who consume certain financial products. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. mrs lulling raised a point which is of interest to my colleague olli rehn. it is clear that the president of the central bank, mrs lulling, must have a key role in the systemic risk committee. the exact mechanism of the president's appointments is something we are working on with my colleague olli rehn. mr. klinz, thank you for your support. you have reminded us of the importance of strict application of our rules. it's the very idea of a single rule book, which i'm very personally attached to. i would like to say again to mr lamberts and mr giegold, who is here, that the question of the european authorities banning certain products or certain transactions is an idea that interests me. i am open to the idea that the supervisory authorities in the new european network should be proactive in the monitoring of products, especially the most harmful products, which can pose a risk to financial stability, consumer protection, which i have just mentioned. this must begin, mr giegold, long before the ban becomes mandatory. i could imagine an important role for the coordination of the authorities in this area. the council also accepted that the authorities could play this role. i think it is possible to agree on a text which ensures a wide scope of application while providing for the possibility of action in the event of dangerous products or transactions. mrs hübner, mr méndez de vigo, mr balz and mr audy spoke of the cross-border role of these institutions. the econ committee's proposal to entrust the authorities with the control of crossborder institutions is an option which raises political and technical problems which i suggest you should not ignore. the important thing for me is that we have, by 1 january 2011, authorities with real binding powers to deal with the lack of coordination, weakness or failure of supervision in the past, to act in emergencies, to ensure compliance with community law and to control the rating agencies that many of you have mentioned this afternoon. and then, after three years of operation of these authorities, when their reputation in the markets has been established, we will conduct, in liaison with you, an evaluation to see if an evolution of these skills is necessary. mr bodu, president lehne and mrs regner have also given their support to the work we are doing together. i think we do need, as i have just said, a real european supervision, effective and coordinated. that is why it is very important that we use the few days we have ahead of us intelligently to succeed in convincing the council to seize the ball that is now in its court and to seize, i think, the opportunity that you have offered it to go deeper and to reach a real agreement. mr baldassarre mentioned a concern that president lehne also has about the powers of the authorities. i would remind mr baldassarre that the proposals i have made on behalf of the commission, which were also made before me, were prepared with our legal service, without prejudice to the powers of the commission. mr pittella, mr méndez de vigo, mrs de sarnez, mrs goulard, mr ferber and mrs lulling all stressed the ambition of the proposals put forward by the larosière group. i would remind you, as mrs goulard has said, that these are proposals which were made at the request of president barroso. we have tried, in the commission's proposal, to keep as close as possible to the ambition of the larosière report on european architecture and even to go a little further in some cases. i would like to reiterate my intention in the weeks and, i hope, the days ahead, in the consultation we will have with the council of finance ministers, to keep as close as possible to the credibility and ambition of these initial commission proposals, which are based on mr de larosière's proposal. a word on a subject which mr bokros and mr audy raised earlier about accounting standards. it is a question of that transatlantic calibration which i sometimes mention. i'm not worried about the mutual stimulation between americans and europeans. 80% of financial exchanges are currently taking place between the two sides. the rest of the world is here, between americans and europeans. i observe that president obama, the european leaders signed the agreements, made the decisions together at the g20. so we have the same road map. the last g20 was, in my view, more of a follow-up g20. it is important that we should show the same determination to implement what has already been decided and is far from being implemented. the americans have taken a different approach from ours, they have adopted a global package. now they'll have to open the drawers one by one to implement the decisions. we ourselves have a series of proposals, the ones that are currently being considered on the regulation of hedge funds and private equity, the one that has just been adopted with crd 3, the ones that will be, i hope, with supervision. as you know, brick by brick, week by week, we will put all the commission's expected proposals into effect at the g20. that is why i wanted, not to do the same as the americans, but to give you a comprehensive vision, so that journalists, businesses, markets, citizens and european and national parliamentarians can have a comprehensive and global vision, to put this whole agenda into a comprehensive and coherent document, which was adopted on 2 june last and which is now our road map. the americans have made some headway in some areas, but we are also going to take action on an extremely important point, namely the regulation of derivatives and short selling, starting next september. i think there's a real parallel between americans and europeans. we don't always have the same tools. we won't always have the same methods. our banking sectors are not alike. i would remind you that in europe banks finance between two thirds and three quarters of the economy. in the united states, the ratio is the opposite. we don't always have the same banking structures. we won't always have the same tools, but we have to achieve the same goals in parallel time. the only point, mr president, where we have a point of debate which can become a point of divergence is the point mr audy has noted, which is the extremely important one of accounting standards. we have a confident but not naive dialogue with the americans on this subject. i can conclude by thanking you for your speeches.
rapporteur. − mr president, i propose that we imagine for a moment what would have happened in europe with this huge crisis without the euro. in my case, i could argue that spain would probably have had a big corralito. the euro was created 11 years ago. creating a single currency was not an easy process and there were great speculative attacks on very important european currencies. however, i think that the benefits and advantages of the euro for the eurozone citizens are much higher than the costs associated with it. dear colleagues, now we are experiencing another european momentum; another european train – european financial supervision – has arrived at the train station and it is waiting for the european countries to jump on board. let me also say that we will not have another opportunity to rescue the financial sector if there is another financial crisis and we continue doing business as usual. i will not say ‘in the ecb we trust’, because i know that my colleague, sven giegold, does not like to mix economy and religion, but the further step towards a european financial authority increases the role of the european central bank in european financial supervision.
the european union has a special responsibility in the field of financial services, because it is the world leader in banking and insurance and the second in securities markets. our citizens are looking for a system of supervision that ensures the reliability and resilience of our financial services. and we cannot let them down. i think we should take our time and get a quick settlement. we could go further in three directions: first, to ensure the effectiveness of the authorities' decisions in emergency cases; second, to make clear our commitment to the priority of protection for savers by depositary institutions; third, to advance a european crisis resolution system. those who yesterday advocated self-regulation must now accept self-financing. citizens cannot be the ones paying the bills and the broken dishes in the next crisis. in the omnibus directive, there are three directions: the first is to adapt to lisbon; the second is to increase transparency by providing information on sanctions to the european securities and markets authority and ensuring that financial institutions provide the information necessary to ensure responsible investment; and the third is to ensure correlation tables in the transposition of the directives. i would like to thank the rapporteurs - my fellow countrymen, mr tremosa and mr garcía-margallo, my colleagues mr giegold and mr goulard, my colleagues mr peter skinner and mrs elisa ferreira - the alternate rapporteurs, those who tabled amendments, all those who contributed, the staff of the secretariat, the group managers and my assistants. they have done an excellent job, which has not yet borne fruit. i would like to say that i also acknowledge the work of the representatives of the presidency and the commission. but we do not have the vocation of cassandra in this parliament; we want to legislate and to have effective supervision.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council must take note: if in six months they have spent their lives telling us that there was a mandate closed by the swedish presidency, we now also have a mandate. and since we are talking about cassandra, the important thing is not to prophesy the past, which is what the spanish presidency did, but to prophesy the future, which is what the belgian presidency seems to want to do. we have a consensus as strong as the council's, with the added advantage that the winds are favourable to parliament's position and not favourable to the old and anachronistic position which the council has held until the arrival of the belgian presidency. we have the advantage of incorporating proposals which were rejected, proposals which were in the de larosière report, such as the resolution mechanisms to which mrs ferreira referred. it makes no sense to set up a supervisor who can forecast the weather but can do nothing in the event of a shipwreck. we have the advantage of having anticipated things that other institutions have said later. when we talked about systemic institutions, we were told that there was no such animal species. the european council in march recognised its existence. when we talked about the taxpayer not having to bear the cost of the crisis and that funds pre-financed by the sector had to be set up to meet its responsibilities, we were told that this was premature, utopian or simply stupid. then the europe 2020 strategy, which was adopted by the commission, ecofin, the european council and the council in toronto, said so, and i do not understand why they do not defend it now. (the president cut the speaker off)
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 7 july 2010, at 12.00 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the european financial stability facility, the european financial stability mechanism and future actions by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0095/2010 - b7-0318/2010).
member of the commission. - madam president, i am very touched that you have the patience to listen to me again, after four hours of being here, and i am glad to be here to answer questions and listen to you on very important subjects. once again, i thank arlene mccarthy, saeed el khadraoui and all the members of the econ committee for their commitments, their contributions, the important improvements, madam, mr rapporteur, that you have made to these texts. we still have a lot of work to do on this financial sector issue, on compensation in other financial sectors, on corporate governance, on crd 4, on derivatives, on short selling, for which i will be proposing regulations next september. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial markets are not affected by the current financial crisis. as regards the texts adopted today, which you will be voting on tomorrow, i think they are good texts which have received a lot of input during the negotiation process, positive amendments introduced by your committee, particularly with regard to the details on the calculation of remuneration, transparency of remuneration policies, restrictions on bonuses for establishments which have received state aid and clawback. as regards international competitiveness, i would like to point out that the financial stability board's principles on remuneration are general principles for countries with significant differences in economic development. there is a great diversity among these states and where the general principles of the financial stability board left too much room for manoeuvre in their implementation, it was necessary at european level to ensure a consistent implementation of the text of the directive by the member states. clear rules have been put in place which cannot be interpreted in any way. as i have said on many occasions, i do not think that a clear and coherent legislative framework would in any way compromise our international competitiveness. i even think that if europe is one of the very first continents to put in place this smart regulation and supervision, it will have a competitive advantage. as regards what you said about the functioning of the new european authorities, we still need to have them. it's not yet. that is the subject of the discussions we are having with the council at this very moment. these new authorities will have to have, in my view, real powers of coordination and ensure a consistent and coherent application of these common rules. in addition, provision should be made for the possibility of taking decisions directly addressed to the institutions in the event that european law is not applied correctly, including, mr canfin, the rules on remuneration. i can assure you that the commission will be very attentive to these various points in the coming days. i should now like to say a word about the application of these new rules. these should apply to all investment firm banks. the directive provides for a general principle of proportionality, which makes it possible to adapt the application of the principles to different credit institutions, taking into account their legal structure, size, complexity and the nature of their activities. we are convinced that crd 3, thanks to you, will significantly change the practices that have prevailed all too often until now, and which have contributed to excessive risk taking by banks and thus led to the economic crisis whose consequences we are suffering today. i thank mr karas for his support for the implementation, as agreed, in parallel with the united states, of the insolvency law. we will work on this issue as part of the crisis resolution programme, but it is a long-term project. mr christensen, you have stressed the need for transparency. this is a very important point on which the european parliament still has a lot to improve on the commission's original proposals, and i thank you for that. president bowles has touched on the central point of capitalisation, as mr balz did earlier. of course, capitalisation is important, but i think the right internal and external supervisory framework, which we have already discussed, is equally important. on crd 4, which is a subject of debate with the banks, let me tell you, mr balz, that i am very concerned about completing, and seriously, the impact studies and the macroeconomic studies that we need to ensure the proper calibration of these crd 3 and crd 4 measures. there is the internal calibration to basel measurements; there is the calibration between these basle measures and the other measures relating to prevention and foresight, external supervision, internal supervision, corporate governance, resolution funds, the toolbox for foresight and then, the last calibration, with regard to which i am very vigilant - i repeat it for the last time, in conclusion - which is the confident, but not naive, calibration between what the united states is doing and what it should do, on the one hand, and what we ourselves should do from a european point of view, on the other. we have the same goals to achieve. they were set by the g20. we must achieve them in parallel and i am very attentive to this parallelism.
member of the commission. − the first part of mrs gutiérrez-cortines’ question refers to whether the procedure for the selection of the jti’s senior executive managers guarantees independence from the influence of large companies. the answer is ‘yes’. the procedure for selecting the executive directors for joint technology initiatives follows the guidelines for the appointment of heads of community agencies and joint undertakings. the guidelines are applied to all eu bodies and hence ensure that jti selection processes are fully coherent with those of other eu bodies such as executive agencies and regulatory agencies. in this way, the process for all eu bodies including jtis is based on competence and merit and guarantees equal treatment to all candidates. in this respect, as was prescribed in the guidelines, commission senior staff members were a majority both in the pre-selection committees and during the proceedings of the consultative committee on appointments. these are the only two steps of the procedure where industry was given a role in one way or the other, apart from the indirect role of industry representatives when they cast their vote in the governing board at the moment of the appointment itself, which is among candidates shortlisted by the commission. it is to be noted that the running and operational costs of all jtis are partially covered by industry, up to 67% in the case of eniac and artemis, the two joint technology initiatives in the field of nanotechnologies and embedded computer systems. this implies that their involvement was necessary and in keeping with the nature of jtis as public-private partnerships. the second part of the question asks whether in those selection processes the eu commitment to supporting smes is taken into account. the answer is that, generally, staff selection criteria for the day-to-day operation of the jti must be based – as mentioned earlier regarding the guidelines for appointment – on competence and merit. in this respect, the promotion of smes is an important political objective of the commission but may not easily translate into selection criteria for the appointment of staff covered by the eu staff regulations such as jti staff. the executive director and his or her staff are covered by professional ethics principles in the eu staff regulations and thus they are not allowed to defend or represent any specific interest, be it smes or large companies. the eu staff regulations foresee disciplinary procedures for breaches of this obligation. having said that, the regulations establishing the joint technology initiatives cater for smes. they contain provisions encouraging and promoting sme participation and representation at governing board level.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we know that the itcs are common bodies and that they therefore have a selection procedure which must be respected. and we also know that the people elected should not come directly from the companies that are sitting on the board of directors. i'll give you a specific case. in the hydrogen itc with a budget of 470 million euros, you, in the european commission, have made a selection procedure which ended up with three people, and finally with one, who is an expert of the european commission who comes from the small and medium-sized enterprise and who, however, when i arrived at the board of the hydrogen itc i was replaced by a person who came from the large company, in particular toyota daimler. i think this case law completely contradicts the answer you have given me, which should be logic in relation to procedure. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to keep a close eye on the selection procedure.
member of the commission. − i agree with the approach that neighbourhood policy is about reform for reforms. the more our partners are committed to reforms, the more active the commission is in supporting that country and ensuring that reforms are adopted and implemented. if you look at the countries participating in the eastern partnership, you can see that this policy is actually working. we have the same set of instruments – the association agreement, the economic integration agreement and a method for dealing with mobility and visa-related issues. if you look at the participants in the eastern partnership, you can see a big difference in their attitude to reforms and in the commission’s attitude to those countries. i could cite moldova as a good example – the country with which we have actually started negotiations on an accession agreement, with which we have started the dialogue on visas, and with which, i hope, we will very soon also start negotiations on the economic integration agreement, otherwise known as deep and comprehensive free trade agreements.
member of the commission. − fair trade-type schemes – or ‘private sustainability assurance schemes’, to give them their proper, though rather cumbersome, label – have an important role to play in promoting development and informing customer choice. one of their biggest assets is that they are non-governmental in nature. as expressed in the commission’s may 2009 communication on these schemes, governmental involvement should be limited so as not to interfere with the dynamic nature of fair trade and the manifestation of consumer preference. i would also recognise that there is considerable scope for consumer confusion. that is why the commission is supportive of the efforts of bodies such as the iseal alliance, the international trade centre and unctad to provide more clarity on the sustainability criteria used for different schemes. in the commission, responsibility for fair trade-type schemes is shared between different commissioners depending on the initiative in question. thus, for example, the services of commissioners tajani and barnier have taken the lead in the preparation of the guide to socially responsible procurement. those of commissioner dalli lead on informing eu consumers, and those of commissioner piebalgs lead when it comes to projects in developing countries. dg trade currently plays a central coordinating role to ensure that eu policy initiatives are coherent and consistent with the 2009 communication, and i am prepared to maintain that coordinating role in line with the commitment taken by my predecessors.
member of the commission. − this will happen at the inter-services level, and we will make sure that we coordinate frequently with the other commissioners involved so that as a result of this coordination an eu policy will evolve with respect to this on the basis of the 2009 communication. if needs be, i will also of course have direct talks with my colleagues, the commissioners.
member of the commission. − indeed, very briefly, because this is a subject which we could discuss at length. let me just say that the negotiations on a free trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru were indeed finalised recently, but the agreement has not yet been formally initialled. the text of the agreement is currently subject to legal review in order to ensure coherence and correspondence of the two negotiated texts in english and in spanish. this is likely to end in the autumn of this year, and, once the final texts are initialled by the negotiators, the commission will submit them to council for signature and conclusion of the fta. the fta will be formally submitted by the council to the european parliament for its consent after the adoption of the council decision for its signature. at this stage, it is difficult to predict the exact date for this, but it is likely to take place in the second half of 2011. it is not yet clear whether the national parliaments would also be called on to approve the agreements. the commission will examine whether member states’ ratification is necessary as soon as the final text of the fta is consolidated, taking into account the new distribution of competences between the eu and the member states resulting from the lisbon treaty. i can confirm that the agreement with colombia and peru includes a broad clause on human rights. as this clause constitutes an essential element of our relationship, it can therefore lead in case of breach to the unilateral suspension of trade preferences without prior consultation. such suspension would be made through a decision taken under qualified majority by the council on the basis of a proposal either by the commission or the high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy, pursuant to article 218(9) of the treaty on the functioning of the eu. the whole text of the agreement, including the clause on human rights, was transmitted to the inta committee in march of this year after the conclusion of the negotiations.
member of the commission. − first of all, on the alleged spying by the secret services, we are aware of the reports relating to this and we are taking this very seriously. the commission has raised this subject in its dialogue with the colombian government, inter alia during the visit of das director felipe muñoz to the commission in march 2010 and through the contacts between the eu delegation in bogotá with the das and other government departments. we are going to continue to monitor this very closely. with respect to the question by david martin, yes, we have made that assessment. in the end it is a political assessment. you know what the remedies are; they are the right ones. however, i agree with you that before talking about remedies you have to be sure that the stance itself, of coming to a free trade agreement, is going to foster human rights – or, rather, that it is not going to impede human rights. our assessment, and my personal political assessment, is that, given the overall situation in colombia, the concluding of the free trade agreement is beneficial for human rights.
the following is the recommendation for the second reading of the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods and amending regulation (ec) no 1331/2008 and repealing regulation (ec) no 258/97 and commission regulation (ec) no 1852/2001 (rapporteur: kartika tamara liotard) (11261/3/2009 - c7-0078/2010 - 2008/(0002cod)) (a7-0152/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, in march 2009, parliament voted on the novel foods proposal at first reading. many of the amendments that were carried have been incorporated into the council position that was adopted at first reading in march 2010. the council position maintains the principle of the need for pre-market authorisation for innovative products to reassure consumers that new production techniques are safe for humans and animals and respect both the interests of consumers and the environment. the proposed procedure would streamline and speed up the authorisation process through a centralised food safety evaluation undertaken by efsa, and would set precise deadlines at every stage of the process. it also includes an improved safety assessment to allow safe traditional food from third countries to enter the eu more easily. i am grateful for parliament’s broad support for the improvement of the proposal to streamline the authorisation procedure. turning to nanomaterials, i underline that the commission is considering the ep’s request for the systematic labelling of all food containing nanomaterials with a favourable disposition. however, before finalisation of the text, we need to come to an agreement on the adaptation to the new provisions of the lisbon treaty, especially those regarding the necessary adaptations of the definition of nanomaterials. i am confident that a balanced solution can be found so that the improved text can be finalised in a timely manner. regarding animal cloning, i share the importance that parliament attaches to this highly sensitive issue. as members will recall, i am committed to producing a report considering all aspects of cloning for food production by november 2010, which will be followed by legislative proposals if appropriate. i am committed to looking at all issues, especially those relating to the health and welfare of cloned animals during their productive life and natural lifespan. the impact that any measures on cloning would have on international trade is also a key aspect which will be addressed in this report. i will view the conclusions of this report with an open mind, with a view to identifying a satisfactory and proportionate solution that can be implemented effectively. the report will act as a launching point for subsequent discussions, with the aim of reaching an outcome satisfactory to all institutions. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs liotard, and the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable work on this important legislative file. i look forward to hearing the views of the members.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, this regulation is very important, as you have said, not only for consumers but also for the agri-food industry. it's about new food and new food manufacturing processes. as has been said here, the most controversial issue has been the meat from cloned animals and their offspring, because it is usually the offspring that enters the food chain, not the cloned animal. i think it was right of parliament to take the issue of meat from cloned animals out of this proposal, because it was really not possible to devote just a few paragraphs to a technique as novel and new as animal cloning, although it is already common practice in some countries. in this connection, there is an amendment which asks the commission, as you have promised, to submit a report and a legislative proposal. we have a little debate here, even within my own group, whether we tell the commission to come forward with a proposal to ban meat from cloned animals, or simply tell the commission to come forward with a proposal. i think that the commission should put forward the proposal and we do not have to tell it how to put it forward. the commission is putting forward the proposal and we will debate it in parliament and we will say whether we like it or not and we will amend it. that is my position, but in my group we are divided and tomorrow we will vote in two parts. there is another subject which interests me very much and which you have mentioned, namely the subject of nanomaterials. i agree that a new definition is needed, but we cannot confine ourselves to the definition and labelling. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food safety policy is properly implemented. i hope and trust that it will be.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to confirm my support for the following principles. first, the replacement of the decentralised authorisation procedure with a centralised procedure at eu level. the safety assessment would be carried out by efsa and the authorisation decision taken by the commission. second, the introduction of a procedure setting out essential criteria and guidelines for traditional food from third countries that would allow safe food to be subject to adjusted safety assessment and risk management procedures. third, in order to support innovation and to ensure food safety, in justified cases consideration could be given to granting data protection for newly developed food. fourth, the need for a science-based definition of nanomaterials which can be easily adapted to reflect the evolving state of science – a definition that should not be made by politicians but rather be science-based: made by scientists. fifth, clarification of the fact that all food products containing nanomaterials require case-by-case authorisation by eu citizens. sixth, the right of consumers to be able to make an informed choice through the systematic labelling of all food products containing nanomaterials. regarding cloning, i have heard parliament’s views and i will have an in-depth look at whether the novel food regulation is the right instrument to deal with animal cloning as this issue goes beyond the scope of this regulation. i can assure ms grossetête that the promised report on cloning will be developed with a clear head and it will deal with all aspects of food produced from cloned animals and their offspring. i look forward to a debate with the european parliament and council on this. the aim is that such a report will also suggest options for a balanced solution that will aim to meet the concerns of all the institutions in line with our institutional and international obligations. annex - position of the commission amendments: accept / acceptable in principle: 3 8 12 17 27 36 44 48 56 57 75 90 91 93 99 111 114 117 119 acceptable in part or subject to redrafting: 1 26 34 35 45 47 49 50 52 60 82 94 95 96 97 106 112 not acceptable: 2 4 5 6 7 9 10 11 13 14 15 16 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 28 29 30 31 32 33 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 46 51 53 54 55 58 59 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 92 98 100 101 102 103 104 105 107 108 109 110 113 115 116 118.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 7 july 2010, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on industrial emissions (integrated pollution prevention and control) (recast) (written by mr holger krahmer) (11962/3/2009 - c7-0034/2010 - 2007/0286 (cod)) (a7-0145/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, a key point that allows us to address problems of environmental protection and distortion of competition is, firstly, requiring bat conclusions to be used in setting permit conditions and, importantly, emission limit values. flexibility is still possible but must now be clearly justified. the commission can collect information on the use of this flexibility. the largest sources of pollution – large combustion plants – will have to apply best available techniques by mid-2020 or shut down by 2023. you are probably aware that our proposal was for a shorter time. all these measures, as well as provisions on monitoring inspections and public transparency, mean that this package should be agreed to allow us to move forward. the commission is certainly ready to help in this implementation process but i have stated many times that i will not hesitate to launch infringement proceedings if necessary. i hope that i have already proved that in the first half of my mandate. i believe that a level playing field is an important argument that we have to follow. concerning competition, of course we should take care of competitiveness and competition in europe and of course we want to compete with china – but not with their air-quality standards. even today we can see that in europe there are many premature deaths which prove to have been caused by poor-quality air conditions. i think it is fair to say that we give industry time to build changes into normal investment plans. we should also look to a positive side of the agenda: that we also gain a technological advantage. it is important also to recognise that the commission’s ippc recast proposal does not fundamentally change the existing 1996 ippc regime. the original proposal was based on a thorough impact assessment that took place over two years in members states’ industry and non-governmental organisations. it is also crucial to remember that the concept of best available techniques takes into account the costs of applying these techniques. it is also important to know that we have a lot of complementary policies to support industry: the strategic energy technology plan, the environmental technologies action plan, the seventh framework programme, the competition and innovation programme, structural funding and so on. to summarise what i have heard today: better environment, stay competitive, european jobs, sustainability, cutting costs, too many exemptions, stricter rules, more flexibility needed, interests, balanced rights. that is what the compromise is bringing. the fact is that we are moving. the fact is that we are moving in the right direction, in the direction of a better quality of life, a more healthy environment, a more level playing field for industry, with stimulus for new innovation. i think that the proposal which is on the table and which was excellently handled by the rapporteur deserves your support. it certainly has the support of the commission.
mr. krahmer, congratulations on your excellent work. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 7 july 2010, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market (rapporteurs: satu hassi and caroline lucas) (05885/4/2010 - c7-0053/2010 - 2008/0198 (cod)) (a7-0149/2010). i should like to thank mrs hassi for taking up this report which was already under way, since the original rapporteur was mrs lucas, who left her seat to take on other responsibilities in her country's parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is late and i will try to make it short, but not because the issues are less important. on the contrary, it is because of the high level of consensus in the room. forests are at the heart of the battle against climate change and at the heart of the battle for protecting biodiversity. together with the recent regulation on illegal, unregulated and unrecorded fishing, this means that in the european union we will have the instruments to counter illegality in two of our key natural resources: fisheries and forests. and, yes, it is also an important part of the fight against poverty. the impact of the regulation depends on effective implementation, and the challenge is far from over. however, today we can start to appreciate the fact that a solution on this difficult, but important, file has been found. we are clearly dealing with a proposal of a noble nature. i am looking forward to engaging in the implementation and enforcement process together with you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 7 july 2010, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, on the banking front, we are very much afraid of what is to come. the economy has transferred its rotten debts to finance, finance has handed the baby to the states, and the states are turning to the citizens, who will have to pay, if they can. so, mr president leterme, you know better than i do that europe must now do its duty as a nation of history, namely to impose a community impulse on europe's national leaders in the context of shared rigour, of course, but also in the context of recovery and innovation. in this tragedy we are living, there is no longer a national solution to the global crisis. many european leaders - your colleagues - look at the popularity polls. at this moment, the leaders of europe must look to history before it overwhelms us with the disorders of populism. belgium is a country which has always been a great european patriot. whether it's in good or bad condition is not the point, whether its leaders have a heart and a rigor, as well as a lofty view, this will save us.
mr president, mr leterme, i congratulate you on your speech. that was a very good presentation by this presidency. and i think that we can already draw one or more conclusions from this morning's debate: firstly, that this house - those of us who want to make europe, those of us who want to think positively about europe - supports your presidency and supports the effort you are going to make, and, moreover, knowing the difficulties of your government, wants to thank you doubly, because it is more difficult that you have come here today with such an ambitious programme. we thank you from the bottom of our hearts. second, focus on solving the economic issues. i think there's a great opportunity right now. i think we are close to reaching agreement on the financial supervision issues. focus on that. and third, get the trio to play. i believe that the trio of presidencies is a great innovation of the treaty of lisbon. it is not a gadget, it is a reality and we must do what the founding fathers said: think and act - in this case, as spaniards, belgians and hungarians - as europeans. thank you very much, mr leterme, and good luck!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. we ask the commission and the council to give this text serious consideration and, in view of their position and the explicit request of the belgian presidency that it needs a little time to try to reach an agreement in the near future, i am going to ask that the vote on the draft legislative resolution be postponed and that the report be referred back to committee. i must make it clear that this is parliament's last chance to reach an agreement at first reading and i would also like to point out to the president that if what is being put to the vote is whether or not the draft legislative resolution should be voted on, i will ask for a vote against.
member of the commission. - madam president, i should like to begin by briefly thanking mr sánchez-presedo for what he has just said, and i would like to add my thanks to the other rapporteurs, who have done and are doing a great job, and to all those who are helping them. i would like to say, on behalf of the commission of president barroso, that we are measuring, as far as we are concerned, both the political will and the good will of the european parliament on a fundamental subject, as set out in the various reports and proposals of the commission which aim to build an effective and credible supervisory architecture. this is a fundamental issue because it is the condition for the success of a number of other decisions on transparency, control, and - i was going to say simply - morality, in the whole of the financial services which have been singularly lacking in these for the last 15 years or so, as we saw through the last crisis. to achieve this objective of creating this architecture, we need a little more time, mr sánchez-presedo. the belgian presidency needs a little more time to gather political will on the part of the council, which is equivalent to that of parliament, as you say, and to that of the european commission. i would like to say on behalf of the commission that the council must take this goodwill and voluntarism seriously and use the time you are giving it to achieve this level of ambition. at any rate, of course, the discussion is ongoing. the commission will not, and cannot, take a position on all the amendments proposed at this stage, even though many of them are in line with our own approach. i want to confirm, by agreeing to the procedure you propose, that the commission will remain available day and night in the coming days to achieve this level of voluntarism and to build, by 1 january 2011, ladies and gentlemen, supervisory institutions, authorities and a systemic risk committee that are not only credible but also functioning effectively.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, on behalf of my group - and i think on behalf of all the rapporteurs - i am going to ask that in the next reports which make up this package - the giegold report, the goulard report, my own report and the skinner report - the amended commission proposal be put to a roll-call vote. it is important to know the support that this parliament has, the degree of mandate that we have to negotiate with the council.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would ask you to state very clearly the details of the vote. if the vote is on whether or not to vote on the draft legislative resolution, i would ask for a 'no' vote, but if the vote is on postponing the vote, i would recommend a 'yes' vote. i therefore ask you to state very clearly what is to be put to the vote.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i just wanted to thank the other rapporteurs, because we worked together in an exemplary way on a package that was difficult: we had before us a unanimously approved council agreement. this parliament now has a mandate which was also adopted almost unanimously, with the enormous advantage that the winds are blowing in favour of parliament's direction and not the council's text, which has become extraordinarily old. i thank my group, all the groups and parliament for a major victory today.
rapporteur. − madam president, i also suggest postponing the vote on the draft legislative resolution. yesterday afternoon, in the debate on the legislative package, no member of the council was present in this parliament.
in writing. at a time when inequalities are exploding and the unfairness of pay has become the norm in the financial world, i welcome the adoption of this directive as a first step towards capping pay and bonuses. we will continue to denounce these outrageous and abusive behaviours day after day, however, until we see action taken to reduce the gap between the low wages and the salaries of executives in large companies, by means of a european maximum income.
in writing. i voted in favour of the liotard report on novel foods because it excludes the sale of food from cloned animals from the rules for the authorization of novel foods. i believe that the european commission cannot continue to ignore the wishes of the citizens not to consume food derived from cloned animals. it is not guaranteed that the ingestion of these products does not pose a serious risk to health. cloned animals have high rates of malformations. we cannot allow the european commission to ignore this reality and endanger the health of citizens and the conservation of our ecosystem. i therefore believe that until it is guaranteed that these foods are not harmful to health, they cannot be allowed to be marketed.
in writing. − the vote on novel foods went very well. however, there was one downside: the amendment on the labelling of products produced from animals fed with genetically modified feedingstuffs was removed from the report. it was, remarkably, supported by a majority of meps (351+, 296–) but unfortunately the absolute majority (369) needed at second reading was not reached. as for the rest, the committee on the environment’s position was reaffirmed, with exclusion of foods derived from cloned animals and their descendants from the scope. before six months after the date of entry into force of this regulation, the commission shall present a legislative proposal to prohibit the placing on the market in the community of foods derived from cloned animals and their descendants. pending the entry into force, a moratorium should be imposed on the placing on the market of such foods.
in writing. − today’s vote on industrial emissions legislation is a step in the right direction for limiting the damage to our environment from industrial pollutants but it is regrettable that the final outcome falls short in key areas. though the new legislation brings some improvement, it still allows for too many exemptions. i am still dissatisfied by the final outcome which gives the all-clear to more air pollution by the oldest and dirtiest power plants. these power plants will be able to escape the rules for up to 12 more years. instead of rewarding good behaviour we are rewarding pollution, with european citizens paying the price. the aim of this directive is to ensure better protection of european citizens and the environment by obliging industries to limit their environmental pollution. i am disappointed that this weak compromise plays into the hands of those member states that rely on the most ancient large combustion plants. the eco-industry already employs more people than the car industry and this directive could have further promoted innovative, green industries. instead, the interests of the most polluting, out-of-date industries that have no real future were put first by a blocking minority in the council.
in writing. - i am very pleased that the european parliament has given the green light to a regulation banning trade in illegally harvested timber in the eu and introducing fines and other sanctions against infringers. the new legislation, agreed by parliament and the council, will apply from the end of 2012 and will contribute to the fight against deforestation and forest degradation. it will also give consumers more assurance about the origin of the wood in the products they buy. the new regulation, adopted by 644 votes to 25, with 16 abstentions, prohibits trade in eu timber from illegal logging and products made from it. it is estimated that 20% of timber products traded in the eu today are from illegal sources. until now, there was no explicit prohibition on trade in this raw material in the eu and therefore, even if the wood came from illegal logging, it could be legally traded on the european market.
in writing. − after two months of tenacious negotiations with council, the european parliament today voted on its amendments to the commission proposals for financial supervision. a broad coalition has made it clear that the parliament will only agree to the final package if ambitious rules for new european financial supervision are set. at the same time, the parliament has left open an opportunity for agreement by postponing the final first reading vote until september. the council must now grasp this chance to overcome its own lethargy and walk over the bridge that parliament has built. after 20 trialogue meetings, council has not presented a compromise offer, whereas parliament has submitted a comprehensive proposal. hence, the negotiations have turned out to be disappointing. the council negotiators have failed. as a european institution, the council must not leave itself hostage to national interests and must be prepared, if needed, to vote by qualified majority to reach agreement with the parliament. the european parliament will only agree to a first reading agreement in september if the european supervisory authorities are given real powers.
in writing. - the european parliament has just adopted a directive restricting bonuses in the banking sector. from january 2011, only 30% of the bonus can be paid in cash and at least half will be paid as shares or capital available to the bank in case of difficulties. in addition, variable incentives should be proportionate to wages. the rules adopted today also strengthen the capital requirements for banks. this means that, two years after the global financial crisis, these new rules will transform the culture of bonuses and end the incentives that drive bank managers to take excessive risks. a culture of high-risk, short-term bonuses is damaging the economy and it's the taxpayers who end up paying for it. since the banks have failed to introduce reforms, we are the ones doing the work for them.
in writing. − i support the strategy adopted by the rapporteurs on the so-called financial supervision package. meps have just voted in plenary on amendments to the texts setting up the eu's new supervisory architecture, tabled by the four main political groups (epp, s&d, alde, greens). the ep has decided not to vote on a legislative resolution in order to leave open the possibility of a first reading after the summer recess. the message is clear: parliament is willing to negotiate, but it is united in its view that the european authorities must be equipped with sufficient powers to prevent future crises and to strengthen the single market. the ball is now firmly in the council's court to come forward with the necessary compromises. this gesture is a final endeavour on the part of the rapporteurs to help the new belgian presidency – whose efforts to date we applaud – move the member states to a more satisfactory position.
in writing. − i supported the report led by ferreira according to which we, the ep, request the commission to submit to parliament by 31 december 2010, on the basis of articles 50 and 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, one or more legislative proposals relating to an eu crisis-management framework, an eu financial stability fund and a resolution unit, following the detailed recommendations made in the annex thereto, taking into account initiatives taken by international bodies, such as the g-20 and the international monetary fund, in order to ensure a global level playing field and based on a profound analysis of all alternatives available, including an impact assessment.
in writing. − we voted in favour at the end, although i am concerned at the fact that two of our amendments (numbers 4 and 5) were rejected. in concrete terms we wanted the resolution to say: ‘considers that there is a threat of a debt deflationary trap if uncoordinated and aggressive fiscal consolidation measures are implemented across the eu without proper account being taken of spillover effects’ and ‘is extremely concerned, in this connection, about the social impact of faster-than-expected fiscal consolidation across the eu and particularly in vulnerable euro area member states.’
in writing. - i am very pleased that the european parliament has approved our proposal that iceland's accession to the eu implies the cessation of whaling. the european parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy was properly implemented. it also calls on iceland to abandon its reservations to the international whaling commission. i also welcome the recent decision by eu leaders to open accession negotiations with iceland so that it can become the 28th member state. with today's vote we underline that the compensation to the british and dutch following the failure of icesave must be resolved bilaterally. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. parliament also stressed that iceland's accession would allow the eu to play a more active role in the arctic and stressed the country's 'strong democratic culture'. iceland is a party to the schengen agreement, a member of nato and has had a free trade agreement with the eu since 1973.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mrs ashton, mr šefčovič, unfortunately my group will not be voting in favour of the report on the european external action service tomorrow. i'm sorry about that. we are not going to do that, firstly because in this very complex process of creation we have yielded to the pressure of some member states and secondly because our political group has not succeeded in ensuring that what we considered essential in structuring and, in a way, monitoring the service is respected. firstly, we wanted it not to become a sui generis body, to ensure that the european parliament and the national parliaments have control, not only budgetary control, as has been established in madrid, but also parliamentary and political control. we must remember that we are the only democratically elected institution in the european union. we were particularly concerned that the military structures of the european union, as well as the civil-military structures, should be part of this service. we believe it is wrong to link the institutions with military personnel to the eeas: the european defence agency, the crisis management planning directorate, not to mention the intelligence services. the programming, planning and implementation of the financial instruments in particular and of the other instruments in general, in our view, should not be part of the eeas. we also believe that, given the important military orientation of this service - we recognize this - most of the civilian component of european foreign policy can and will be covered by the european security and defence policy, and in particular everything related to development cooperation and conflict resolution. i am sorry, therefore, that my group will not be voting in favour of this report, because it believes that the fundamental issue is not being resolved. it is true that progress has been made in madrid: progress has been made in budgetary control. but we are all aware that the european parliament will not have the last word. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, with the high representative's statement today and the vote tomorrow, the consultation procedure is concluded. it is therefore now appropriate to thank all those who have made it possible, especially the rapporteurs of the european parliament, to implement it faithfully and to make it operational so that it can enter into force as soon as possible, without losing sight of the fact that the european external action service is not an end in itself but an instrument for the european union to have a coherent, visible and effective foreign policy. i am convinced that the assurances given by mrs ashton in her statement are satisfactory from the point of view of political responsibility and are complementary to the prerogatives which the treaty confers on this parliament in the procedure of information, consultation and association. you can be sure, mrs ashton, that this parliament will be a loyal partner in the development of the common foreign and security policy, as we have already shown in our meetings with the new heads of delegation from washington and afghanistan, but we have the right to expect, mrs ashton, that the new service will be more effective and better than the existing one. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to wish you good luck in implementing the eeas and tell you that, as the evangelical mandate says, 'by their works you will know them'.
mr president, i think that all of us who believe in the european union have reason to be happy, especially in these times of economic and sometimes political crisis. i think we've made some progress. we are taking a big step forward with the creation and launching of this european external action service. i would like to congratulate not only the high representative but all those actors - such as, for example, our good friend elmar brok in the european parliament - who have facilitated the necessary agreements. i particularly liked the phrase you used, mrs ashton, that the interests of the european union must be defended above all. i also say to you - it is not a piece of advice, just a comment - that what is required here is efficiency, in the words of my good colleague josé ignacio salafranca. i would add: humility and efficiency, following the example of the president-in-office of the council, mr van rompuy. i am sure you will succeed and, of course, as secretary-general of the european people's party, i want to support you, with the support of our whole group, in this immense task which now lies before you.
madam president, at this moment of international prominence for the balkans, a european parliament resolution focusing on the problems of the people of kosovo would have been very timely, but unfortunately we risk turning this opportunity into a mistake if the resolution we adopt the day after tomorrow ignores that a common position is only possible if there is a resolution of the united nations security council or there is an agreement between the parties, that is, if we do not know that international law must prevail, which is not a branch of statistics, but which, in the case of international law, is very precise and does not depend on majorities, nor percentages, nor on the number of member states that recognize a state or not, but which establishes very specific criteria. we will also be making a mistake if we adopt a resolution which makes it clear that the absence of a common position does not prevent the european union from committing itself to kosovo in the framework of a dialogue process for stabilisation and association. the european union must consolidate stability and peace in kosovo by supporting multi-religious, multi-party, multi-ethnic states, etc., and i believe that states that respect international law contribute to this.
madam president, on 17 february 2008 kosovo declared independence and sixty-nine countries, including twenty-two from the european union, have already recognised the new country. only five have not done so: one of them is spain, which has lost the opportunity to accept it during its european presidency, perhaps conditioned by its state reality. we must support the european perspective of kosovo as an independent country because its citizens have decided so. we must help and work with kosovo to achieve political and social stability, and work with them to improve relations with serbia, to consolidate their institutions and their democracy and to ensure their possible integration into the european union. i ask spain in particular to recognize the independence of kosovo because that is what its citizens have decided and what europe has also recognized.
madam president, commissioners, mr president-in-office of the council, there is no doubt that the gulf of mexico disaster has raised awareness and, above all, has highlighted the need to analyse in depth and take measures to prevent or alleviate such situations. these things happen in europe too. they have happened. i am a national of a country, spain, where a few years ago we had a problem with such dumping in the north of the country because of transport problems, because of shipping problems, in that case. when faced with such a situation, the risk is to act emotionally and without thinking too much and therefore without a balance in decisions, which can have unintended consequences. i think that what the commissioners have said, that decalogue which commissioner oettinger has set out, is an approach to a very important and very interesting problem, and it is in the right direction. we must act decisively in the areas of civil liability and partnership, and reach joint positions with the international maritime organisation, better harmonize the laws of the member states, and so on, but we must do so in such a way that the actions we take do not have unintended consequences. so we must assess very carefully what needs to be done, also economically, and its impact.
the next item is the report by mr george lyon, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the future of the cap after 2013 (2009/2236 (ini)) (a7-0204/2010). we are pleased that commissioner cioloş is with us. in the strasbourg sessions the commission occasionally appoints a commissioner to attend the session, but i think it is a very remarkable gesture of responsibility that the commissioner responsible for the area in question should be present and take part in this debate. i think that is an extraordinarily positive development.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming months we shall be entering fully into the debate on the new cap. it is important to reach a good agreement, so i hope that the belgian presidency will achieve what the spanish presidency has not achieved, namely to steer the discussions in such a way that the member states commit themselves already now to maintaining in the future a really strong common agricultural policy, with a budget sufficient to meet the needs of the 27 member states, new and old, and not to have, as in 2005, a lack of money and the need to invent modulation. the next reform of the cap will put at risk the viability of a sector which not only provides intangible goods and services, such as environmental protection, but which should also ensure the food supply for european citizens. we have already seen painful shortages in the past, and it is therefore necessary for the european parliament to make security of supply based on community production the main objective of the next reform, while at the same time making other contributions, such as the fight against climate change.
mr president, for years the cap has been making adjustment efforts and we are now at a new stage in this process of permanent reform. commissioner, the lyon report recognises the role that agriculture, as a strategic sector, can play in contributing to the priorities of the new europe 2020 strategy. we want a strong cap after 2013, which, without prejudice to the specificity of some sectors or regions, preserves its common character. the market orientation will remain. however, the increasing volatility of markets, together with the requirements of the union's international commitments, can have a negative impact on farmers' incomes. we ask for a real safety net. direct aid should be fully financed from the community budget and the cap should have an adequate budgetary envelope to meet the new challenges and objectives it faces, at least at the same level as in 2013, as further cuts could compromise its effectiveness. the commissioner, our farmers will once again have to face adaptation efforts. any changes must be accompanied by realistic transitional periods. i would like to thank mr lyon and all the other rapporteurs for their work. we have now obtained a report which we can support in parliament and which will be a positive signal to put an end to the uncertainty of european farmers.
now we have a problem: there are 23 members who have asked to speak for the president's 'eye-hunt' shift. you know that the rules of procedure provide for five speakers. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. since the subject seems very important to me - the test is the exceptional number of people who have asked to speak - we will give the floor to ten, twice as many as is planned.
i have two requests for the floor on the observance of the rules of procedure. i would like to ask you to take the floor first, mrs mcguinness.
mrs mcguinness, i assure you that i have been watching you most of the time and i have seen you ask for the floor. but the problem is that this item is not structured in this way, that is, it is not structured to give priority to the members of the committee concerned, but it is structured to give priority to those members who 'catch the eye' of the president before others. that's the rule. and it is stipulated that five speak and, anyway, we have granted the floor to ten. it's a very important issue. the members have allocated the time of the groups so that everyone has a minute, but hardly anyone has spoken for less than a minute and a half, and there is therefore no way of responding positively, as we all would like, to those who wish to speak outside the time allocated to their respective groups. and now mr obermayr has the floor also on the question of compliance with the rules of procedure.
you are absolutely right. this issue of the president's "eye hunting" is obviously first and foremost subjective, because the president has his eye, but he does not have an eye like the reptiles, which is a wide and multifaceted eye, so he is being hunted by those who hunt him, and that is well helped by the staff of the secretariat. but you are right: this is a matter which has not been regulated in a reasonable way - i understand - by the bureau of parliament. for example, what mrs mcguinness says that the members of the committee concerned should have priority, seems to me absolutely reasonable, but that is not the way it is intended. the only thing that is foreseen is that the president orders the debate according to his own judgement, which obviously puts the president in extremely complicated situations. moreover, members themselves do not follow the rules of procedure, because the blue card is not intended to ask for the floor in the 'eye of the beholder'. the blue card is intended to interrupt the speaker who is speaking at the moment, to ask him a question of thirty seconds. however, there are members here who get their blue card permanently. we will have to make a short course so that members understand that the blue card has a certain utility and that, to ask for the floor in the 'catch the eye', you raise your hand, you raise the white card or you use any other mechanism, except the blue card. but i don't want to prolong the debate. we have already accumulated a lot of backlog and in the time we have used on this issue we could have had two or three interventions.
member of the commission. - mr president, i do not know if many questions have been asked. i have noted above all that certain principles have been affirmed, which, as we have seen, have been well reflected in the report. in any case, what i have essentially learned from this debate is that we need a common agricultural policy, an agricultural policy which must be community, and we also need a budget which must be in line with the objectives we set for this agriculture. i therefore consider that a realistic budget is needed. and i think that a realistic budget is one which is in line with the objectives set for the common agricultural policy. what we are seeing is that farmers are being asked to do more and more. of course, there is also a call for better use of the resources available and for them to be displayed more clearly. i see that my colleague janusz lewandowski, the budget commissioner, is here. perhaps this is precisely to confirm that the cap will have a budget that is in line with the objectives we set for it. i also stressed that in order for agriculture, the common agricultural policy, to achieve the objectives it is set, it is necessary to take account of all the differences between all the types of agriculture that exist in the european union. this diversity must be taken into account if, in the regions where it is expressed, these different types of agriculture are to contribute to the achievement of objectives concerning not only the supply of markets, production and security of supply of markets, but also a move towards a better consideration of the environment, the management of natural resources and the capacity for economic development in rural areas. we need to consider how agriculture and the agri-food sector can contribute to this. i also felt that all this thinking about the future of the common agricultural policy must also help to give encouragement to young people, a perspective to young people who want to settle down, who want to invest in agriculture, so that farming is also an activity of the future, and so that we can achieve our objectives. i also want to send a clear signal and answer mr kelly about direct aid. i think that in order to achieve a fairer agriculture, a more transparent and effective common agricultural policy, it is obvious that it is necessary to define clear criteria for the distribution of this direct aid in accordance with the objectives that we are going to set ourselves. so, in my view, historical references are not fair, transparent, objective criteria. we need to replace these historical references with much clearer objectives, which will create a certain fairness and allow for a better reflection of the diversity of agriculture that exists in the european union. this will enable the member states and the regions to make better use of the resources at their disposal. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that we need a common agricultural policy for europe. we need a common agricultural policy for the whole of the european union and, of course, a common agricultural policy which does not prevent other regions of the world from developing their own agriculture.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 8 july 2010, at 12.00 hours. i would like to reiterate my apologies to the colleagues who were not allowed to speak. and, as mrs. mcguinness says, you can put your contribution in writing. i shall raise this issue at the bureau because it is a matter that needs to be clarified. i shall also propose to the bureau - and i hope that everyone will support it - that in the 'eye-catching' procedure members who are not present when the debate begins and the rapporteur presents his report or the commissioner takes the floor should not be allowed to speak. we are faced with a situation in which some members have been outraged because they were not given the floor but have not stayed to listen to either the commissioner or the rapporteur explaining and presenting the conclusions. we must make a rigorous effort, but we must all do it. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the implications for european agriculture of the resumption of negotiations with mercosur with a view to the conclusion of an association agreement, by mairead mcguinness, albert deß, georgios papastamkos, véronique mathieu, mariya nedelcheva, michel dantin, giovanni la via, elisabeth jeggle, peter jahr, christa köstß, elisabeth köstinger, esther de lange, sergio paolo frances silvestris, astrid lulling, béla gfelder, esther herranz garcía, gabriel mato adrover, herbert dorfmann, jarosław kalinowski, joseph daul, maria do céu patrão neves, clawlawlaw adam siekierski, ricu nicu, hans-peter mayer and jean-pierre audy, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, and by mr manuel baden-baden, mr manuel baden-baden, mr luis baden-baden, mr luis baden-baden-baden, mr luis baden-baden-baden-baden, mr luis baden-baden-baden-baden-baden and mr luis baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden-baden
mrs mcguinness, as you know, because you are a veteran member of the house, it is the conference of presidents that has decided that the debate should be organised in this way, and that is how it is done. i understand your unhappiness with the subject, but i would ask you to understand that we are not going to start a debate on it now because otherwise the other members of the committee will not be able to speak either.
mr nicholson, we take note of your words and i will of course convey your concern to the bureau of parliament. it's not the administration that's hosting the debate. the administration helps the political bodies to organise the debate.
thank you very much, mrs. mcguinness. i'll grant you the time you haven't consumed now.
i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the speakers who have spoken so far, including mr capoulas santos, are the authors of the first question we are debating, and the next speaker, mr yáñez-barnuevo garcía, is the author of the second question.
the author. mr president, today is a day of congratulations: first of all to the spanish foreign minister, mr moratinos, who has managed to bring several cuban political prisoners to spain, or is about to do so; also to guillermo fariñas, the political prisoner who, with his hunger strike, his tenacity and his sacrifice, has achieved the release of these prisoners. and, above all, speaking now of the subject which brings us here, i would like to congratulate the council and the commission on the start of negotiations for a major trade agreement, which is also political and of cooperation, between the european union and mercosur, which was decided at the madrid summit on 18 may. contrary to what is said, this parliament has repeatedly supported such negotiations, both in the delegation for relations with the mercosur countries and in the delegation to the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly (eurolat) and in the plenary during several legislatures. we are talking about what can and should be the largest trade agreement in the world, which will bring development, prosperity, progress and employment to 800 million people by dramatically increasing the exchange of goods, commodities and services between the two regions. agriculture is only one part of that macro-agreement. the negotiations must seek balanced agreements, but not with the mentality of protectionism, which is the enemy of development and well-being; european protectionism and protectionism also in some of the mercosur countries. moreover, industry and services account for 97% of european gdp and agriculture for only 2.1%. the fears must therefore be dealt with in their proper terms of proportion and justification. the next eu-brazil summit, on 14 july, should therefore serve to give impetus and speed to these negotiations, the conclusion of which is all the more important given the economic crisis we are suffering, and to the solution of which this agreement will contribute.
mr president, we all welcome the release of political prisoners in cuba. however, in the chapter on congratulations i have missed a congratulation to the catholic church and, above all, to the role played by this parliament, which has been key in the resolute defence of all those in cuba who are fighting for their freedom and dignity. as regards the mercosur issue, some clarifications are necessary. as commissioner de gucht has explained, the commission presented negotiating directives for the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and mercosur, which were approved by the council and this parliament. the negotiations have been stalled for six years and it is clear that, on the horizon of the summit of heads of state and government of the european union, latin america and the caribbean, there has been a relaunch of these negotiations, with the support of this parliament too. the aim at the moment is to reach a balanced agreement which takes account of the interests of all the sectors of the european union as a whole. i do not see why certain sectors or interests should be harmed in this negotiation. it has not been for ten years and it need not be in the future. this will depend on the firmness of our negotiators. in any event, if that were to happen, it is clear that the commission would have to arbitrate compensatory measures for the sectors concerned. this has been done with third countries, with acp countries and in the latest agreements with the andean community. and if it has been done to these countries, all the more reason to do so in defence of the european union's banana producers.
mr president, the relaunch of the eu-mercosur negotiations is part of a positive context which makes it possible to restore the dialogue on trade relations. the talks have only just been resumed and it is good that today's debate serves the commission to take note of what we think. even if the european union has offensive interests in sectors such as wine, olive oil, meat products or preserved fruit and vegetables, it is logical to assume that they will in no way compensate for the impact that is expected on community livestock and agricultural production, such as sugar or cereals. i ask the commission to work towards a balanced agreement as a whole which takes account of the sensitivity of certain productions. it should include the necessary mechanisms to prevent malfunctions and strict control of the sanitary and phytosanitary quality levels of imported products. another important issue is to avoid overlapping results with doha and the european union doubling its agricultural concessions. that said, i join the criticism of the restrictive measures adopted by argentina against certain european products and i hope that the commission has acted firmly to resolve them promptly.
mr president, this report is a response to the frustration and helplessness of the community fisheries sector. this sector, commissioner, does not demand protectionism, but what it does demand at this stage, given the history of ignorance of those responsible for the dg trade, is that it not be further undermined. we therefore support in particular the request in mr cadec's report that the negotiations on the fisheries chapters be transferred from the competence of dg commerce to that of dg maritime affairs and fisheries, as is the case with agriculture, since we are also dealing with particularly sensitive products, the exemplary case being tuna. and as regards tuna, we have a glaring example in the agreements with papua new guinea and fiji, through the repeal of the rules of origin, which will only favour our main competitors - thailand and the philippines - no matter under what conditions. mr commissioner, are you aware that, in addition to drowning the community sector, your policy is also leading papua new guinea into a dynamic of low-quality job creation and zero sustainable development? do you know the complaints of ngos in the area about child labour, unsanitary and unhygienic conditions in factories, the disastrous environmental impact on the madang coast and illegal fishing? is it your responsibility to prevent it?
mr president, commissioner damanaki, commissioner de gucht, thank you for being here to discuss a very important report on the import regime. the fisheries sector is an important issue in which two fundamental aspects must be emphasized: we are not self-sufficient and there is often unfair competition, so we must ensure fisheries in europe and we must avoid unfair competition. i would like to say to the commissioner for trade: fisheries cannot continue to be regarded as a 'non-sensitive product'; it cannot continue to be governed by the amna rules; it cannot be a product like industry; it must be a 'sensitive product' and it must be governed by the rules of the wto and the fao. we cannot therefore be sustainable, we cannot guarantee the maintenance of species and we cannot make a real market action if we do not consider fisheries as a 'sensitive product'.
mr president, if we have now voted on paragraph 44, my vote was in favour and i had marked it as against because there was a slight confusion: we were told that we were voting for paragraph 45 and we were actually voting for paragraph 44.
mr president, as we have said on other occasions, no vote by the spanish socialist delegation can be interpreted as accepting the international recognition, implicit or explicit, of the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo. we also want to express our opposition by voting against the request by this parliament to the member states of the european union for international recognition of a territory whose secession is not supported by a security council resolution or by an agreement between the parties. we reaffirm that the international law in force is determined by the provisions of un security council resolution 1244/99. we do not, however, question a european perspective for the balkans and its inhabitants and we believe that interregional dialogue, as promoted by the spanish presidency of the council at the high level conference held in sarajevo on 2 june, can be an effective way of doing so.
in writing. - i have again voted against the swift agreement for the processing and transfer of european banking data to the united states under the pretext of the fight against terrorism, because i consider the us claim to be unacceptable and to be an attack on the freedoms and rights of european citizens. with their proposal, the most conservative forces intended to hand us over to american interests, without regard for the security or privacy of citizens. the european parliament cannot allow the civil rights and freedoms of europeans to be violated under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.
in writing. − the adoption of the new swift agreement by a majority in parliament is a blow for the negotiations on a binding protection of fundamental rights in international security cooperation. there were some improvements to the first draft, but there is still fundamental criticism of the massive data transfers without initial suspicion and the over-long data retention periods. the grand coalition of conservatives, social democrats and liberals has therefore accepted lower standards than the existing principles of the rule of law and is risking a regulation that is in breach of eu law. we greens have therefore opposed the new agreement and, as a progressive force, aim for stronger privacy protection and the principle of the rule of law in transatlantic cooperation. as parliament’s rapporteur for the comprehensive data protection agreement planned by justice commissioner viviane reding, i will personally work with the us administration and the us congress on binding rules in this field. it is therefore really sad to see that the european parliament has weakened its influence on the united states by accepting the swift agreement today. a real change towards binding fundamental rights protection in the fight against terrorism requires greater courage and effort.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the european external action service because i believe that it institutionalises the militarisation of the european union. i have voted to express my absolute rejection of the negotiating procedure for the creation of the eeas, in which the rapporteurs and catherine ashton have given in to pressure from some member states and have completely forgotten the rules of democracy. the eeas is going to become a sui generis institution that escapes the basic control mechanisms of any democratic system. i believe that we must ensure that the european parliament, the only democratically elected institution of the eu, and the national parliaments have not only budgetary but also political control of the eeas. my group is particularly concerned about the important military orientation of the eeas and that the bulk of the civilian component of european foreign policy is placed under the umbrella of the european security and defence policy. more specifically, in all matters relating to development cooperation and conflict resolution. for these reasons, the gue/ngl, committed to the eu's values of peace and demilitarisation, does not support the creation of the eeas.
in writing. − parliament’s approval paves the way for a more coherent and effective european foreign policy that better meets citizens’ expectations. a better service could have been possible, though. we regret that ms ashton, the commission and a number of national governments did not have the guts to embrace a more ambitious solution. we support the compromise because parliament managed to improve ms ashton’s original proposal considerably. a strong human rights structure, safeguards for development policy and against renationalisation of community policies, strengthened democratic scrutiny, a more transparent foreign affairs budget and gender balance in recruitment are cases in point. the deal is not flawless, however. its weak points include the unclearly defined crisis management structures, the lack of permanent deputies for ms ashton and the limited scope of the eeas’s consular services to citizens. much will now depend on how the compromise is implemented – the ball is therefore back in the court of ms ashton, the member states and the commission. they must work together, create a common esprit de corps and overcome divisive competition.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution on kosovo because it encourages the five member states which have not recognised kosovo's unilateral independence to do so. the group of the european united left - nordic green left has always been against the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo because it is an act contrary to international law. on the contrary, we remain committed to a return to dialogue in a mutually satisfactory manner, based on un security council resolution 1244/99, in accordance with international law, as the only possible way of achieving peace and stability in the region.
in writing. - on behalf of the spanish delegation to the epp group, we wish to state that the reason for our vote on the resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo is that this resolution treats kosovo as if it were an independent state in a state of complete normality, without taking into account that the status of this territory remains highly controversial in the international community, that an advisory opinion of the international court of justice is even pending, and that kosovo has not been recognised by five member states of the european union, including spain.
in writing. − the european parliament today sent a clear signal that the future of independent kosovo lies in eu integration. this is a signal of encouragement for the government as well as the citizens of kosovo. in addition, it is a clear request to the five eu member states which have not yet recognised kosovo as a state to promptly do so in order to raise the effectiveness of our support. a clear majority of meps rejected a further discussion on the question of kosovo’s status, bearing in mind that a statement from the international court of justice (icj) is due in july. with this resolution, parliament is in favour of starting talks on visa liberalisation as soon as possible. the people of kosovo should no longer be refused the freedom of travel which the eu will have probably granted to the other states in the region by the end of the year. my resolution calls for this necessary step to urgently be implemented to free the kosovars from their regional as well as international isolation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on albania because it confirms parliament’s support for albania’s european prospects, once the country has reached a level of political stability and reliability and the copenhagen criteria are fully met. it notes the progress made in the reform process, stressing that further substantial efforts are needed in terms of the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law and of the sustainable development of the country. the resolution welcomes the adoption of the proposal on visa liberalisation and calls for the introduction of a visa waiver for albanian citizens by the end of 2010. it stresses the importance of the separation of powers and the respect for an independent judiciary, calling for particular progress to be made on the issue. the issues of corruption and organised crime, and trafficking in human beings are among the most worrying situations in the country on which the resolution takes a stand. the report also deals with minority rights, the roma, trade union rights and the social situation, womens’ rights and consultation of the government with civil society on the draft laws and reforms undertaken. it encourages the development and use of renewable energy, public transport and environmental legislation.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this resolution, especially because it welcomes the progress made in respect of the judicial system, but underlines that implementation of the reforms is still at an early stage; takes the view that judicial reform, including the enforcement of court decisions, is a key prerequisite for albania’s eu membership application process, and underlines the importance of the separation of powers in a democratic society; stresses that a transparent, impartial and efficient judiciary, independent of all political or other pressure or control, is fundamental to the rule of law, and calls for the urgent adoption of a comprehensive long-term strategy in this field, including a roadmap for adopting the necessary legislation and implementing measures; calls on the opposition to be involved in the drafting process and to give full support to the reform of the judiciary; stresses, moreover, that the judiciary needs to be provided with sufficient funding to enable it to operate effectively throughout the country; looks forward, therefore, to new assistance initiatives from the commission and welcomes, in this regard, the recent inauguration of a serious crimes court in tirana.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this resolution mainly because it calls for a substantial increase in eu humanitarian aid to the people affected by the recent violence in southern kyrgyzstan, as well as for comprehensive use of the instrument for stability, and because it stresses our belief that a new level of eu engagement in southern kyrgyzstan will be necessary in the longer term as well; reiterates parliament’s call to the commission to prepare proposals for a reallocation of funds under the development cooperation instrument designed to put the eu in a better position to give a sustained response to the new situation in kyrgyzstan; and maintains that a focus on human security is essential in the eu’s central asia policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution of all the groups in parliament on hiv/aids because it deals with important elements of this problem, such as the defence of universality in access to public health services for all citizens. the resolution also calls on governments to fulfil their obligation to make public health care available to all citizens. the resolution also protects the sexual and reproductive health rights of hiv-positive people. it also stressed the need for appropriate funding for research into new preventive measures, including vaccines.
in writing. at the dawn of the next international aids conference in vienna from 18 to 23 july 2010, i would like to join the resolution adopted today in sending a strong message to national governments. indeed, new laws are urgently needed to provide affordable and effective anti-hiv medicines, including antiretrovirals and other safe and effective medicines. i would like to remind you that only 23% of hiv patients are aware of antiretroviral treatment in europe and central asia. for example, the baltic states are the countries in the european union that most need to implement policies to combat aids. i therefore call on the european union agency for fundamental rights to collect more data on the situation of people living with hiv/aids and to ensure that people living with hiv/aids continue to have the right to a full social, sexual and reproductive life.
in writing. − the joint resolution was adopted as negotiated with 400 votes in favour and 166 against, despite the ppe group requesting split votes on sexual and reproductive rights, which it does every time. it also shows that the ppe group is divided on the issue. i am happy with the result, especially because all our considerations related to sexual and reproductive rights are in.
in writing. - unfortunately, the joint resolution contains positive references to the european security strategy and the common security and defence policy which both i and my group reject. however, because of the great importance of the convention on cluster munitions (ccm) which has been adopted by 107 countries, i and my group, the gue/ngl, also endorse the joint resolution on the entry into force of this convention and the role of the european union. i believe that the joint resolution can be seen as a step towards banning cluster bombs, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − with an overwhelming majority, the european parliament has sent a strong signal against this perfidious threat to humans in war and crisis areas. thousands of people continue to be affected by cluster munitions to this day: almost exclusively civilians, and in particular many children who frequently confuse the bomblets with balls and toys. thus, the european parliament took the only possible position on this indiscriminate and inhumane weapon: a united ‘no’ to cluster munitions in europe and throughout the world. the european parliament demands that all member states and candidate countries which have not yet signed or ratified the international treaty to ban cluster munitions should do so as soon as possible, preferably by the end of the year. we greens were successful in our demand that the countries which have not yet been named, should be named – allowing civil society to apply pressure where it is needed most. estonia, finland, greece, latvia, poland, romania, slovakia and turkey have yet to sign and ratify this treaty. bulgaria, cyprus, the czech republic, hungary, italy, lithuania, the netherlands, portugal and sweden have signed but still have to ratify the treaty in their national parliaments.
in writing. - the current common agricultural policy provides support for a speculative, off-the-shelf industrial production system which benefits large farms rather than small producers. the decoupling of aid favours large landowners and endangers small farms and family farming. despite the failure of the lisbon strategy, the eu has not changed its economic policy. it is not about food security, but about competitiveness, which only benefits the large multinationals. i believe that the agricultural sector must be considered as a strategic sector in the european union. i therefore believe that a thorough reform of the cap is necessary to guarantee small farmers access to aid, land, seeds and water and thus support a social, productive and sustainable agricultural model.
in writing. − the greens/efa have been able to include an important number of amendments which focused on environmental and social conditioning of direct payments, measures against climate change, a broader and more inclusive approach to rural territorial development and fair income for farmers. we also have been able to introduce a clear distinction between different levels of competition in farming and marketing of food products and supported a clear statement to replace the current basis of historical yields and income by payments to farmers by an inclusion of the principle of ‘public goods’ in direct payment calculations. thus, the adoption of this report is highly satisfactory.
in writing. − this report was originally a defence of a protectionist stance with respect to imports, mostly in the belief that eu fishermen should have preferential access to the eu market, except when they cannot catch enough, in which case eu processors should be able to import. since our belief is that too much international trade leads to over-exploitation and depletion of fish stocks as countries seek to increase their exports, there was a good basis for common ground. indeed, we got a good number of our amendments adopted, the most important one pointing out that, even if international trade in fish products can lead to increased food security in developing countries, it has also led to increased fishing in order to supply the export market, which can exacerbate stock depletion. other amendments stressed the need to strengthen resource management and fisheries surveillance, and the need for responsible consumption, and noted that fish supplies come from a wild natural resource which is limited in quantity, which means that there is a limit to how much fish can be caught, exported and consumed.
author. - madam president, judge afiuni has released eligio cedeño on parole in accordance with venezuelan law and following the opinion of the united nations working group on arbitrary detention. for that reason, she has been imprisoned in a maximum security prison, in conditions that endanger her life. president chavez has publicly asked the prosecutor to request the maximum penalty and the national assembly to pass a law to increase his sentence retroactively. amnesty international and the united nations high commissioner for human rights have expressed their deep concern. this is not an isolated case, your honours. on the contrary, it demonstrates the autocratic and authoritarian drift of a regime which, under the guise of democratic elections, closes down the adversarial media, orders confiscations and arrests political opponents, in contravention of respect for human rights and the rule of law. we therefore call for the immediate release of judge afiuni.
the author. - madam president, i am also on the line with mrs de keyser. when we were asked a few days ago to discuss this matter as a matter of urgency, i said that mrs afiuni's specific case deserved attention. perhaps not in the form of an emergency resolution. perhaps in the form of a letter that we could sign by different members of parliament showing our concern and showing the request that we made or that we should have made and that we continue to make to the venezuelan president so that the judicial guarantees of any process are fulfilled, also in the case of judge afiuni. that was the intention, and with that intention our group has also tabled a motion for a resolution in which we have put forward some points which coincide with some of the opinions which have been expressed and which i think it is important to remember. however, what we have found in this process is that, rather than a resolution on a specific case of human rights violation, or the particular situation that the judge is experiencing at this moment, there has been rather an allegation from the point of view of the venezuelan opposition. it's no secret to anyone that we have an election coming up very soon. and no one is unaware that this resolution is going to be used politically, politically! in venezuela. i am very clear about my no affinities or political sympathies towards mr. chávez. i totally did. but i also do not want this parliament to be used to campaign for the opposition, which is now using a particular case to discredit a whole policy, with which one may more or less agree, but which, in any case, has to be debated politically. and this is not exactly the debate we are having today, which should have taken place in another context, but not today, not here, not now. the resolution on cases of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law has a very specific mandate and a very specific purpose and you have been using this space for a long time to do other things that have nothing to do with the specific and specific denunciations of human rights violations. and this has long since been a matter for reflection by the whole house, by all the groups and, above all, for the sake of human rights.
the author. - mr posselt, it is a matter of priorities. two months ago we debated this very question here, on the occasion of an urgent resolution on venezuela. what i am saying is that we should be clear about what is important and what are the priorities. and if we have to have a debate on venezuela in the afet committee, let us do so, but let us not use this session to do things that have nothing to do with the fundamental, concrete and timely denunciation of the violation of human rights.
madam president, this is not the first time i have spoken about venezuela and the violation of human rights in this beautiful country. and i'm afraid it won't be the last. in my previous speech i referred to journalists. today, to judges, like judge afiuni, and always to citizens, who, like the thousands of canaries who live there, just want to live in peace and freedom; citizens who aspire to preserve their lands and their accounts without the permanent uncertainty of "what will happen tomorrow". venezuela has been a land of welcome for many. today, unfortunately, it is a country where freedom of speech and other freedoms and rights are memories of the past. and here today, we are talking about human rights and those who violate them. well, from here, our support for judge afiuni and for all those who live in venezuela, and our hope that the regime of freedoms will become a reality again.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action in the field of trade policy. but to avoid any possible negative effects on european industry, it is essential to have an effective safeguard clause. that is the work which my colleagues and i have been doing for months in the committee on international trade, and from this also derives the importance of parliament as a whole now strongly supporting the whole package of amendments. the report was adopted by 27 votes to one abstention last june. this clause will make it possible to apply safeguard measures if tariff reductions on south korean imports threaten to cause serious injury to the european industry. as you know, under the new powers conferred on parliament following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the adoption of this regulation is being done under the codecision procedure. unfortunately, it was not possible to hold a trialogue with a mandate from the council before the summer break. the first official trilogue took place on 30 august, and both the shadow rapporteurs and the speaker were able to hear the council's reaction to our amendments. this meeting has enabled us to make progress on many points and to define the final text of some paragraphs, and our feeling after this contact is that we believe there is a real willingness and effort on the part of the council to reach agreement on the most conflicting points, something which we of course very positively value. at the same time, however, we believe that there has not been enough time to specify the council's position on those points where its opinion differs from that voted on in the committee on international trade. we therefore unanimously decided in all the political groups that the time had come for parliament to take a decision on the amendments adopted in the committee on international trade last july, amendments which are of vital importance for the applicability and effectiveness of the safeguard clause. at the same time, the unanimous decision was taken not to close the door on a possible agreement at first reading, which we firmly believe will be possible when the council has defined its position. we shall therefore vote tomorrow on the amendments from the committee on international trade only and, in accordance with rule 55, postpone the vote on the legislative report to the second part-session in october, when we hope to conclude the legislative procedure in a positive way. we believe that the report incorporates a whole series of improvements such as the creation of an 'online' platform which will make it possible to speed up the processes, the possibility of industry being able to initiate an investigation process, the obligation for the commission to draw up reports, or the improvements in the monitoring and surveillance of korean imports, all of which are areas where we have already reached a principle of agreement with the council. i think that's a good result, but we think it's still not enough. there are other even more fundamental points which deserve the full attention of the negotiators and which all the political groups must defend here, as we did in the committee on international trade. i am referring essentially to four points. firstly, to mitigate the possible risk to the most vulnerable member states by establishing, region by region, a regional clause to avoid the impact on certain sensitive industries. we must not forget that the safeguard clause is essentially temporary and its aim is precisely to safeguard the most sensitive economic sectors so that they have sufficient time to adapt to the new situation. secondly, the need to clearly establish the monitoring of those products which are affected by the 'duty drawback' clause. thirdly, the defence of parliament's role in the process of initiating the inquiry and, lastly, the decision-making process or comitology. as i have already stressed the goodwill shown by the belgian presidency during the negotiations, i would like to mention finally the vital role which the commission is playing and will play in bringing the whole negotiation to a successful conclusion.
member of the commission. − madam president, as several members have stressed, negotiations are ongoing between the commission, parliament and council, so i will limit myself to some summary remarks. firstly, concerning the co2 provision, i had a discussion with the korean minister for trade about ten days ago in da nang. we discussed the co2 provisions they are going to initiate in korea. these are very important because, if the content were not acceptable, it could make the concessions the koreans have made for european car exports seem rather hollow. it is clear that the korean government will come forward with proposals before 15 october, which means that we will be fully aware of what they contain before we have the final discussion on ratification. we will follow this matter very closely. i made it very clear to the korean minister that if this is not satisfactory, then this is a no-go for us in europe. let me also add something on the agreement. there is in fact already an agreement between the united states and korea but, up to now, the us administration has not proposed it to the us congress. there is talk that there will be new discussions between korea and the us. let me just stress that the korean minister has stated very clearly that, if anything changes in the agreement between the us and korea, this will automatically also apply to europe. so the fear that something might happen between korea and the us that would be detrimental for europe is not correct. it will automatically apply to europe as well. on duty drawback, we agreed to monitor this, from its entry into force, in the sensitive sectors. we can also take that information into account in safeguards investigations. we are very close to an agreement on this in the trialogue discussions. i have rather more problems with the possibility of parliament initiating proceedings, and with the regional safeguards, because regional safeguards, to my mind, are no longer possible under lisbon. we are prepared to discuss possible alternatives to this, but the council’s legal service has made it very clear that this would completely contradict the lisbon treaty. so we will have to be careful there. i must say that, as far as the possible initiation of proceedings is concerned, i do not see much room for this. to my mind, that is not what i would call the proper role of parliament. obviously you can ask the commission to initiate these proceedings by voting through a resolution, but i have doubts as to whether there should be a right to initiate them formally. i would like to make a final remark concerning my introductory speech. thank you for listening with great concentration to what i said in that intervention, namely that a decision will most likely be adopted once the european parliament has given its consent to the fta and an agreement on the safeguard regulation has been reached. you will probably have some difficulty with the words ‘most likely’, but i cannot put it any other way for the simple reason that it is up to the council to decide. i cannot speak for the council. i can say what the commission’s position is, and we will insist with the council that it would only do this once the safeguard regulation is adopted and parliament has given its consent to the fta. that is our clear position. parliament should ask in the trialogue for the council itself to engage on this and say that it will not do this before the final vote in parliament. however, i can only say ‘most likely’ because it is not up to me to say what the council should do. i can explain the commission’s position but i cannot speak for the council. so that is where we are at the moment. the discussions are going well in the trialogue. in the coming days we will have fresh discussions and i really believe that we can come to a solution that is acceptable to everyone.
the rapporteur. - madam president, thank you for your kind words. commissioner de gucht, as we have heard here, the european parliament is making its position clear. we are, as one of our colleagues has said, facing a historic moment which will set a precedent; it is a historic report which will set a precedent for future agreements. this parliament is interested and will do everything possible to secure an agreement at first reading. it is a key moment - as some of my colleagues have said - for european industry and european industry needs new incentives and new markets which this agreement will certainly bring. but it is also a delicate time for employment, and we have to guarantee employment in europe and we have to ensure that this agreement does not harm european industry, and for that we need a strong safeguard clause like the one that has been approved by the committee on international trade, a clause that will probably be ratified and strengthened tomorrow by the votes of this parliament. the time has therefore come for the council and the commission to act. the commission must continue to support us and we appeal to the responsibility of both institutions. i would like to stress that we will try to reach an agreement at first reading, but we must move the needle. i think it's possible and we're waiting for proposals.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months the increase in food prices, the functioning of the agri-food chain, price transparency, bargaining power and the impact on farm incomes have been at the heart of political news. that is why the report which mr bové is presenting today - and i would like to thank him personally, as well as all the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development of the parliament and the other committees who have taken part in the drafting and preparation of this report - presents the main challenges which lie ahead of us, and as mr bové said, these are issues which are not only at the heart of the current situation but also on the agenda for decisions to be taken in the immediate and medium term, particularly in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy which we are preparing. i share most of the concerns expressed in this report. i think that the functioning of the agri-food chain really needs to be improved. all the actors involved have everything to gain: consumers, the retail trade, the processing sector and in particular - as mr bové said - farmers, who are probably the ones who have the most difficulty in obtaining a fair share of the revenue in the distribution of income within the chain. the commission has recently taken a number of initiatives in this respect. i want to recall a few of them. first, the high level group on the competitiveness of the agri-food industry made a number of strategic recommendations. mr bové takes up analyses and enriches some of these proposals in the report he is presenting to us. these proposals will be complemented by a high-level forum, recently launched by commissioner tajani, which will address issues such as contractual relations, logistics and competitiveness. as far as price transparency is concerned, it is indeed considered to be essential to the proper functioning of the sector and it is an area where there is work to be done. the food price monitoring instrument has been set up, as you know, in the framework of eurostat, but it needs to be refined. it will be refined so that the information obtained can actually be useful to the actors in the agri-food chain, to farmers and consumers and to all other actors as well. the commission recently published a report on market surveillance in trade and distribution, which recognises that 'structural inefficiencies' in the food supply chain could contribute to 'asymmetric transmission and price rigidity and unfair contractual terms for primary producers'. other i would remind you that interested parties are invited to submit comments on this report by 10 september this year. this report falls within the competence of the european commission's directorate-general for the internal market and, on the basis of this report, we will no doubt have new information to consider measures to correct this asymmetrical transmission of prices which causes structural inefficiencies in the chain. the commission is also preparing legislative proposals to improve the quality of agricultural and agri-food products. we have already had occasion to speak on this subject, including in this house. the commission will present the legislative package on this issue by the end of the year and we will present proposals, among other things, to support local and regional initiatives for the marketing of food products, to give producers, especially small producers, agricultural producers targeting direct sales markets, short-distance markets, the opportunity to better identify their products on the markets and thus also to help consumers to make better choices when they buy. in the context of the proposals for the common agricultural policy after 2013, i will also ensure that instruments for the promotion of agricultural products can be improved. i think that this is an area in which, precisely in the new context, the european commission can do more to help producers, the agri-food chain, to promote products better on the european market and on the world market. i would also like to point out that the high level group on milk has presented its report. following this report, the commission will present a legislative package for the dairy sector by the end of the year - i remind you - which will address, among other things, issues related to the negotiating powers of producers and their possibilities to organise themselves to better negotiate their contracts, and to contractual relations in the sector. i also intend to address the question of the role of inter-branch organisations in the proper functioning of the chain, particularly in the dairy sector. on derivatives and commodities and the speculation issue, the european commission - and here i am working very closely and in agreement with my colleague commissioner barnier - is putting the finishing touches to a general legislative proposal. other proposals will follow in the context of the review of the directive on the market in financial instruments. we also need to go further in analysing the distribution of value added across the agri-food chain; this is a point to which i attach particular importance. as i said, the asymmetry of bargaining power between producers and the rest of the agri-food chain has kept a strong pressure on the margins of producers in the agricultural sector. so i think that there are things to be done here too, and an issue to be addressed as part of the reform of the cap. i would also like to stress in this connection that the competitiveness of the agri-food chain in the european union cannot be ensured at the expense of certain components and i think that the actors in the agri-food chain must be aware that too much pressure on raw material producers, on farmers, risks harming the whole chain, its economic power and its representativeness in the european industrial sector. i thank you again for the report presented by the european parliament. this is a very useful contribution to our common objective of improving the functioning of the agri-food chain. i shall be very attentive to the debate and vote on this report.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with commissioner cioloş that this report is very necessary and comes at a good time, because it has shown the abuses that the large distributors have committed, severely disrupting the different links in the food chain. the bové report, which at some point may go too far in trying to be too interventionist, must be seen from the point of view of the social market economy - as we advocate in the european people's party - which provides answers to the just demands of european producers. it also brings transparency to the different parts of the food chain - which is always a good thing - it gives the weakest parts of that chain much more scope to defend themselves and it certainly helps european consumers to know more about that chain. the european food industry could perhaps have been given more consideration in this report, and that would have been very good, but measures to curb price volatility are also included in this report, and that was very necessary. the report also includes measures to give fairness to those links in the chain, as called for in the environment committee, and also calls for the fight against abusive and unfair practices in the large distribution sector. it is high time that a list of abusive practices was drawn up and that european legislation strictly prohibited them. it is also important that measures be taken to avoid difficult practices through white labels which are contrary to competition and the intellectual property act. we must therefore support the bové report and all the colleagues who have shown themselves to be working hard in the various parliamentary committees (inco, envi and agri) to ensure that this report finally comes to light and helps european producers to get ahead.
mr president, commissioner, the problems of the food chain have been the focus of public attention in recent years. as we have already done with the batzeli report, we call on the commission to ensure that the value added along the food chain is shared fairly and sustainably. this is possible through a proportionate balance of power between the parties concerned, which does not exist or simply fails, to the detriment of the incomes of primary producers. the situation varies from sector to sector: in some cases it is processing, in others it is large-scale distribution; but in all cases the producer is the one who suffers the most because he has no say in the negotiations. the bové report identifies issues on which we must continue to work, as this is a problem which requires joint action on all fronts, including the right to competition. the agricultural producers' cooperatives and organisations need to be extended and strengthened, and the integration of the various links in the food chain needs to be extended, both at european and national level, through inter-branch organisations. i would like to express my support for the report and for the commitments reached in the vote in the committee on agriculture, which must be respected in this parliament.
madam president, adultery, homosexuality and peaceful participation in demonstrations are three crimes for which three people have been sentenced to terrible penalties in iran. crimes which should not be considered as such in iran - certainly not in europe - because iran is bound by international human rights instruments which state that these are not crimes punishable by death, especially not when they are committed by minors. we, the socialists, therefore deplore in the first place the criminalization of such exercises of individual freedom and we urgently call for the non-execution of sakine ashtiani and ebrahim hamidi and for a full review of their cases. we call for the banning of the stoning penalty and for iran to ratify the un-sponsored moratorium on the death penalty, and for the establishment of a un mission to monitor the human rights situation in iran, and we call on the council to extend the travel ban and asset freeze to individuals and organisations that repress human rights and fundamental freedoms in iran, rather than condemning them. we european socialists deplore the systematic repression of human rights activists and defenders in iran and call on the council and the commission to present additional measures to protect human rights defenders.
madam president, the condemnation of sakineh mohammadi ashtiani by the iranian regime is one of the many human rights violations which must be denounced by this parliament. as her son has announced, she can be executed after the end of ramadan, which is coming to an end. we therefore have little time and our reaction must be so intense and forceful that it must provoke the reaction of the iranian authorities to desist from carrying out the sentence. this week we will demonstrate in front of parliament demanding his release. we ask all members to join us in this attempt to prevent a barbaric act in the 21st century - it is our duty as members, as citizens and above all as individuals - and i ask mrs ashton, the council and the commissioner for human rights to be more politically forceful in denouncing the violation of human rights and in demanding compliance with international conventions and conventions, and to take all political measures to increase pressure and make iran comply with human rights.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would first of all like to thank parliament on behalf of the commission for this debate, for the clear support which has been given here to respect for human rights. i can assure you on behalf of the commission that everything possible will be done to bring the iranian authorities to the negotiating table and to clarify these issues in diplomatic discussions. i can also assure you, on behalf of catherine ashton, that we are not just making public statements and in this connection i would like to inform you that a new meeting between the local representation of the presidency of the european union in iran and the iranian government took place on 29 august. the commission and the high representative will continue to work towards achieving results.
madam president, article 3 of the treaty of lisbon entrusts the european union with the task of promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion and solidarity between the member states. this cohesion, especially territorial, is therefore a major objective of the union in order to ensure harmonious development and to eliminate regional disparities in some way. this treaty of lisbon also mentions support for island regions. i am speaking because the spanish government has announced a cut in the subsidy for resident discounts on flights to the balearic islands, the canary islands and ceuta and melilla, that is to say, it intends to cut the resident discounts. they think that the airplane is the indispensable means of transport in these territories, it is not optional, but they depend on this transport because it is their only way of being able to contact the outside world, and therefore the maintenance of the discounts would guarantee these territories equal opportunities and their possible competitiveness. i ask the european parliament to support this territorial cohesion and i hope that it will persuade the spanish government not to abolish these rebates.
madam president, i would like to condemn the beating of pro-sahara activists by moroccan police in el aaiún on 28 august. we must criticize israel, china or morocco as we do, with all justice, for violations of rights in cuba, venezuela or honduras; and, once again, we have not done so and our credibility in the world and in europe is at stake. and speaking of fundamental rights, neither as a european nor as a basque can i avoid the fact that eta announced a ceasefire yesterday, but it has not taken the step we expected. we want the cessation of their activities to be final and verifiable by independent third parties. we want to hear him renounce violence forever and acknowledge the damage done. the future of the basque country is in the hands of basque society and its democratically elected representatives. i ask you to demand these minimum requirements from eta in this parliament and i will work on the corresponding initiatives to that end.
madam president, as you may know, last week we finished the negotiations on the financial supervisory package that will be voted on at the next plenary session. i am glad to tell you that we defended to the end the proposal that the president of the european central bank automatically become president of the european systemic risk board for the first five years. in my opinion this reform is very important. it means that the european central bank will be much more implicated in the financial supervision of the european financial markets and institutions. it also means that mr trichet, at his periodic hearings in this parliament, will have to answer questions relating also to financial supervision, and not only to price stability. as a liberal, i believe more in reform than in revolution. thanks to this reform, doing business as usual will be more difficult for the financial institutions that have generated this crisis.
madam president, right now in chile there are 33 miners underground waiting to be rescued. they have our full solidarity, as do the miners who are demanding the rescue of the european coal industry in the pits and streets of asturias, el bierzo, aragon and palencia, and they have the full support of the european socialists. the european commission is in the process of rescuing the country and, when the european commission decides on the viability of the spanish royal decree and the european coal aid regulation, it will be deciding on the livelihood of 40 000 families in spain, whether or not to encourage investment in clean coal extraction and combustion technologies and, therefore, deciding on the future of many of europe's leading regions - including asturias, my own - and on the survival of our only indigenous source of energy. the commission must be aware of the social, economic and strategic significance of a decision which is unfavourable to coal, the mining industry and its workers.
madam president, europe needs to turn good intentions into deeds, mr barroso, and it is also a fact to recognize the leadership that is due to the permanent presidency of the union, because its holder has played a decisive role in the agreement on financial supervision, and that is the way for the states to agree on strategies in economy and foreign policy, which are only effective with a common position; otherwise, we will continue to lose positions and international visibility both in the field of peace and security and in economic and social matters. this is how integration is done from above, but it must also be done from below, by truly believing in the europe of the regions, by applying the subsidiarity protocol established in the lisbon treaty - which has proved in the last nine months that it does not work, as is clear from the commission's own data - and by drawing on the experience and knowledge of the regions in the field of innovation and competitiveness, because europe would be better off in this way. how can we be more innovative if, according to your data, most countries are going to cut their budgets for innovation? you make little reference to citizens: we must be useful to them and we must really count on them if we are to bring the union project closer to european citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the south korean industry is not affected by the trade war. all the political groups unanimously decided last week that the time had come for parliament's plenary to take a decision on the amendments adopted by 27 votes in favour and one abstention in the committee on international trade last june, amendments which are of vital importance for the applicability and effectiveness of the safeguard clause. as you know, we shall vote on the amendments only and, in accordance with rule 57, we shall postpone the vote on the legislative report until the second part-session in october. at the same time we decided unanimously not to close the door on a possible agreement at first reading, which we firmly believe will be possible. but to do so, it is vital to send a clear signal of unity and strength from all political groups. and that is why it is important that the european parliament as a whole should strongly support the whole package of amendments.
in writing. − this was a fairly technical, but uncontroversial report. this is why we greens supported it.
in writing. − green policy so far with regard to mfa is to check whether there are actual political reasons why mfa should not be granted. since there are no particular problems currently with regard to the republic of moldova, there is no reason to withhold the mfa. greens therefore voted in favour in committee, and have done the same today in plenary. greens however continue to stress that we expect the commission to finally set out a framework for its mfa policy.
in writing. − the regional authorities in madeira and the azores requested the temporary suspension of common customs tariff duties in order to strengthen the competitive position of local economic operators and stabilise employment in these outermost regions of the union. the effects of this proposed suspension will be limited to the regions concerned and will assist local smes and farmers to invest and to generate jobs in these outermost regions. in the initial report, the committee on regional affairs supported the proposal. amendments were tabled (simplified procedure – rule 46(2) of the rules of procedure) and adopted which suggested: the inclusion of products additional to the initial proposal (new cn code added) and a new start date for entry into force of the regulation (1 february 2010 instead of 1 january 2010) and for it to apply until 31 december 2019. in today’s vote we greens voted in favour as we support re-consultation and inclusion of the duty to inform the european parliament.
in writing. − this topic was added to the agenda for the september i part-session at the last minute. last week the juri committee decided to waive uspaskich’s immunity. our group was in favour of the juri decision as it is a case related to false accounting in relation to financing of a political group and not related to opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. we expressed this view today in plenary by voting in favour of the report.
in writing. − the lechner report is a non-controversial initiative report that we found easy to support.
in writing. − i celebrate the fact that the european parliament has today adopted a report on the job potential of the sustainable economy led by my german green colleague, elisabeth schroedter. as she said after the vote, the greens have long advocated that europe commit to a true green new deal, speeding up the transition to the green economy as the only viable response to the current economic crisis. it is therefore very welcome that a large majority of meps from different political groups have supported this report, which highlights the huge potential for creating new green jobs and transforming existing jobs into green jobs across europe and which sets out recommendations to this end.
in writing. − we, the greens, have supported this report, which includes a series of remarks on the obstacles to the implementation of the internal market rules by switzerland and eea states. in particular it formulates the following ideas: following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european commission should provide the national parliaments of all eea efta states with legislative proposals which are sent to eu national parliaments for consultation; eea efta states should allocate adequate resources for the implementation of the services directive, in particular for setting up national single points of contact; and eea efta states should increase their involvement in the discussions on the consumers' rights directive, among other proposals.
in writing. − the greens did not table amendments to the draft report since we depart from the proposal that we will vote against the korea fta as such in the upcoming assent procedure for the reason that we object to a situation in which the eu industrial landscape is being determined arbitrarily by a single fta. moreover, we object to the eu negotiated carve-out in the fta permitting the export to korea of big gas guzzlers not meeting korea’s more stringent co2-emissions limits and timelines. additionally, we perceive the eu 2020 strategy to be an attempt to spur an eu-wide industrial policy, which should be accompanied by a temporary moratorium on pending ftas potentially conflicting with the setting of such policy. however, we support in this situation the formulation of stringent safeguards, and this particular safeguard will become the blueprint for other ftas. we also supported the rapporteur in resisting a situation in which the korea safeguard is designed solely in the interests of the automotive industry, and in ensuring consideration of the entire range of trade relations and possible needs for trade defence mechanisms.
in writing. − i salute the adoption of the bové report which, although it welcomes the commission's proposals to encourage the creation of agricultural producer organisations, also says that the committee neverthless stresses that a revision of competition laws should reflect the different levels of competitiveness in relation to the markets and supply chains. the size of independent local retailers, markets, local food chains and semi-subsistence food supply systems should therefore be taken into account. european competition rules should improve producers' organisations' bargaining power so as to allow them to achieve a fair price for their production.
in writing. − the debate on this issue was not at all easy. over the last few months questions have been raised on: the ‘reactiveness’ of the fund (without more focus at the same time on remedying the causes by improving general strategies for innovation and education in a globalised world, better targeting and use of esf in and by member states); the limited number of sectors aided (especially at that time), in particular the automotive and textile sectors (respectively 15 and 13 applications), where questions could be raised as to, for example, whether the redundancies are a result of ‘globalisation’ or lack of innovation of the sector; whether / to what extent the measures take/took the place of national aid; the paradox that on the one hand (only) eur 500 million is made available for the fund each year (from unspent commitments in the eu budget), whereas in principle unlimited applications could be made if the application criteria are fulfilled (first served); the fact that it is more difficult for smes to profit from such a fund; the link with state aid/taxes. finally, a consensus position was adopted, however, and the report was passed, including by us as greens.
in writing. − on mr zwiefka’s report on the implementation and review of ‘brussels i’, the pse group tabled an alternative resolution that we greens decided not to support, because the report is an implementation report which has been extensively discussed among all shadows within the juri committee. the alternative motion for resolution highlights fair points which, nevertheless, are not of direct relevance to this report. this is why we simply voted today in favour of the resolution as adopted in the juri committee.
in writing. − i am very happy with the adoption of this report, which specifically calls for: the member states to respect the fundamental rights of ethnic minorities and immigrant women, whether or not their status is regular (p. 11); the member states to ensure access to support services aimed at preventing gender-based violence and protecting women from such violence, regardless of their legal status (p. 17); the fundamental rights agency to include a transversal gender equality and women’s rights perspective in all aspects, including those on ethnic discrimination and on the fundamental rights of roma (p. 22); the european institute for gender equality to collect data disaggregated by gender and ethnicity; national equality bodies to develop tools and training in relation to multiple discrimination; and, finally, a targeted approach to avoid multiple discrimination, stereotyping, stigmatisation and ethnic segregation.
in writing. − i salute the adoption of this report, which includes specific green proposals such as: measures to take into account the gender dimension when reforming pension systems; measures to promote a more equal division of unpaid care between women and men; paying more attention to diseases particularly affecting older women, such as rheumatoid arthritis, and mainstreaming the perspective of older migrants and lgbt people, among many other aspects.
in writing. − the majority of amendments tabled by the greens/efa were adopted in the committee on culture and education, where the report was adopted with 24 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. most of the greens/efa amendments were included in the compromise amendments. this was the case in paragraph 33 which states that the eu institutions should decentralise eu communication policy in order to give it a local and regional dimension, and in paragraph 36 which stresses that solutions should be examined in order to create interparliamentary relationship between national or regional parliaments and the european parliament. today, we had to vote on an alternative resolution proposed by s&d and supported by epp and alde. the greens/efa supported the modifications that have been made, so in the end we supported the report.
in writing. − this was a technical and non-controversial report and we, the greens, have supported it.
mr president, this morning's debate on the state of the union has brought to light the growing distance between the european institutions and the citizens, and that is a political problem, and it is also a european problem. it is therefore a demonstration that europe is not built on an internal market and a single currency, but on citizenship, fundamental rights and an area of freedom, security and justice. this means that the lack of social integration of a minority, objectively excluded, is not a problem of the country that suffers from it, nor is it a problem of those countries that show a high level of integration of the roma population, as is the case in spain. it is a european problem and therefore, irrespective of the legal response - which depends first of all on the commission and ultimately on the courts of justice - there is a political procedure which depends on this parliament, which must say very clearly, firstly, that a collective expulsion on an ethnic basis is against the required european construction of citizenship; secondly, that populist gestures which seek to overcome the problems of the governments of the member states in the face of the polls by looking for scapegoats are against the european union, against the required european construction of citizenship; and, finally, that every time there is a gesture of contempt which sends the message that there are governments who do not care what the european institutions say and give them the polls, they will find themselves right in the face of this parliament, the commission and the european institutions as a whole.
madam president, madam commissioner, the general perception in world public opinion and also amongst ourselves is that the reaction of the international community to the humanitarian disaster in pakistan has been a slow and weak reaction. we have arrived later and with less intensity than in other humanitarian disasters of comparable dimensions. there has also been some resistance to meeting the needs that the united nations has set. some colleagues have referred to the resistance that may exist in our societies because of the type of political regime or because of the problems that may exist in pakistan. but i think we have to make an effort as parliamentarians and in our societies to explain that we help people, we help beings who are in difficulty, and not one or another political regime. that humanitarian action is based on neutrality, on impartiality, on independence, and that these are the values that guide our activity.
madam president, europe needs a strategy that will enable it to emerge stronger from the economic and financial crisis and to face the long-term challenges it faces, such as the ageing of the population. in the strategy for the next decade, the europe 2020 strategy, employment policy has a very important role to play. the objectives of the european union must be sustainable growth, job creation and the pursuit of greater social cohesion, with the fight against poverty being a new priority for the union to which my group is committed. the strategy highlights the need to undertake structural reforms to improve the functioning of labour markets, competitiveness and productivity. and it would not be consistent if we only thought about future job creation and allowed existing jobs to be destroyed, as is the case in certain sectors, such as coal, where a large number of jobs could be lost throughout europe. mining must be maintained as a strategic reserve and as a complement to renewable energy. i would like to speak about my country, spain, and my region, aragon, for one of whose provinces, teruel - a province with a population density of about 12 inhabitants per square metre - the loss of some 5 000 jobs would mean the desertification of an entire territory. we must therefore concentrate on consolidating and maintaining the jobs we have at present and on carrying out the reforms which this report contains.
madam president, this debate is very important to the socialist group because it is very important to give hope to the millions of europeans who have lost their jobs, to the millions who fear losing their jobs and to the millions of europeans who hope to work but who have not yet found a place in our labour market. it is important that we place employment at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy and we are saying in a way that it is not enough to fix economic imbalances, but that we must incorporate a social dimension into our strategy because the soulless economy alone will not provide the answer to economic problems. and it's important that we set goals because, while it's true that having goals may not get us there, if we don't know where we're going, we'll never get there. so thank you to mr őry for having built a majority around these criteria, thank you to commissioner andor and the spanish and belgian presidencies for having allowed parliament to be heard, as stated in article 148 of the treaty, because this is very good not only for parliament as a body, but also because it involves european citizens, tomorrow the national parliaments, in the common cause of all. and now we need them to listen to us, not just listen to us, but to put our recommendations into practice, all of them in whatever way, but to incorporate for the first time in history this effort by the european parliament, which will be very positive for the commission, for the council, for parliament and, above all, for the european citizens.
mr president, if the commissioner's answer is that we are going to be the vanguard that the world expects, that we are not going to give up, and that we are going to call on others without waiting for them to call on us and to be in the front, then that is fine. if, moreover, the commissioner can get a single position, which is what we have, to have one voice and not twenty-seven as happened in copenhagen, that too is perfect. i would like to add my voice to mr florenz's request for clarification, because i too have the same doubt.
madam president, it is true that this is a global debate and it would be an exaggeration to say that there is no freedom of expression in the european union, but it is equally true that there are cases of curtailment of the right to information and the right to freedom of expression which we must denounce. i am in favour of and agree with those who say that we must focus on states that violate freedom of expression and of the press. and if we have to talk about italy, hungary and bulgaria, we have to talk, but if we have to talk about the bloody case of romania, we have to do so as well and, perhaps, we can say that there is no judicial evidence, but there is enough information to have to act in the face of such bloody cases, because this is not a court, it is a political parliament. i would also like to point to democratic countries with public television stations which have managed to attract the largest number of viewers because of their pluralism, such as spain, but which coexist with public television stations in autonomous communities such as madrid and valencia, which together have more territory and more population than some eu member states, which have been usurped by the respective regional governments and are subject to significant manipulation, denounced by associations, parties and trade unions, which have suffered blackouts and disconnections by works councils because of the anxiety they suffer from mobbing, which have been able, like canal nou, to censor spain's biggest corruption scandal, the gürtel case, because it affects the government that runs it, when all public television stations opened with the news on the first day, and which regularly violate the rights of journalists and viewers. and that happens in the european union - in the valencian community and in the community of madrid - and it happens in telemadrid and in canal nou. so there are two television stations - and i promise to bring you proof - which are outside the treaty of lisbon, which escape the charter of fundamental rights of the union, because they constantly violate article 11, and i ask you to take this into account. i am speaking out against this and i am asking the commissioner and the commission to ask for information, because in a democratic state and a democratic union such bad examples cannot be sustained.
madam president, i would like to express my regret and make a strong statement against the attack on the newspaper egunkaria in the basque country. in 2003, in a radical violation of the laws and the spanish constitution itself, harassing a linguistic and cultural minority, trying to mix the basque language with terrorism which we basques and basques reject in the majority, a newspaper was illegally closed. professionals and readers were deprived of their most basic rights. seven years later, a court ruling recognizes this. during that time and after the judgment, the commission and europe have only kept silent. such behaviour facilitates the repetition of arbitrariness. that is why your action, madam commissioner, must be more active and courageous if europe is to be credible in its role as guardian of the treaties. the treaty and laws are being systematically violated, as we have seen in europe today. so i'm asking you to be more active in your acting.
madam president, can you explain to me how a couple made up of a man and a woman is harmed by the fact that a couple made up of two men or two women have the same rights? how does it hurt the heterosexual couple that same-sex couples have rights? where's the threat? where's the danger?
madam president, i am fortunate to come from a country which has made great strides in recent years on the issue of gay rights. and it's a country, the spanish state, that was also thought to have to go slowly, that there was a society that was not yet ready to take that leap and yet we did, and nothing has happened. nothing has happened: in fact, there is a much higher level of happiness because people have lost their fear. guaranteeing the right of same-sex couples to marry and have a project in common does not force you, if you do not want to, to do so. that i can marry a man does not oblige you to do so, but it gives me the right to be able to do so. and this is what gives us all the freedom to be able to be clearly a european union that guarantees these principles and these rights. but i am fortunate, as are other colleagues, and yet there are countries in the european union where this is not possible, and this cannot be accepted in the present european union. and this is where we make the request to the european commission, because the leadership shown in spain at the time is what we hope to see, and we ask you to also make this project, which we do not find in the stockholm programme action plan, work in the european union today. we are asking for a concrete project, for guarantees that these discriminations that we have been seeing and mentioning will never happen again. and this is possible, simply, as was demonstrated in spain, if there is political will. if he has it, we'll be on his side; if not, we'll be in front of him. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
because we are and want to be european citizens. we must be able to move freely within the european union with the same rights, because that is what the treaties say. and that's the basic principle, and the second element is also very simple: what we're saying is that there's no need to be afraid, because societies that are historically based on couples of one man and one woman don't fall apart. it's all right, the world goes on and the more the happier.
madam president, i congratulate the presidency on the unanimous approval by the council of the commitment reached with parliament and the commission on the monitoring package. we have been working with the spanish and belgian presidencies and have succeeded in culminating our work with an ambitious commitment which lays the 'solid' foundations for financial reform and is a milestone in community integration. it is also good to have approved the introduction of the european semester from next year, but economic coordination is much more than organizing a timetable of operations: it requires substantial content and a parliamentary dimension. further progress on economic governance reform is urgently needed to mobilise the under-utilized capacity for economic growth and to build the economic and social union we need. we also need a european system for crisis prevention, management and resolution that is coherent, robust and credible. it must be compatible with economic recovery, prevent moral hazard, take account of the remaining burdens of financial reform and avoid distortions in the internal market. we need to coordinate internally to be able to move it to the g-20. the commission's communication on the financial transaction tax - and lastly - is still pending, and it may also include a financial activity tax. what is at stake is combating volatility, fairly sharing the tax burden, mitigating the impact of the crisis on public finances, creating new resources for the european union and contributing to the millennium development goals. if we want to be a global player, we cannot act in a dispersed order.
in writing. - as coordinator of my s&d group in the itre committee, i would like to express my satisfaction at the approval by parliament of the agreement reached during the spanish presidency of the council on the updating of this important directive regulating the treatment to be given to animals which must necessarily be used for scientific purposes for the advancement of science in various fields of knowledge. this is a balanced agreement, the result of a broad negotiation process between the inescapable needs of the scientific world for the advancement of knowledge - especially in areas such as the health sciences, to which our committee is very sensitive - and the necessary protection to be afforded to animals. i must say that both aspects are strengthened by this reform which we have adopted. it is important to note that the agreement reached also includes a commitment to work towards finding and promoting other alternative lines and methodologies in research, which will allow the full replacement of the use of live animals in laboratories in the future, without thereby prejudicing the necessary progress of science.
in writing. − while the revised legislation will introduce some improvements to current eu rules on animal testing, it simply does not go far enough and, in some cases, weakens the current laws. serious concerns highlighted throughout by the greens/efa group have been ignored and we regret that meps today failed to support our attempts to redress these concerns. crucially, the new laws will fail to ensure that alternatives to animal testing are used whenever possible. this will mean animals will suffer needlessly in scientific tests even though alternatives exist. worryingly, the new laws would also prevent member states from adopting more ambitious rules on animal testing at national level. the greens/efa group wanted to ensure national governments maintained this right. we also seriously regret that stricter rules on the use of non-human primates were not adopted.
in writing. − the report adopted today is a landmark for the eu’s employment guidelines. meps have voted to include a proper social component to the guidelines for the first time, including measures to deal with poverty and the working poor, as well as to address youth unemployment and integrate marginalised and vulnerable groups into the labour market. eu governments and the belgian eu presidency must take heed of the message delivered today by the european parliament and commit to making their employment policies more socially inclusive. specifically, national governments must follow up on parliament’s demand to take measures to improve work-life balance and gender equality. huge efforts are needed in this respect in order to raise the participation of women in the labour market to 75% by 2020.
in writing. - the resolution we have just adopted makes clear our strong condemnation of the death sentence for stoning of the iranian citizen sakineh mohammadi ashtiani. regardless of the facts imputed to him, a sentence of death by stoning cannot be justified or accepted. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the text, adopted by 658 votes to 1, with 22 abstentions, also calls on the iranian government to re-examine the case of zahra bahrami, 'to allow her immediate access to a lawyer and consular assistance, to release her or to grant her due process guarantees'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the house also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. it called on the iranian parliament to adopt legislation banning the 'cruel and inhuman practice of stoning'. on the other hand, the iranian government should decree a moratorium on executions pending the abolition of the death penalty.
mr president, i was the rapporteur for this parliament for several years, during which time this house almost unanimously called for the 1998 code of conduct to be converted into a binding common position, which was adopted in 2008. but we said then that this was going to be a further but not final step, that it was necessary but not sufficient, and today's debate proves it. i would also remind you that all the countries of the european union are supporting the international arms export control treaty at the united nations, and this is the main debate. exporting weapons is not like exporting refrigerators. they have very serious consequences because they kill, destroy and impoverish societies, and the european union is contributing to this very thing when it exports arms to israel, when it exports arms to colombia, when it exports arms to afghanistan, and it is with this sense of responsibility that we must act. i think it is therefore necessary to remember that this issue we have to deal with is not just a question of the internal market and trade or security, but clearly of international responsibility, and i am afraid that is not what we are doing.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, it is not a problem for mrs de keyser to give a definite assessment, no. the fact is that in the 1994 peace treaty between israel and the kingdom of jordan, it was agreed to cooperate along the shared borders to ecologically recover the jordan river and to protect the ecological water resources. this was an agreement, one more agreement that the state of israel signed in 1994, which is not being fulfilled. this is the problem we have with israel: it does not fulfill what it signs. that is why it is very important that the initiative launched in 2008 by president chirac who called for an initiative for the jordan river basin, takes shape and that the european union supports it. we believe that it would be very important to create a jordan river basin commission as a great trilateral forum of cooperation for the recovery of this river, developing and implementing policies for water recovery and conservation, and it is true that, as the 1994 peace treaty is being violated, the palestinians have been excluded from the israeli security zone established in the west bank along the whole of the lower jordan and that the settlers are illegally occupying property that is not theirs. as the occupation is accompanied by irregular and illegal water use, it adds another problem, apart from the political problem, such as the problem of ecological sustainability. as new waste water treatment plants are already scheduled to start operating in 2011, i hope that the european union will support, promote and encourage the need to establish such a committee for the jordan river basin.
president of the council. - you know, the fact that i tell you which of the three countries is closest does not mean that the one i will point the finger at, the one that is most advanced in the exercise, will be the next member of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the free movement of workers temporary restrictions on romanian and bulgarian citizens in the labour market in the european union, by rovana plumb, iliana malinova iotova, pervenche berès, stephen hughes, alejandro cercas, gianni pittella and jutta steinruck, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o-0096/2010 b7-0455/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, to conclude, the transitional arrangements are there to help member states avoid labour market disturbances following the accession of new member states, and not simply to delay application of the free movement of workers to those nationals until the end of the transitional period. as mrs parvanova has said, the biggest asset we have is our citizens, and we must keep pushing for free movement in order to be able to attain an effective single market in the labour sector. mr kalfin also mentioned health workers as an example of the movement of workers. i must say, at this point, that we are seeing health workers being poached from the new countries by countries that are maintaining these restrictions, and this is sometimes to the detriment of the new member states. therefore i agree with mr kalfin that we should appeal to member states to lift restrictions as soon as possible. the commission will not only continue to monitor how member states apply these transitional arrangements, but will also continue to promote specific activities to combat undeclared work, in cooperation with the member states. more importantly, it will continue to encourage member states to re-examine their decisions on restricting access to the labour market for bulgarian and romanian workers in the light of the situation of their labour markets.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the commission statement on products derived from cloned animals in the food chain.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i am glad to have been offered this opportunity to set out where the commission stands on the sensitive issue of animal cloning for food production. first, i should underline that there is no evidence of any food safety concerns regarding foods obtained from cloned animals. there are, however, some animal welfare issues that require further consideration. such concerns are nevertheless likely to decrease over time, as the technique evolves and improves. there is, of course, an ethical dimension to this issue, which, i should add, lies outside the eu’s legislative remit. other considerations in the general debate on this issue are consumers’ rights to know about production processes, and the likely trade implications of taking measures in this area. the most important issue for the commission is to assess the need, feasibility and proportionality of possible measures to regulate the use of the cloning technique and of cloned animals and products. naturally, i am fully aware of parliament’s position on the use of cloning technologies for food production in europe. honourable members would like to see a ban extended to the offspring of cloned animals. the commission position is that foods from cloned animals should not be put on the market without prior authorisation, as they are considered novel foods, and indeed are currently covered by the novel food regulation. it is worth adding that, given the value of cloned animals, it is highly unlikely that they would be used directly for food purposes. the situation with regard to the offspring of cloned animals is, however, rather different. such animals cannot be distinguished from those of conventional lineage. this aspect also has to be taken into consideration in any line of action the commission may propose. turning to the current position, the commission acknowledges that the novel food regulation is not the appropriate legal framework for addressing all aspects of the cloning issue. in particular, the production and marketing of products other than food – such as ova, sperm or embryos – cannot be covered by the novel food regulation, which deals exclusively with the pre-market authorisation of food products. as honourable members will know, we are currently putting together a report which will cover all aspects of the use of cloning for food production. that report will be made available in november. it will serve as a useful basis for future discussions among the institutions. i look forward to continuing discussions with both parliament and the council with the aim of reaching a successful agreement.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, thank you also, commissioner, for the explanation you have given us on the cloning of animals for food use. we agree, both parliament and the commission, that the novel food regulation was not the framework for dealing with this issue. we agree and that is why it has been taken out of the scope of that regulation. we all know - at least that is what all the scientific committees say - that meat from cloned animals and their offspring meets all the requirements for food safety. only here i see a problem, and that is that it is impossible to distinguish whether a meat comes from a cloned animal, from a descendant of a cloned animal or from an animal that has not been cloned. therefore, labelling and traceability - which is essential - must be used to ensure that the consumer is informed. the consumer has a right to know and wants to know whether the meat he is eating, whether he knows it is healthy or not, comes from a cloned or non-cloned animal, because because of the animal welfare issues you have explained, or for ethical reasons, he may refuse to eat it. but in this situation i ask myself a question: the production and consumption of cloned animals is probably banned in europe, especially the production. we are hereby prohibiting our producers from using a technique which is a new technique, which is a good technique for the reproduction of animals and which, moreover, can generate profits because logically an animal is cloned when it has very special characteristics, as has been done in spain with the brave bulls. and we're going to ban it? are we going to make sure they can't have that technique in their hand? because then our farmers, our cattle farmers will lose competitiveness. and it would be very good if we could ban the import of meat from cloned animals and their offspring from other countries into europe. but are we going to ban it? we can't ban it. the world trade organization is not going to accept that we ban it. so we are going to have the absurd situation that our farmers are not going to be able to use a new technique that is going to enable them to be more competitive and yet we are going to be consuming, labelled or unlabelled, those foods within the european union. that is what concerns me, and i think we must find an explanation. why are we doing that? why are we going to stop our farmers from using that technique, and then bring in that food from outside because we can't stop it being imported?
member of the commission. – mr president, i am not surprised that this issue has attracted so much attention and debate and i thank all of you for expressing your views. the various points which have been raised show the need for a deep understanding of these issues so that we can take informed and proportionate decisions. as i said in my opening statement, the commission plans to adopt later this year a comprehensive report setting out the key issues which contribute to the cloning debate. i hope that this will serve to add clarity to this complex issue and will prove useful as a basis for the institutional debates and discussions that will follow. i emphasise that an improvement in the current situation can only be achieved through consensus amongst all eu institutions. this debate has been going on since january 2008, and i look forward to us making progress together on this issue, with the ultimate aim of agreeing on a practical way forward which will serve us well in the years to come.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the european potato starch sector after 2012, by esther de lange and albert deß, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats), and by thijs berman and jo leinen, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o-0097/2010 - b7-0456/2010)
member of the commission. – mr president, i am not surprised that this issue has attracted so much attention and debate and i thank all of you for expressing your views. the various points which have been raised show the need for a deep understanding of these issues so that we can take informed and proportionate decisions. as i said in my opening statement, the commission plans to adopt later this year a comprehensive report setting out the key issues which contribute to the cloning debate. i hope that this will serve to add clarity to this complex issue and will prove useful as a basis for the institutional debates and discussions that will follow. i emphasise that an improvement in the current situation can only be achieved through consensus amongst all eu institutions. this debate has been going on since january 2008, and i look forward to us making progress together on this issue, with the ultimate aim of agreeing on a practical way forward which will serve us well in the years to come.
the debate is closed.
the first item is the report by lidia joanna geringer from oedenberg, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on 'better lawmaking' - fifteenth annual report of the european commission pursuant to article 9 of the protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality (2009/2142 (ini)).
mr president, this is a subject on which we have been tirelessly and repeatedly pleading, in one way or another, year after year. i am reminded of the efforts made by monica frassoni and medina ortega in previous legislatures. but i think that what we have to take away from the report by mrs geringer - which is excellent and i congratulate her on it - is not just the letter - which is very important - and the objectives, but also the spirit in which this report is written, which must permeate all the actors in the european union. otherwise, we will fall back again and again into that repetitive and tiresome droning about what is happening and how badly some things are happening. that is why i believe that the commissioner's words today are not only voluntary but also credible. i believe you, commissioner, and i believe that there is much to be gained from this report and your efforts in reaching these 25% targets, and others that are very well written in the report, and very well inscribed in that spirit.
mr president, commissioner, we want to legislate better, but the subsidiarity protocol does not work: neither the regional parliaments nor the state parliaments have been involved. since the treaty came into force, the commission has - according to its own data - sent 26 legislative initiatives to the national parliaments of the 27 member states of the union. however, only 52 responses were received out of a possible 702 (just over 7%). of the 52 opinions received, 10 are austrian; 2 from the czech senate; 1 from the spanish congress; 1 from the french senate; 18 from the italian senate; 3 from the italian chamber of deputies; 2 from the polish senate; and 15 from the assembly of the portuguese republic. the commission also has no information on the involvement of regional parliaments in the preparation and adoption of these opinions, a possibility which is enshrined in the lisbon treaty itself.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i will try to answer as many questions as i can in the allocated time, but first i would like to thank all the members of the european parliament for their clear, strong commitment to smarter and better regulation. i think this is what the european union and our member states need. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for highlighting the importance of working with the impact assessments which are prepared for the commission. very positive precedents have been set by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and we hope that other committees will also work in such a regular and detailed manner with our impact assessments as this committee has. we will of course try to do our best to improve the quality of impact assessments further, and to supply these together with a proposal for legislation. the fact that we need to study the impact of proposed amendments is very important. i was glad that was highlighted in the report. very often, legislation is proposed and we change it with significant amendments which are often adopted in a hurried manner. it can really improve the legislation, but it can also make it much worse, and we should bear that in mind. i absolutely agree with those members who said that we need impartial assessment. this is what we are trying to do in the commission. we are working very closely with the stoiber group. we have a very strong impact assessment board which is really driving a new culture forward in terms of how the commission works internally. the language is very bland, and i can tell you that more than 30% of the proposals sent to the relevant departments are refused by the impact assessment board and sent back for further improvement with a view to increasing the quality of the legislation. as regards smes, i think we discussed two days ago how important it is to reduce the burden, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can benefit from the single market. i am very happy to report to you that this goal of reducing the administrative burden by 25% by 2012 will definitely be exceeded. i see that my time is up so i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for a very high-quality report, and all the meps for their commitment to smarter and better legislation.
mr šefčovič, as a matter of fact the commission has no time limitation, it is self-limited. maybe i should not tell you that because it is good that the commissioners believe that their time is limited so they limit themselves in their speech to a moderate use of time, but in any case that is a fact.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the application of directive 2008/6/ec in relation to the completion of the internal market for postal services, by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-0114/2010 - b7-0458/2010).
we now come to the time allotted for the procedure for the incidental request for the use of the floor.
mr president, commissioner, in countries at the forefront of liberalization such as finland, the united kingdom and germany, there have been successive deficits and bankruptcies of operators and massive job losses without a clear social alternative. the third postal directive was adopted with three essential conditions: the guarantee of universal postal service as an obligation to provide postal services throughout the territory at the same price and at least five days a week, as a guarantee of social and territorial cohesion; secondly, the assessment and monitoring of the social impact and the quality of jobs, since competition cannot be based on social dumping, and we therefore urge mr barnier to show us that the effects of the directive are what the european parliament demanded; and finally, the rights of users, which are not the basic ones, but those we promised them in the new period: information on access points, on the capacity of new postal services, the rights of complaint... (the president withdrew the speaker. )
i am surprised that the author of the question does not have a specific time limit to react to the question under the rules of procedure and has to resort to the 'catch the eye' procedure. so, mr simpson, in my interpretation of the management of the presidency, i will give you two minutes to respond to all the speeches that have been made.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important debate and i thank you, mr simpson, for having called it. i want to recall two or three things before going a little further in my answers. firstly, as i said earlier and as everyone, objectively, must recognize, this reform, this controlled opening of postal services, was not done in secret, or in haste, or by chance, but with regular democratic validations and the support of all governments. many of you have played a very important part in this: mr simpson you are one of those, mr markus ferber is another, and i could name many more. we're here now. it's a gradual process. there have been - as my services reminded me - some 20 sectoral studies. mr. de jong, there was no rush or secrecy. mr. tarabella, there was no forward leak either. things are done gradually and in stages. that's the first point. secondly, i know what is in the treaties and in the texts. mrs auconie recalled a very important word: i fought as one of the drafters of the old constitution and the new lisbon treaty - i was european commissioner at the time, in charge of institutional reforms - to put the words 'territorial cohesion' in the treaty. and it wasn't easy. they're words that mean something. as in the lisbon treaty, there are new words on the security or protection of public service missions. these are words which i attach importance to, beyond and in addition to my personal convictions, and i would like to summarize them in one sentence: i do not believe that europe is simply a large free trade area. europe is not just the big market. it is a common space of economic, social and human life. and i returned to the european commission with this conviction. it will remain attached to my action throughout the five years during which i shall have the honour of being in this position. that's what's in the treaty. i have not forgotten it and i will remind anyone who has forgotten it, if necessary. and then there are the texts of these directives, ladies and gentlemen. i do not think, frankly - and i say this to mrs wils and others - that a moratorium or a brutal blockage of this development would be helpful. this would, in my view, create damaging insecurity for businesses and for users and overall it would be irresponsible. but having said that, having confirmed that the process will take place, we have a duty to check that it is carried out correctly and in accordance with what is written in the texts of the directives and in the treaty on european union. mr bach and mrs auconie spoke of the universal postal service; there are important words in the texts that should strengthen universal service provision. there are many mechanisms that provide this benefit and we must check that they are used; this is the case for the compensation fund, designations under public procurement and other instruments. those are words i don't forget either. the inclusion of working conditions is also included as an essential requirement to be taken into account in the authorization or approval of postal operators. as regards social protection - mr de jong, mrs durant and mrs serracchiani have raised this issue - it is clearly stated in the third postal directive that the member states have instruments in their labour legislation to counter any social dumping and it is up to the member states themselves, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, to find the right approach to ensure this correct level of employment and social protection. i could give you many examples of phrases and words which are so much in demand from the member states, from companies and from the commission, under the control of your parliament and the council. i would also like to say a few words on a subject which concerns me, because i have been elected for 20 years from a rural and even very mountainous area, where we know the importance of public services for the most isolated or the most vulnerable people. mr gallagher has raised this issue, as have mr fernandes, mrs auconie and mrs harkin earlier. as regards rural areas, i would like to point out that if the member states do not comply with certain minimum requirements, the commission will use all the instruments at its disposal to ensure that the member states provide these basic postal services, particularly in rural areas under this territorial cohesion. i see that we must move forward, not run forwards, but make sure that what is stated in the texts, in the treaty, is respected. that is why, mr president, the stages of evaluation, study, reporting and, where appropriate, corrections must be used well. mr el khadraoui, mrs ticău and mrs wils referred to the first studies. i confirm that we will be conducting a first study this year - mr el khadraoui, at the end of this year - which will provide all stakeholders with an analysis of the latest developments in the postal markets and will also cover the most recent trends in employment. we will not stop there: there is the formal report we have to present to parliament and the council in 2013, when the whole directive will have been put in place by all the member states. and then there is this user dialogue group, in which you will participate, as will the trade unions, as will the companies and as will the users themselves, who will hear the group of regulators and who will review the evaluation studies provided by the commission. ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion - and i say this to mrs thun und hohenstein, mrs durant and others - i attach as much importance as you do to the fact that these directives are implemented correctly, without penalising citizens and users. i will attach as much importance as you do to the objectivity, the accuracy, the honesty of the evaluation studies. and since i am speaking of sincerity, i quote mr simpson: 'we must be fair to europe'. that is why these studies and the publicity we will give them, the debates we will create around these studies - especially in this user dialogue group - are important. i will be very keen to see that we are fair to the european union and the decisions we have taken together. when we talk about jobs in the postal services, when we talk about the quality of distribution, when we talk about territorial cohesion, when we talk about social protection, what is the result of european decisions? what is the reason for the decisions of the companies? what is the result of the political decisions of governments? we must say who is responsible for what and not make the european union responsible for everything that happens on the ground. that is why i want to finish this debate and evaluation. and that is why, mrs durant, ladies and gentlemen, i will personally chair the setting up of the user dialogue group, to demonstrate the sincerity and the willingness of the commission in this area which is at the heart of this great market, as a common economic and social area, which i love and for which i am one of the responsible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in ten minutes. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − i have strongly supported this report, which stresses the vital importance of making simple, clear laws that eu citizens can understand and emphasises that european institutions must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality when formulating proposals. the report emphasises the commission’s key role, as the institution with the power of legislative initiative, in drafting high-quality legislative proposals. parliament undertakes to make every effort to examine such proposals promptly, in accordance with the appropriate legislative procedure. it also emphasises the importance of cooperating with member states to ensure that legislation is correctly implemented.
in writing. - i voted against this joint resolution tabled by the left, the centre left and the liberals in the house because it is necessary to demand that the french government of president sarkozy immediately halt the expulsion of the roma population. we ask the commission and the council to take action along the same lines. we condemn the deportations not only of french citizens but also of germans, austrians, swedes, belgians and italians. a european strategy is needed to combat the poverty and discrimination suffered by roma people in europe. the roma have been part of the european union since the 2004 and 2007 enlargements; for this reason, they have the right, like any european citizen, to move and reside freely throughout the eu.
in writing. - the greens/efa group welcomes the vote of the european parliament, which has fully played its role as guarantor of the eu's fundamental values. the european parliament, while refusing to cover up the situation in france, does not fail to criticise the commission's late and limited response. these expulsions are a crucial test for europe's ability to respect its own standards as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. it is the commission's responsibility to take appropriate action, starting with the completion of its analysis report as soon as possible and clearly identifying the governments responsible. today's vote opens a crucial stage for the credibility of our institution. but the battle for respect for minority rights is far from over. today more than ever it is necessary to recognise all the rights of minorities in the eu and to make those rights effective.
in writing. - demographic developments in recent years, especially the ageing of the population, have led to increased budgetary pressures and a high demand for better health and social care infrastructure. i voted in favour of the resolution on long-term care for the elderly, which encourages the member states to combat social exclusion of these people and all forms of discrimination on grounds of age, because it is necessary for the states to guarantee access to adequate health and care services, as a fundamental principle of the european model of solidarity. it is important to recognise the importance of quality and continuity of care and therefore member states should introduce programmes for the provision of home care and assistance to older people, or continue them in those countries where such arrangements already exist, under the administration of municipal and local authorities, in their respective areas of competence. guarantees should be established in all member states to protect the fundamental rights of persons receiving long-term care.
in writing. − i am very happy with the adoption of this resolution, which basically: calls on member states to consider the demographic developments of recent years – and especially the ageing of population – leading to increased budgetary pressures and high demand for better health and social care infrastructure; encourages member states to fight against the social exclusion of elderly people and any type of discrimination based on age; and reminds member states that ensuring access to adequate health and care services is a fundamental principle of the european model of solidarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation of the jordan river because it is necessary to encourage all the countries bordering on it to recover. the region of lower jordan is in a state of total degradation, with poor management leading to severe pollution and a 50% loss of biodiversity. in the 1994 peace treaty, israel and the kingdom of jordan agreed to cooperate along their shared borders to ecologically recover the jordan river and to ecologically protect water resources. but palestinians have been excluded from the israeli security zone established in the west bank along the lower jordan, illegally occupied by israeli settlers, who irrigate the land with water that belongs to the palestinians. this is causing the palestinian population in the west bank to face serious water shortages, and we therefore call on israel to put an end to its settlement policy, also in the lower jordan area. the riverside countries, with the support of the eu, should set up a jordan river basin commission for the recovery of the river jordan, in order to ensure the supply of sufficient water for the riverside population.
in writing. − i welcome the important vote, today, on a resolution that draws attention to and expresses its concern at the devastation of the river jordan, and the lower jordan in particular. it calls on the authorities of all the riparian countries to cooperate and rehabilitate the river jordan by drawing up and implementing policies which focus on achieving tangible results in the areas of domestic and agricultural water-demand management, water conservation and the management of sewage and agricultural and industrial effluents, and on ensuring that an adequate quantity of fresh water flows into the lower jordan. it welcomes the cooperation among israeli, jordanian and palestinian local communities facing similar water challenges in the lower jordan area and calls on israel and jordan fully to honour commitments made in their peace treaty concerning the rehabilitation of the jordan river.
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate mrs de veyrac on her report and on the work she has done to secure an agreement at first reading. i would like to make three critical remarks, however, which imply the need to yield whenever there is such a negotiation. first, the unique identification of victims has been dropped: when dna allows for such identification, it is logical that families would demand that they not be given any body but the bodies of their victims. secondly, there was no substitution of causes for concurrent factors. that is going to be a source of lawsuits and i think it is a profound mistake - and, if not, at the time - because it is necessary to separate technical investigation from judicial investigation. finally, we regret that the spanish delegation has to abstain in the end, despite its favourable position on the subject, simply because the relationship with gibraltar airport, which is now governed by the cordoba declaration of 2006, has been reflected since 1987. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this naturally means that we will have to abstain, without prejudice to our 'again' favourable view of the report and the work of mrs de veyrac, which i 'rightly' commend because it is a good report and will be fundamentally positive.
madam president, today marks the two and a half year anniversary of the air crash which left 154 victims at barajas airport in madrid and many broken families, most of them from the canary islands. all the members of this parliament share your grief. unfortunately, two years later, the technical investigation is still ongoing. the families of the victims are still wondering what happened, and they have no answer. i regret that this is so for two fundamental reasons: firstly, because the families of the victims do not deserve it; and secondly, because important data which would be fundamental to aviation safety and which could be indispensable to prevent future accidents are not brought to light. i hope that this regulation which we shall be voting on tomorrow will at least help to speed up the procedures for technical investigations and that such situations will not be repeated. i share the concerns of my colleague, mr luis de grandes, and i congratulate the rapporteur on reaching an agreement at first reading, but i hope that we have not made too many concessions to satisfy certain interests: the important thing, the first thing, is the victims.
madam president, i share the view that the sole purpose of this regulation is to prevent future accidents without prejudice to fault and liability. i am glad that it guarantees the independence of the research and improves coordination with the network it is intended to support. it protects victims and their families by various measures; it protects sensitive information which requires complete confidentiality and which must not be used for purposes other than the investigation. we talk about voice recordings, we talk about images. but i think that the principle of the "just culture" should also have been incorporated, which was also expected by professionals, who are sometimes judged by the media even before the research. i would like to say, finally, that i welcome the fact that companies are required to provide minimum insurance for the families of victims, who will be protected as they are not at present.
madam president, asylum is a precise, defined legal concept which has nothing to do with a readmission agreement. the agreement with pakistan is a community instrument integrated in the framework of the fight against illegal immigration and not in the field of international protection or asylum. the purpose of the agreement is clear: the readmission of pakistani nationals who do not fulfil or no longer fulfil the conditions for entry, presence or residence in the territory of a member state, or of third-country nationals or stateless persons who hold a visa or residence permit issued by the pakistani authorities and who have entered the territory of a member state illegally from pakistan. respect for fundamental rights during the repatriation process must be ensured by requiring compliance with the rules of international law, in particular the principle of non-refoulement and the european convention on human rights. the measures contained in the agreement will apply only to persons who are in the territory of the union irregularly, without affecting those others who have been granted asylum or whose application for international protection is pending. i believe that we cannot and should not mix up different issues which could prevent the formalisation of a fundamental agreement in the development of the common immigration policy of the european union. so yes to the deal, but with the demand for guarantees from pakistan.
mr president, i think that in the year of biodiversity we have talked a lot about the tragedy that is happening, but very little about solutions. i believe that society needs solutions, new ways of approaching the problem. firstly, the division of europe into biogeographical areas would have to be translated into a specific policy, because the problems of different parts of europe are not the same. so we should have a micro-policy dedicated to biodiversity because, precisely, biodiversity is local. secondly, it is appalling that we should turn our backs on all measures concerning the soil and the abandonment of agricultural land when it is precisely the trophic cycle of animals that requires a detailed study of each area. and that's not done. what is not known is that in many areas, planting certain trees has more birds, planting certain plants also has more insects. experts acknowledge that the lack of insects is the great tragedy of biodiversity loss, especially in relation to birds. there is no mention of the problem of soil, of insects and of the organic richness of the soil. it seems a crime to talk about soil in europe. and finally, i want to say that owners are essential. the committee has rejected an amendment i tabled on stakeholders. but, well, if we have birds or animals, won't the farmer who plants the plants where they come to eat have a say? won't the habitat owner have a say? won't the farmers have a say? this kind of ideological dictatorship must be ended in europe if we are to achieve a better biodiversity.
mr president, mrs de lange says that the alarm bell is ringing, and it is true. and there is also the frustration, as is being heard in the speeches in this house, that the millennium goals have not been achieved. and the truth is, we're playing a lot. our natural environment is so fragile that if one day the big fish decided that it wasn't going to continue to eat the little one, we would have to pay for it all out of our generational pocket with our health and well-being as the bargaining chip. the european union is a leader today in the fight against climate change and has been for some time in pioneering and conservation measures. but as the missed targets show, there seems to have been a lack of will, not only of implementation and coordination - which have also been mentioned here - but also of expansion, to go beyond our very limited special areas of conservation. of course, biodiversity is not a museum piece that can be locked up in a ghetto area, as it sometimes seems to be done, by taking a look at it from time to time. biodiversity lives and knows no borders, crossing the whole earth in a domino effect where, if one chip falls, all the others fall. and i want to draw attention to the need for a global and more community-based will, especially in relation to land, because subsidiarity as the only method of managing land or forests can be one of the new and feared enemies of biodiversity. that is why i call attention to paragraph 67 and the possible outcome of the vote and ask you to reject the second part, because i am convinced that a common policy on soil would help to preserve the whole of the european territory, so varied, so diverse - for better or for worse - so lacking in political will on the part of the states and so in need of, increasingly, european union, with all the extension of the word and what that means: more union also for soil.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to convey to you all a message from oswaldo payá, sakharov prize winner of this parliament: 'dear friends, the people of cuba want change, they want to enter peacefully into a new stage of their lives, leaving behind what is meant by hatred, violence, repression, lies and fear, and opening themselves to reconciliation and being ready to take the path of progress in all respects. these changes, which are imposed on us by decree, are already present in the minds and hearts of the cuban people, but it is necessary that the civil and political rights of the citizens be respected, that there be free and democratic elections, that there be freedom of expression and association, freedom to travel, work and participate in the economic, political and cultural life of the country. change is rights, and those rights are lacking in cuba, where many are still persecuted for promoting the rights of cubans and also imprisoned for that cause. it is in the direction of solidarity with the cuban people that the european common position is heading and it is that position that must remain. you should know that even though the government of cuba does not initiate the changes that many cubans want by supporting the varela project and other civic initiatives, there are people working for those peaceful changes right now. these are the initiatives which you should support, in line with that common position, so that it is also a common behaviour.
mr president, we are going to talk again about free trade agreements between the european union and third countries. i have already referred to the agreements with colombia and peru, which have caused enormous damage to the banana plantations in the canary islands, and today i want to talk about morocco. on 16 december the commission adopted its proposal on the new agricultural chapter of the association agreement with morocco: a proposal which increases the tomato quotas, maintains the period from october to may instead of extending it throughout the year, and does not revise the entry price system, a system which has been shown to be fraudulent, as olaf itself has acknowledged. this agreement is fatal for community producers in andalusia, murcia, valencia and the canary islands in particular, and the commission is fully aware of this. the commission cannot look the other way and propose a new agreement without guarantees when the existing one is breached without action being taken. the entry price system needs to be reviewed urgently and i ask the commission to do so without further delay. the commission's duty is to defend farmers: do it!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internet is not used for commercial purposes. the new systems of commerce through the internet and the new technologies and opportunities that we now have in our hands did not exist just a few years ago. however, they are now a fact, and soon they will be an indispensable tool. as legislators, we must have the greatness and the height of vision to create tools at the service of citizens that solve today's problems, but that anticipate and can adapt to tomorrow's. it is a commitment we must make and a responsibility we are obliged to assume. we must prepare the ground for what is to come, for those who are to come, and this makes it necessary to overcome the barriers that now stand in the way of this purpose. e-commerce is a tool at our disposal with enormous potential to re-launch and improve the competitiveness of our economy and also to strengthen the internal market. it is a tool that can create great value and offer great opportunities for european citizens and businesses in these times of crisis. it is vital that eu leaders implement the necessary measures to overcome the existing barriers to cross-border e-commerce in europe and that we build trust in this medium, simplify it and make the rules governing it transparent. only then will citizens and businesses be able to benefit from its enormous potential. only then can we be competitive in a global market that waits for no one. either we take the necessary action with energy, with decision and leadership, or we will fall behind our competitors. the report i am presenting today proposes measures to overcome barriers to crossborder trade. we have the opportunity not only to prepare the internal market for e-commerce, but to help complement the internal market through e-commerce. the measures i propose in it are aimed at improving the quality of internet access in europe, strengthening consumer confidence by creating a european quality label, strengthening network monitoring and surveillance and carrying out information campaigns so that users know their rights and how and where to complain if they have problems; also protecting private property and personal data of users, encouraging the development of initiatives that encourage entrepreneurs to sell their products online, improving payment systems or simplifying rules on the payment of taxes, among other measures. finally, i thought it necessary to stress in this plan the need to improve the protection of minors in the use of the net. i believe that all these measures are essential to boost online commerce and to adapt the rules that now govern it to the future we are already living in. we have an obligation to offer the market mechanisms which will improve the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs and strengthen our economies. and this plan is, without a doubt, a foundation on which to continue building without hindrance or impediment. for these reasons, i would like to ask this house for its support to go ahead with this initiative.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the member states are not able to meet the requirements of the treaty. in the winters of 2005-2006 and 2008-2009, the supply cuts in the north and east of the union became a real nightmare. the harshness of the last few winters in europe has made it all the more necessary for us to do everything in our power to avoid similar situations in the future. the union's energy supply is largely dependent on external sources, and diplomacy can do much in this strategic field. we are all aware of the commission's efforts in this area - which we value and appreciate - but we need to have more directly effective mechanisms. we must bear in mind that in the supply crises we have experienced, the rules of the national markets and the lack of interconnections prevented fully satisfactory aid to the member states concerned. the regulation we are about to vote on is intended to be a firm step forward in solving this problem. we have been trying to make progress on this issue for a long time, overcoming the difficulties arising from the different national views, and the negotiations have been long and laborious. the agreement we are voting on today shows that the member states have moved beyond their partial positions to accept a much more european approach. once it is adopted, we will have a really powerful instrument to increase the security of gas supply in the union as a whole. the regulation was adopted unanimously by the committee on industry, research and energy, following the successful conclusion of the trilogues with the council. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the alternative rapporteurs for their excellent work - which is reflected in the final text - and the members of the committees who contributed their views and whose amendments were incorporated into the text in significant numbers and importance. i would also like to thank the european commission for its valuable support to the co-legislators and to acknowledge the generous cooperation of the spanish presidency of the council, which kept us informed at all times of the state of play of its work. this regulation ensures the safety of each and every european citizen, who will now be better protected in the event of a crisis. in addition, some flexibility is given to member states to include additional protected customers such as public services. but the legitimate zeal of a member state to protect consumers in its national market must be balanced by an obligation of solidarity towards the citizens of the other member states of the union. the regulation imposes an obligation on gas supply companies to supply protected customers in the event of a crisis for a minimum period of 30 days without interruption. the member states will also have to build or renew their own infrastructure in order to further integrate the internal energy market and limit the presence of energy islands. one of the most important achievements of this regulation has been to impose reverse flow on all member states' gas interconnections, respecting the criteria of need and cost-effectiveness. the reverse flow will allow, with short-term investments and at an acceptable cost, an unprecedented diversification of supply in europe. a tangible example is the yamal gas pipeline, which supplies poland, the czech republic, slovakia and germany via belarus. another achievement of parliament is the important role given to the commission, which has the power to veto specific measures if it considers that they may jeopardise the security of supply of other member states. the commission will also play a decisive role in coordinating member states during crises through the gas coordination group. this regulation offers a real solution to a real problem: the regulation strengthens the security of gas supply and requires all market players to work together to deal with any acute supply problems. the correct and efficient functioning of the market, the building of interconnections and the diversification of suppliers and routes are the best defence against future crises. mr president, the regulation on the security of gas supply represents a profound qualitative change, whereby the member states abandon purely national schemes in order to enter fully into an ambitious european vision. it is true that two crises of pernicious effects have been necessary to awaken the community consciousness of some, but attrition is welcome if its consequences are analogous to those of constriction. finally, mr president, this regulation is a historic milestone towards the security of gas supply in the union and is a clear proof of the goodness of our great project of integration. the correct and rapid application of this regulation will send a very strong message to our suppliers and, in most cases, to our friends, that the union, as far as gas supply is concerned, is no longer governed by the slogan 'save yourselves' but by 'all for one and one for all'.
mr president, commissioner, we have been reminded here today that the crisis of january 2009 showed more than our energy dependence. we learned that a significant part of the problem was within our borders. spain, for example, was unable to come to the aid of the nine member states concerned despite having resources to do so. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that internal solidarity requires that gas can move easily throughout the union without technical or contractual obstacles and, above all, through cross-border interconnections which, today, are still far from being optimal. that is why this regulation is so important, because it clearly links the construction of interconnections to security of supply, and it emphasizes the need to diversify our sources and to eliminate energy islands. let me conclude, mr president, by congratulating the commission, mr vidal-quadras and the spanish presidency on having contributed in record time to european solidarity in the energy field.
madam president, today's debate raises the question of how to build a strategic partnership with china, based on its economic potential and on our system of values, particularly with regard to human rights, which must be universal. a brilliant british analyst, garton ash, said that the relationship with china raises four problems and they all start with the letter t: trade, taiwan, tibet and i want to remember the suspension of the eu-china summit in 2008 and tiananmen as far as the human rights issue is concerned. what is clear, mr kasoulides said, is that none of the problems facing the world today - globalisation and the digital economy and the reform of the financial system, the issue of security and the struggle to try to contain nuclear developments (look, if not, at the case of iran), the issue of preserving the environment and natural resources and security of energy supply - can be solved without china's participation. the united states has been able to establish a structured relationship, not without difficulties. president bush nominated the dalai lama for the congressional medal of honor, and yet those relationships work. commissioner, given china's importance on the world stage, in the un security council, in the g20 or in the bric countries, will we be able, as the european union, to consolidate and build on that relationship? and more importantly, madam president, will the european union be able to help pave the way to freedom by starting from the unique system of chinese state capitalism? i believe, madam president, that this is the most important issue, and i ask you, commissioner, to defend our system of values at this next summit, also by showing a pragmatic attitude.
madam president, commissioner, china is on an export and investment offensive on virtually every continent. trade and investment have increased considerably. projections suggest that by 2014 china will overtake the european union and become the second largest market for latin american exports, while in 2015 latin america will buy more from china than from europe. however, from my point of view, an interesting reservation should be made, namely that the european union could delay this eventuality if our association agreements with central america, the multilateral trade agreement between the eu, peru and colombia and the eventual mercosur trade agreement boost bilateral trade between the european union and latin america. at the last china-europe summit in 2009, both sides hosted a trilateral dialogue between the union, china and africa and agreed to explore possible areas of cooperation. does the commission not think that, given that the council is also absent, the next summit should encourage a similar dialogue between the european union, china and latin america?
madam president, commissioner, in the coming weeks the european union will be holding three key summits: the first with china, the second with the united states and the third with africa. at the same time, the treaty of lisbon will have been in force for one year and the european external action service will be about to become operational. it is time for europe to really play the role of global actor that it is called upon to play in the world by taking on not only economic relations but also political relations, what has to do with nuclear proliferation, what has to do with climate change, what has to do with security, with china's role in africa and latin america. and so it is time for us to have a summit unlike any other. this is the 13th summit, but it is the first where europe must act with one voice.
madam president, europe faces a major challenge in its relations with the emerging countries: we must articulate our relations. the european union has a commercial, political, strategic and humanitarian interest in its first most important partner: china. spain exports 500 million euros, imports 580 million and imports only a few thousand. the valencian community exports 60 million euros and imports 25 million. the balance is 240% positive. the valencian community is a major exporter to china, 12% of spain. he imports shoes, toys, electrical appliances. china is the third customer of the valencian community. he imports furs, shoes, plastics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the regulation improves safety investigation to prevent future accidents, coordination through the creation of the network and assistance to victims and their families, but i regret that two issues have not been included: firstly, the concept of a culture of fairness, so that staff are not punished for decisions taken in accordance with their experience and training, without in any case tolerating gross negligence, deliberate infringements or acts of destruction, and secondly, the requirement for a code of self-regulation to prevent the dissemination of sensitive information that may reach the media, and thus avoid unnecessary suffering for families.
in writing. − an important vote, the one on the budget. in fact, whereas the council’s position on draft amending budget no 5/2010 covers modifications to olaf’s establishment plan, without additional financial provisions, as well as the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (tor, i.e. customs duties and sugar sector levies), vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the relevant uk corrections as well as their financing and revision of financing of gni reductions in favour of the netherlands and sweden in 2010, resulting in a change in the distribution between member states of their own-resources contributions to the eu budget, whereas the purpose of draft amending budget no 5/2010 is to formally enter this budgetary adjustment into the 2010 budget, and whereas the council adopted its position on 13 september 2010, we took note of draft amending budget no 5/2010; and approved council’s position on draft amending budget no 5/2010 unamended and instructs its president to declare that amending budget no x/2010 has been definitively adopted and to arrange for its publication in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. − in this important report on e-commerce, among other things, we stress the importance of enhancing confidence in cross-border internet payment systems (e.g. credit and debit cards and e-purses) by promoting a range of payment methods, enhancing interoperability and common standards, tackling technical barriers, supporting the most secure technologies for electronic transactions, harmonising and strengthening legislation on privacy and security issues, combating fraudulent activities and informing and educating the public.
in writing. − the verts/ale group tabled several amendments in the committee on transport and tourism, such as a better definition of ‘preliminary reports’, stronger independence of investigations, also from financial interests, better availability of flight data recordings, better info to victims’ relatives, a review of this regulation in the near future, including the disclosure of sensitive safety information to the judiciary and best practices of member states and investigation authorities. most of these amendments were adopted, though the wording was weakened via the agreed compromises. given that no major changes occurred during the vote in plenary, we maintain our positive position on both the legislative resolution and the amended proposal.
in writing. − the legislation adopted today is a welcome, if overdue, step towards addressing the cyclical disruptions to our gas supply. the final text goes much further than originally envisioned. crucially, it makes the commission responsible for eu-wide coordination during emergencies. it also addresses the needs of individual consumers by ensuring there is a minimum gas reserve of 30 days for all european households in the event of supply disruptions, and requires ‘reverse flow’ technology for all gas interconnectors, which will allow flexibility in responding to crises. regrettably, however, the eu lacks any coherent strategy on the role of gas in european energy policy. gas will clearly play a part in the eu’s transition to a renewables-based economy and the eu must be more strategic about how it deals with this. the landscape for gas is changing, whether due to new supply sources and resources (like shale gas) or to new measures affecting demand, such as eu legislation on buildings’ energy performance. the greens believe the commission must take stock of these developments and undertake a proper analysis of gas supply and the role of gas ahead of the eu’s ‘energy summit’ this coming february.
in writing. i deeply regret the vote in favour of the agreement. pakistan is already the country that hosts the largest number of refugees in the world, and it hasn't even signed the geneva convention on refugees. with this agreement, the member states are primarily targeting the afghans: it is the height of cynicism and indecency to send home the victims of a war in which the member states are involved. and the european commission, like the pakistani authorities, are in the absence of subscribers to explain the feasibility and impact of this agreement: no one has any idea. it is irresponsible for my fellow members to capitulate to our new prerogatives granted by the lisbon treaty and blindly accept the european commission's petty guarantees of an agreement that potentially violates human rights.
in writing. − the vote today on this report underlines that, given the important trade volume and deeply rooted relations between turkey and the eu, due attention should be paid their trade and economic relations and, in this context, the necessary steps should be taken to further improve these relations. to date, several technical issues remain to be resolved and immediate action should be taken in their respect. the customs union has to be rendered more functional; pending issues need immediate attention and turkey and the eu should further align their trade policies, especially in the context of ftas and regional trade. these actions are likely to lead to a win-win situation which will be beneficial to both economies.
in writing. the eu must take responsibility for the fiasco of the 2010 strategy to combat biodiversity loss. it is now up to all decision-makers not to repeat the same mistakes by 2020 and to move beyond declarations of intent to action. parliament therefore called for three key measures to be implemented as a matter of urgency: an integrated approach in all sectoral policies (agriculture, fisheries, transport, industry, etc.); an end to member states' breaches of european environmental legislation; and the adoption of a european environmental strategy. and allocate 0.3% of gdp to measures to protect biodiversity. parliament's vote on this report is a good start. the council and the commission must now take up this matter and ensure that the soil framework directive is unblocked without delay, that adequate funding is provided for the management of natura 2000 sites and that the bio-conditionality of public aid is implemented. we must not hide the fact that there are still obstacles to overcome, because a successful strategy to halt the loss of biodiversity requires a fundamental re-examination of our economic development model.
in writing. − we, the greens, have supported this report as it notes that natural and man-made disasters may have very serious consequences for the economic and social development of regions and member states and points out that the main objective of disaster prevention is to safeguard human life, the safety and physical integrity of individuals, fundamental human rights, the environment, economic and social infrastructures, including basic utilities, housing, communications, transport and the cultural heritage. it stresses that a proactive approach is more effective and less costly than one based simply on reacting to disasters, taking the view that knowledge of the local geographical, economic and social context is fundamental to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters.
in writing. − our abstention in the end is due to the fact that the original text of paragraph 94 has been adopted, calling on the commission and the member states to 'develop a coherent approach which respects the fundamentals of the free market and which guarantees reciprocity in the field of trade'.
the following is the joint debate on the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human use, regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency (com (((2008) 0664 c6-0515/2008 2008/0257 (((cod)) (a7-0153/2010), and the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards pharmacovigilance, directive 2001/83/ec, laying down a community code on medicinal products for human use (com ((2008) 0652-0614 (cod)) (com (2008) 0602-065) 2008/06-06 (cod))
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to highlight the work of the rapporteur, mrs mcavan, not only in substance but also in form, because she has worked in collaboration with all the alternative rapporteurs. i would also like to thank the experts from the spanish administration for their contribution to this agreement. the purpose of this european union pharmacovigilance system is to strengthen surveillance, transparency and communication in relation to the safety of medicinal products once they have been placed on the market, especially with regard to their risk profiles and the adverse reactions they may cause. the creation of the european pharmacovigilance committee, which will assess and make recommendations to the european medicines agency on safety issues that may arise with medicines placed on the market in the european union, is noteworthy. the solution reached for the notification of suspected adverse reactions to the eudravigilance database by both member states and marketing authorisations is very important. eudravigilance will be the only source of information, but at the same time the competent authority of the member state where the adverse reaction is suspected to have occurred will be informed, and this is very important. it is also worth noting that consumers will be able to report any adverse reaction and, in this regard, the creation and management by the agency of a european portal on the safety of medicinal products, which links to the portals of each member state, will help to improve the knowledge of citizens on the safety of medicinal products they consume. finally, we must not forget that, since pharmacovigilance plays a fundamental role in protecting public health, the adoption of this directive and this regulation will make a major contribution to that protection by improving not only the existing procedures but also the coordination of action between the various member states.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mrs mcavan and the various rapporteurs, as well as the spanish presidency and the commission, on the work they have done to reach this balanced agreement, which is so crucial for all european patients. this dossier is a concrete example of european added value in the lives of our fellow citizens, and the application of these provisions will undoubtedly help to reduce the number of medical cases due to adverse reactions to medicines, a factor which is still today - as some have pointed out in this chamber - one of the main causes of death, particularly in hospitals. how can we not welcome the vote on the first reading of these new clear and effective rules on pharmacovigilance? i hope, moreover, that by the end of the belgian presidency i will be able to welcome the agreement reached on the other dossiers of the pharmaceutical package. the presidency is in fact working with parliament and the commission to develop these crucial issues, both for our fellow citizens and european patients in particular, and for the pharmaceutical sector.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the debate which took place today, with the participation of so many members, shows the importance of the agreement reached between the community institutions. it is a strong signal that the commission, the council and parliament are sending to the citizens of our european union and that will be reinforced by the dossiers that will be approved - i hope very soon - on falsified medicines and on the information to be given to patients, also because i share the concerns expressed during the debate about the deaths that have occurred as a result of medicines that do not comply with the rules, as mr ronzulli has stressed. i am also pleased to be here today with my newborn daughter. that is a good sign, it means that young europeans are growing up with europeanist sentiments. i also agree with what mr dorfmann said, and i think it is right that each of us should be able to express ourselves in our own mother tongue and to know in our own mother tongue the rules that guarantee our safety, including in the world of medicine. i am a strong supporter of multilingualism in all areas, including those i normally deal with. i would also like to reassure mr vergnaud of his concern, and i thank him on behalf of the whole european commission, although commissioner dalli has unfortunately not been in the chamber today, but he will certainly be informed of this debate and i will report on all the comments made by all the honourable members who took part in today's meeting. the commission is very grateful to you for having been able to send a strong signal to our fellow citizens in the european union. as regards the question raised by mrs rivasi on the strengthening of the rules on the risks posed by medicinal products to the environment, we also believe that it is important to take account of the aspect of environmental protection, and we accept the parliament's suggestion that a report be presented by the commission, accompanied, if necessary, by a legislative proposal on the risks posed by medicinal products to the environment. i would like to take this opportunity to remind the members that environmental aspects have already been included as a point of action in the commission's communication on the future of the pharmaceutical sector, adopted prior to this legislative proposal in the framework of the pharmaceutical package presented in december 2008. annex position of the commissionproposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards pharmacovigilance, directive directive 2001/83/ec on the community code relating to medicinal products for human use (com ((2008) 0665 c6-0514/2008 2008/0260 ((cod)) amendments to the rules of procedure directly acceptable: amendment no 74 (text as a whole, block no 1, compromise amendment) is not acceptable. the commission is in favour of the adoption of the compromise text by the co-legislators. proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending, as regards pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human use, regulation (ec) no proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency (com ((2008) 0664 c6-0515/2008 2008/0257 (cod)) directly acceptable: amendment no 41 (text as a whole, block no 1, compromise amendment) is adopted. the commission is in favour of the adoption of the compromise text by the co-legislators.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by christa klaß, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market and their use (com ((2009) 0267 c7-0036/2009 2009/0076 cod)) (a7-0239/2010).
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take note of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the commission proposal for a regulation laying down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-13. i would like to say at this stage that i will be happy - and it will not be a surprise - to give you or to give you again the council's opinion on this matter. i would like to remind you that the council considers that the so-called lisbon legislative package in the budgetary field, of which this regulation is part, should be limited strictly to a technical implementation of the consequences of the lisbon treaty. in other words, the transposition of the current multiannual financial framework into a regulation should be nothing more than a transposition of the existing financial perspective. the commission proposal is exactly in that direction and the council does not therefore wish to discuss a revision of the multiannual financial framework at this stage. that said - as you will have understood - our positions are quite different, but i am convinced that in the coming weeks and months we will reach agreement on this regulation, at the latest, in particular during our negotiations in the context of the budgetary conciliation which is to be concluded at the end of november.
member of the commission. − madam president, members of parliament, the commission welcomes the report and hopes that this is a step forward towards real negotiations and the final agreement of the lisbon budgetary package. the regulation being discussed today is only part of a package, as requested in article 312 of the treaty, to incorporate the multiannual financial framework regulation into the council regulation to be adopted by unanimity, after obtaining the consent of parliament. what is left is a residual interinstitutional agreement and the revision of the financial regulation. taken all together, that is the lisbon budgetary package, and i think this is a coherent set of rules. now we need to agree on the package and i believe that the coming conciliation in october/november is the best occasion on which to base our budgetary procedures upon solid grounds in compliance with the lisbon treaty. the major message coming from parliament’s report, restated by mr böge, is very clear. parliament would like to have more political exercise on this occasion, while the commission has chosen to make this a transposition of rules, making as many changes as needed by the new treaty alignment methodology so as not to cause additional problems on this occasion. this was a conscious choice. i can agree with the rapporteur that there are new responsibilities for the various institutions stemming from the lisbon treaty and the budgetary impact should be carefully assessed so that, should it lead to the need for additional appropriations, the commission is ready to present proposals as in the case of iter. this can possibly be discussed. we very much welcome parliament’s position in favour of flexibility, at least at the same level as it has been so far. this is needed, as was proved by our procedure, so i think both arms of the budgetary authority should be committed to a solution that cannot be legally disputed and respects the role of the institutions. i am of course ready as usual to commit to the compromise. i have to repeat that the conciliation of october/november should offer this opportunity as we really need to proceed further on the solid ground of the new procedures, as this is legally undisputed and in compliance with the lisbon treaty.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, i want to start with a piece of advice to the president-in-office of the council, precisely. i do not think it would be politically advisable to rely so heavily on the conciliation procedure of october and november, starting from a position as different as that which you are putting forward in this house. i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on this matter. in any case, and to take up the arguments of my colleague reimer böge, you in the council have had the bad habit all these years of setting political priorities without regard to the budgetary framework, and this has led us to financial engineering exercises in galileo, in the european economic recovery plan, in the 'food facility' or, more recently, in the financial stabilisation mechanism, or in iter, which depart from the parliamentary control and transparency that you governments do demand in your national budgets. and the community budget deserves exactly the same consideration as national budgets. forgetting that statement is a sure way to get in trouble. we have no margins, we ignore the real expectations of the implementation of many multiannual programmes and we reject the widespread use of re-proposals as an alternative to the exhaustion of these margins. this repression is not a budgetary saving but an example of bad budgetary practices and of no planning at all. a genuine mediumterm budgetary review should, as the commissioner says, bring flexibility considerations and should bring some figures. after two years of delay, this is the least that this european parliament deserves and is prepared to accept.
we are gathered here again today, madam president, to remind the commission and the council of something they have known since 2006, when we adopted the current financial framework for the union: the community budget does not have enough money to finance the policies that the council and the commission themselves have decided and that we have also, in fact, supported from parliament. and we all knew that when we adopted the financial framework for 2007-2013, we knew that it was under-resourced in priority areas, but we approved it in order to overcome a deadlocked discussion within the council, but on the condition that this financial framework be revised in 2008 or 2009. and despite these agreements, we have reached 2010 without any proposal from the commission. we have sometimes been given the excuse of the economic crisis, but the money we are demanding is precisely to revive the european economy. i told you last june that we were discussing such important issues as the europe 2020 strategy. this is to ensure that we do not fall behind in r & d & i, job creation, global competitiveness and environmental protection. i ask them again whether they really believe that we can achieve all these objectives without increasing the community budget or whether, on the contrary, we are going to be left once again with beautiful declarations. i haven't heard the answer yet. today, for example, in new york, our heads of state and government are working to achieve the millennium development goals, and parliament is enthusiastically supporting them. but unfortunately our support is not enough and that is why we need the ministers responsible for the budgets to make these commitments and to agree to make the necessary means available to the european union. and we need that money now, for this year's budget, for next year's budget, to finance also, for example, iter without having to cut the funds of a programme already decided on, such as the research framework programme. the debate on the next budget may be poisoned if the council insists on opposing a revision of the financial framework, as it seems to be doing again today. the new budgetary procedure introduced by the treaty of lisbon may become a serious source of conflict between the council and parliament if we do not work in the same direction. and so we ask the commission and the council to work with parliament to review the current financial framework so that we can provide the additional resources needed to finance all the initiatives we have already mentioned. without this review, the european union will not be able to meet the expectations of our citizens, we will not be able to develop the commitments in the field of competitiveness, growth and employment, nor the commitments in the field of external relations. we therefore ask you to reflect on the problems we have had in approving all the budgets under the current financial framework. we have had to use the margins available and the flexibility instrument to finance such important priorities as galileo, the 'food facility' or the european economic recovery plan. we ask for flexibility, not just to meet current demands but to have enough room for future needs. in short, we ask you for commitment and ambition, to join forces, to mobilise resources and to take action to really give the european union the impetus it needs.
member of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. i'm sure you will. i am absolutely convinced that it is precisely in cultural cooperation that crossborder regional cooperation is needed, because the cultural environment is precisely crossborder in terms of administrative boundaries. it is therefore extremely welcome if this will be one of the priorities of regional cooperation in the danube-moldavia euroregion. the european union has a long tradition of supporting the cultural heritage of the region.
member of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. i am pleased to say that the commission was able to put forward a positive opinion here a few days ago, that it is proposed here to propose financial assistance of just over 13 million euros. this now requires the approval of parliament, but also of the council. let me just recall the story briefly. the first losses were reported on 19 november 2009 and have occurred. the request was submitted on the latest possible date, 27 january 2010, i.e. just within the 10-week deadline. it took a lot of different kinds of demand. we had sent a further request to the irish authorities on 24 march on behalf of the commission, which was answered on 15 june. the problem was that the overall damage recorded did not reach the threshold for a national disaster. so the question was whether a regional disaster could be classified. this required further research and evaluation. they have taken place. as i said, the positive result is all there is. on 14 september we were able to submit this proposal that the european union should provide a total of just over 13 million euros to cover the costs incurred by the public authorities in the wake of this disaster, subject to the agreement of parliament and the council.
member of the commission. - thank you, gentlemen, for your words of appreciation, which i would like to pass on to my staff, who have worked so hard here. the rules for the solidarity fund provide for a threshold of 0.6% of gnp, which in the case of ireland would be €935 million at present. and there is a ceiling of eur 3.5 billion in damage, so this concerns in particular four of the five major european member states, which will otherwise move forward in completely different dimensions. this is one of the reasons why the commission proposed in 2005 to adapt the solidarity fund in two main directions: firstly, to harmonise the thresholds or the threshold value, so that on the one hand the national threshold value is lowered, but on the other hand to harmonise both categories - national and regional disasters - because i do not want to hide the fact that we have on average twice as many requests for reimbursement of costs than we can actually grant, not for financial reasons, but because the assessment does not allow the european union to contribute to the refinancing of the costs incurred here. the aim is to standardize the procedures, which should also speed up the process. as you can see in your example of ireland, it takes eight, nine, ten months, and in this case a few weeks more, so probably a year at the end of the day, before the payout actually takes place. this is also due to the fact that this solidarity fund is outside the budget. the second issue was to broaden the criteria for what can be subsumed under catastrophe. the only way to record natural disasters at present is through the solidarity fund. the idea is that you should also add to this the cases of technological disasters. these various proposals were rejected by the council in 2005. but now, in view of the unfortunately numerous disasters god has caused, i have taken up the challenge again. my department is preparing an adapted proposal which also takes account of the experience of the last five years. i hope that some of the countries which have benefited from this european solidarity support, particularly in recent months, will now also be involved in any possible adaptation and that we will then have an adapted, wider-ranging but above all more responsive solidarity fund in europe in the future.
member of the commission. the new uk government is committed to an economic model that is strongly local. it is not yet clear what the new structures will look like. i cannot therefore give a definitive conclusion here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope - though i am a little worried - that this will not cause too much delay in project implementation.
member of the commission. - very simply: no contact has been made to date. the idea of co-financing, if that is what you mean, must continue.
the next item is the commission statement on the european strategy for the economic and social development of mountain areas, islands and sparsely populated areas.
mr president, commissioner, if we are to achieve the objective of territorial cohesion, which is introduced in the new treaty, it is necessary that all the territories of the union should be able to enjoy the same rights and freedoms. we must therefore be very proud of the agreement reached in this parliament to promote the adaptation of european policies to the particular needs of islands, mountainous areas and sparsely populated areas so that these regions can develop their full potential and compete on equal terms. and in this connection i would like to emphasize something very important: at present some island regions do not have funding for crossborder cooperation projects simply because they are more than 150 km away. this is an irrational and unfair criterion which aggravates the isolation and which we propose to abolish. ladies and gentlemen, as the president has very well said, i live on an island in europe and i know firsthand that insularity has a cost. it is our duty as legislators to help to alleviate it. and as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, article 174 of the treaty gives us the opportunity to do so.
mr president, commissioner hahn, for the first time in the history of european integration, the treaty of lisbon incorporates the regional dimension and territorial cohesion as a defining objective of the union. i am speaking in this debate as a member of the european parliament from an island territory, the canary islands, which is covered by article 174 of the treaty in its specific reference to island territories, as well as by article 349 because of its status as an outermost region. but i am aware that, in addition to their territorial fragmentation, the islands, as they are always the external borders of the european union, pose a particular vulnerability to the union's energy, transport, infrastructure and, above all, internal and external security strategies in the face of threats, in particular against illicit trafficking. i therefore call for strong support for this resolution and, above all, for its translation into concrete policies - which must fill it with content and which we cannot go into in detail - and, in particular, for its transfer to the financial perspective for 2014-2020: that there be a budget that is up to the objectives and that financially supports the ambition of making the citizens who live and reside in the union's island territories citizens with full rights, with equal rights and opportunities with respect to citizens who reside in the continuous territory of this great area of integration which is the construction of europe.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all those who have signed this motion for a resolution, which we in the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and in spain, the country we represent, welcome very warmly. we have the legal framework, we have the treaty of lisbon - the third paragraph of article 174 - we have territorial cohesion, which is the new pillar of this treaty, and we therefore have the legal bases to get on the road and help these regions - islands, mountain areas or depopulated areas. in the case of mountain areas - as has already been said here - there are more than 90 million inhabitants; in the case of islands, 21 million people live on islands, specifically in 14 countries; and many millions more live in mountain areas. all these regions share very similar problems in the areas of culture, education, transport and the environment. in particular, there is a disadvantage that unites us all, namely the disadvantage of transport. i come from the balearic islands, where the additional cost of transport has been estimated at 20%. this is certainly having an impact on our industry, our agriculture, our strategic sectors, our tourism and, in short, on the whole business sector, on the whole business fabric. and so it affects our competitiveness. so if we look at resources, like drinking water or soil, which is limited, or raw materials or energy or living space in these areas, we will see that they undoubtedly lead to a phenomenon of scarcity and lack of economic diversification. we therefore call for the new financial perspectives to take account of the specific features of these territories and for us to move - as has also been said here - from words to action, and this should be translated into a budget and thus into greater territorial cohesion.
mr president, keeping the population in sparsely populated areas is the best guarantee for their conservation. the strategy mentions the word development, but i want to emphasise three principles: first, the business models that generate development in these areas must be geared to profitability and the quality of production, and new activities linked to the low-carbon economy are the way to boost them. secondly, the social economy is the most appropriate mode of enterprise to link these populations in shared projects concerning their well-being. thirdly, people living in these areas must have access to a level of public services, health and education, as well as transport and telecommunications infrastructure, comparable to that of the rest of the population. better to invest in this than in production subsidies. that is what i want for the basque country, and, commissioner, this will only be possible if europe has the regions and local governments, if it clearly defines the objectives of the funds, if it assesses their impact and if it takes account of the different realities.
mr president, mr commissioner, issues such as unemployment, rural development, agriculture, fisheries, transport, the promotion of renewable energy and environmental protection are essential for our islands, mountainous regions and sparsely populated regions. we need an integrated and coordinated strategy with the aim of contributing coherently to its development. these areas have great potential for economic and social development which we cannot afford to lose. at the same time, to make this possible, we must compensate for the disadvantages arising from their particular geographical and demographic situation. in this respect, a necessary measure in the framework of regional policy is the removal of some of the limits to participation in crossborder cooperation programmes, such as the requirement that there be a maximum distance of 150 kilometres between crossborder regions, which hinders greater cooperation between island regions and with maritime border regions.
mr president, commissioner, to speak of territorial cohesion is necessarily to speak of islands, of mountain regions and also of the outermost regions. it is to talk about their problems and their difficulties, their natural handicaps and their structural handicaps. but it's also, and fundamentally, it's about talking about how we can remove the barriers that are holding them back, it's about talking about strategies to turn those disadvantages into opportunities. improving connectivity, a proper neighbourhood policy and stability in policies and in the structural funds are issues that we must tackle without any complexes, and all this on the basis of two major premises: territorial cohesion and the principle of solidarity. there are those who don't believe in strategy. i do, and this resolution should be a proof of this parliament's commitment to these regions and of the commission's demand that it should take political decisions which take account of the needs of these vulnerable territories and whose problems are manifested most sharply in times of economic crisis such as the present one.
mr president, i am very pleased that the european council has dealt with the union's external action. we are in a new world, with economic multipolarity and increasing political multipolarity with a small number of important actors. furthermore, the challenges are global. no country can face them alone, not even the eu. as the president of the commission said a few days ago, in the global world size does matter. the european union must be one of those actors. i therefore regret the vote in new york last week on strengthening the union's position at the united nations. it's very troubling what happened. i think it is very good that summits with the other major players should be carefully prepared in future. we have to discuss with them - in addition, of course, to the meaning of their vote on 14 december in new york - important bilateral and multilateral issues. among other things, it is about governing globalisation, adapting the institutions born after the second world war and strengthening more recent forums, such as the g-20. and in all this i think it is necessary to consult the united states. we share many values and interests with them. i trust that the summit on 20 november will be well prepared. ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the new instruments of the lisbon treaty, the union's external action will have more continuity and coherence. but alongside the union's internal strength, the political will of the 27 and, in particular, of its most important members, to act together is also essential. this process of conjunction will inevitably be long and difficult. but it is necessary if we are to avoid europe's irrelevance or what has already been called the advent of a post-western era.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that i am returning to you to deal once again with financial supervision, since we had the opportunity to discuss it following the last ecofin meeting, the legislative package on supervision now being put to the vote in parliament. it is a set of texts that sets out a particularly important reform in the union and responds to several challenges. the first challenge - the president-in-office has just spoken about it - is the response to the crisis. the decade that is ending has seen the implementation and deployment of the lamfalussy architecture in all financial sectors. the committees of overseers have, in a sense, made their first weapons there. they have contributed to the development of european financial legislation and to a process of gradual convergence of prudential supervision. this process was an important and positive first step towards a european approach, but in the light of the crisis it must be admitted that this process did not prove ambitious enough in the end. it has not prevented or contained the financial crisis, nor coordinated rapid and effective responses on the ground, particularly in cross-border cooperation. that is why we are seeking to set up a european operational systemic risk committee, with the full administrative support of the european central bank, which, under the leadership of its president, is fully available to work on the implementation and establishment of this committee. i have no doubt that jean-claude trichet will bring all his competence and authority to bear, including in the follow-up to any warnings or recommendations made under his presidency. to the same end, we also want stronger, more responsive supervisory authorities, much better equipped to prepare community technical standards and ensure their full implementation, including in times of crisis. these authorities will have the legal means to enforce compliance with the standards on financial institutions in the event of a failure of a national supervisory authority. they will help to establish a genuine european supervisory area, which is essential for strengthening the internal market. they will thus be involved in the functioning of the colleges of supervisors and will help to settle any disputes between national authorities, while leaving the day-to-day conduct of prudential supervision to the latter. let us not be afraid of words, the establishment of these authorities is a historic agreement, as some have already pointed out on several occasions in this house. the belgian presidency made this its main priority in the area of financial markets, but also in a global way. make no mistake, we are thus continuing to build an original model of supervision - i will come back to that - but we must also take account of the evolution of supervisory structures in our main partners. this is the second challenge: to show that the eu-27 is capable of reforming its financial supervision structures without being pushed back by the united states in particular. with the larosière report in february 2009, which was very well received by the european council, the debate in europe had started on promising paths, but we had to make these hopes of reform come true. the united states has meanwhile embarked on a major overhaul of its supervision with the passing of the dodd-frank act. by voting today, as i hope, in favour of the legislative package, which is the fruit of a year of examination, negotiation and cooperation between the various institutions, the european parliament will be proving that the european union is not lagging behind and that it is also a leader in the reform process supported by the g20. but you can only be a true leader in the long run. we must not only vote today on this historic resolution, but also make our new system work and evolve. this is the third challenge. on the one hand, we are aiming for a model of microprudential supervision that is largely decentralised, where the authorities support and coordinate national supervisors without replacing them. on the other hand, we also want a system which is constantly being strengthened rather than being replaced. with the european systemic risk board, we will establish a key body for macroeconomic debate and decision-making, including at the transatlantic and even global level. with the european supervisory authorities we will have effective actors in risk prevention and management, if we are to give them the capacity to carry out their work. this is partly the case with the omnibus i directive, on which parliament is called upon to give its opinion today. but other legislative measures will have to follow as part of the revision of existing texts. it is on this point, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that i would like to conclude. we are now at the end of a crucial first stage and, while hoping for a positive result from your vote just now, i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the econ committee, mrs bowles, the various rapporteurs of parliament, mrs goulard, mr garcía-margallo, mr skinner, mr giegold, mr sánchez presedo and their fictitious rapporteurs, and commissioners rehn and michel barnier, who are present in this house, and of course all their collaborators. we have had fruitful exchanges, obviously constructive, which have led to the package of amendments put to the vote today. but i hope that the determination to achieve that inspired us will continue to drive the negotiations on the next texts, which will complete and modernise this system even further. on behalf of my successors as president of the council, i believe i can commit myself to this in the coming months and, in the light of the recent negotiations, i am confident that this will be the case. i hope that we can come up with new agreements soon - particularly on investment funds - and that we can together, with commissioner barnier, support a whole timetable of actions to implement new legislation.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the supervisory architecture which you are about to vote on in a few moments, almost a year, the day after the commission adopts these proposals, is - i think i can say this - something quite historic for the evolution of financial regulation on our continent. the european union has been responding at international level since the beginning of the financial crisis. it initiated the g20 process launched at the washington summit in november 2008. the working party led by jacques de larosière drew the first major lesson from this crisis and, immediately afterwards, the commission formulated its proposals. i would like to pay tribute to the intelligent work of jacques de larosière, to whom we owe a great deal at the moment. with this agreement, we will have, if you will, the framework within which all the initiatives will now be located that will enable us, product by product, market by market, financial actor by financial actor, to put in place what we have committed ourselves to - i committed myself to you on 13 january, at the time of my hearing -: smart regulation and effective supervision. this framework, which we are going to adopt, is the very basis which gives credibility to all the sectoral initiatives we want to take. we owe this agreement to the personal commitment and competence of many of you. i should like to thank the rapporteurs, mr garcía-margallo, mr skinner, mr sánchez presedo, mrs goulard, mr giegold, mr tremosa i balcells and mr balz, and also the fictitious rapporteurs. i would also like to thank sharon bowles, who has led this negotiation with great determination. i would like to thank didier reynders, president of the ecofin council, for his voluntary work with his teams - it was decisive - on the basis of the good work done before him by the spanish and swedish presidencies. and then you will allow me, in a way that may be a little unusual - but i will tell you why - to say a word of thanks, on behalf of the european commission, to the man next to me, david wright, since he will be leaving his post in a few days as deputy director-general for financial services, because i want to say as i think that this man is a credit to the european public service. the added value of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is undeniable. it was a game-changer. i am thinking in particular of strengthening the powers of the european supervisory authorities: mediation, urgency, preparation of legal and technical standards, with a role in consumer protection - we will come back to this - prevention and protection against certain toxic financial products, the cross-border nature of the institutions which will be better taken into account. and then there is the establishment - i will also thank my colleague and friend, olli rehn, and his collaborators - for which we owe a lot to parliament, to the european systemic risk committee, in particular for its chairmanship. all of this is of course a compromise. some would have gone much further. the commission itself has made dynamic compromises and concessions on many subjects. we regret, for example, the solution finally adopted in the process of drawing up technical standards, which in our view cannot serve as a precedent for other sectors, and i shall confirm this in a statement. but, in sum, after the unanimous vote in the council, with your vote today if you will, europe will be based, from the beginning of next year, on a supervisory model adapted to its needs and the reality of its financial industry. in half of the european countries, half of the banks are owned by another country. this is a characteristic of the transnational dimension of financial institutions and the risks they may carry. we will have a supervisory model adapted to better prevent crises. we will be able to demonstrate to the citizens, who are worried and asking questions, that europe has reacted, that it is actually drawing lessons from the crisis, and that it is doing so alongside the americans, and i hope other continents, in the context of the decisions of the g20. as far as the authorities are concerned, and in order to see them come into being effectively on 1 january 2011, we have before us - i have before me - a great deal of technical, budgetary work that is being undertaken. we will have to appoint, with the consent of the european parliament, the future presidents and directors-general of these authorities. i want to say to you that the only criterion for these appointments must be that of independence and competence to make these new authorities successful, as i am confident that the future chairman of the european systemic risk board, who, thanks to you, will be president of the european central bank, will have the same concern for independence and the same competence. and then, ladies and gentlemen, we will, with determination, fill the vacancy which we have on 1 january next. esma will be rapidly empowered by the role it will play in the decisions that are being or will be taken: the proposal to place the supervision of credit rating agencies at european level, the draft regulations on otc derivatives and short selling, and then the credit default swaps, adopted just a few days ago. we're not stopping there. it is a whole integrated programme to consolidate, clean up, make our financial system more transparent, which we will follow, step by step, with you: the regulation of the hedge fund and private equity sectors, which we are working on at this very moment, the implementation of the basle iii agreement on bank capital, the revision next year of the financial markets directive, the strengthening of sanctions in the context of the revision of the market abuse directive, the establishment of a european framework for crisis management and resolution. all these measures must be taken to avoid the recurrence of severe crises, to protect consumers, who are also taxpayers, and to foster the sustainable and equitable growth we are all calling for. ladies and gentlemen, i have always believed that in the financial sector as in the environmental sector, prevention always costs less than repair. i would like to remind you that in this financial crisis we have, in one way or another, mobilised 17% of european gdp to save the financial system. it is the banks that have to pay for the banks, not the taxpayers. prevention will always be cheaper than repair. our aim is that all these measures, which we will present as part of the agenda adopted by the commission and supported by the ecofin council on 2 june, will be implemented and presented with determination, voted on if you will, and in any case adopted and proposed by the commission before the end of 2011. ladies and gentlemen, madam president, i would like to say, on a personal level, that the quality of the relations we have had, the uncompromising trust which has animated our debates, gives me an encouraging sign for this very rigorous and very demanding agenda. i would like to thank you for all the services of the commission.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, today is a good day for europe. in december we had a bad agreement and today, thanks to the cooperation between this parliament, the council presidency and the commission, we have a good agreement. a good agreement that will establish genuinely european authorities, strong authorities and authorities subject to the democratic control of this parliament: authorities that will be designed to ensure that all banks are subject to the same rules throughout the european union, to impose their decisions on national supervisors and, if they do not comply, on private banks themselves, to protect families and businesses, to deal with banks that may cause systemic risks and to prevent taxpayers from having to pay again for the irrational excesses of certain financial institutions. the lesson to be drawn from this debate is that this parliament is not a barking dog that backs down at the slightest move by the council: it stands firm on its positions. it is not a dog that eats and lets eat: it is a good ally of the council and the commission in advancing the process of european integration. thanks to my colleagues, the rapporteurs, commissioner barnier and minister reynders, we have today a magnificent agreement to be congratulated on.
madam president, i congratulate those who have worked on this financial package, especially the officials and members of this parliament. it took a financial crisis of enormous proportions for europe to wake up. however, an opportunity has been lost, in part, to strengthen the common institutions of europe, because, on the one hand, these new supervisory authorities have a limited scope of competence vis-à-vis similar authorities in member states, and it is a pity, moreover, that no progress has been made in integration similar to that which occurred with the european system of central banks. we've made some progress, but we have to keep climbing the mountain.
madam president, commissioner barnier, minister reynders, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the commitment to adopt the financial supervision package at first reading with a large majority. european supervision was an old aspiration in the construction of europe, an indispensable instrument for advancing financial integration, making monetary policy more effective and improving competitiveness. it was also a pending subject to put a stop to financial hypertrophy and to correct the gap between global finance and national supervision. the present crisis has confirmed the inadequacy of the market and of national solutions. the deficiencies in regulation and supervision identified must be corrected. in our case, supervision is a priority in financial reform because, if european regulation has been weak, supervision has been non-existent. european supervision lays the foundations for a comprehensive, thorough and credible reform. this first transnational experience is a step towards a consistent system of international financial supervision. parliament has worked together to make the package a triple focus: more balanced, reaching the safety and solvency of financial institutions, financial inclusion and the protection of consumers, depositors and taxpayers; more prudent, to respond to systemic risk, to act in emergency situations and to be able to temporarily ban toxic products; and more sustainable, fostering competitiveness, internalisation of costs and the prospect of a european crisis management system based on contributions from financial institutions. the omnibus directive enables the authorities to be put into operation by integrating them into sectoral legislation, specifying their powers and detailing rules for their operation, increases transparency in the exchange of information and cooperation, and at the same time sets a deadline for the reform in the legislative implementation process to be completed by 1 december 2012 and for transposition to be carried out with correlation tables. i would like to end by thanking all those who have made this package possible. today we are offering the first fruits, but this commitment marks a turning point in the evolution of finance and european democracy, because democracy is to legislate and to supervise, to ensure that laws are effective. so it has been shown that if we want better finance we need to go the way of more democracy.
madam president, the president of the european central bank will automatically become the president of the european systemic risk board for the next five years. this is not a minor issue. it visualises that the ecb is really implicated in the financial supervision of the european financial markets and institutions. it also means that mr trichet, who is also accountable in his hearings in this parliament, will also have to answer questions relating to financial supervision, not only questions relating to price stability. with this reform, the president of the ecb will risk his reputation and his credibility in achieving effective financial stability in europe. thanks to this reform, doing business as usual will be more difficult for the financial institutions that have generated this crisis. it will benefit future generations of european citizens.
i am grateful to the rapporteur for her efforts to accept some of the suggestions and, of course, for her defence of copyright, which i share, but the inclusion of the infringing and punishable nature of certain exchanges and the recognition of the authority to punish suppliers, as well as the exclusion of mass exchanges as a possible infringement in the alternative resolution, make it impossible for us to vote in favour of either of the two reports in question. the gallo report has aroused great interest and could have been timely, but the background of the debate is too focused on the debate, for or against, of the french law called hadopi - cutting off the internet connection for offenders - without there having been a genuine european debate yet which takes into account the reality of other progress in national legislation. i hope that we will reach a common position in the socialist group and a majority in the european parliament in the debates and amendments on the commission's proposal for a directive, which will be before parliament shortly, according to commissioner barnier. we will then try to achieve a more balanced position than we have today, taking into account both the rights of internet users and the essential respect for intellectual property.
in writing. − with the adoption of this resolution the ep asks the council and the commission to take into account the following recommendations: (a) that they work with the european parliament to allow swift adoption of the new instruments needed to implement the budgetary provisions of the lisbon treaty and revise the current mff in order to provide for the extra resources necessary to deliver initiatives not foreseen when the current mff was adopted, and (b) that they fully comply with article 312(3) tfeu, which requires the financial framework to lay down any provisions required for the annual budgetary procedure to run smoothly, and with article 312(5), which states that ‘throughout the procedure leading to the adoption of the financial framework, the european parliament, the council and the commission shall take any measure necessary to facilitate its adoption’ – among many others.
in writing. − with the adoption of this resolution the ep 1. takes note of draft amending budget no 7/2010; 2. approves the council’s position on draft amending budget no 7/2010 unamended and instructs its president to declare that amending budget no 5/2010 has been definitively adopted and to arrange for its publication in the official journal of the european union; and 3. instructs its president to forward this resolution to the council and the commission.
in writing. − with its vote, today, the european parliament: (1) approves the commission proposal as amended; (2) calls on the commission to alter its proposal accordingly, pursuant to article 293(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; (3) calls on the council to notify parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by parliament; (4) asks the council to consult parliament again if it intends to amend the commission proposal substantially; and (5) instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments.
in writing. − while the proposals adopted today will bring improvements for public health, the greens are concerned about the provisions on product authorisations. the proposed centralisation of product approvals at european level has been tailored to the demands of the industrial lobby at the possible expense of rigorous product evaluation. for this reason, the greens abstained in the final vote. eu approvals should not lead to less stringent standards. the proposals adopted today would lead to european-level biocidal product approvals, giving the industry full access to all eu markets, without first ensuring the necessary resources are in place to manage those authorisations. the greens are concerned that the european chemicals agency will have reduced means and significantly less time than at present to ensure rigorous authorisations. it is, however, a consolation that meps supported a green demand to give member states the right to place extra controls on the use of biocides.
in writing. − while the proposals adopted today will bring improvements for public health, the greens are concerned about the provisions on product authorisations. the proposed centralisation of product approvals at european-level has been tailored to the demands of the industrial lobby at the possible expense of rigorous product evaluation. for this reason, the greens abstained in the final vote. eu approvals should not lead to less stringent standards. the proposals adopted today would lead to european-level biocidal product approvals, giving the industry full access to all eu markets, without first ensuring the necessary resources are in place to manage these authorisations. the greens are concerned that the european chemicals agency will have reduced means and significantly less time than at present to ensure rigorous authorisations. it is, however, a consolation that meps supported a green demand to give member states the right to place extra controls on the use of biocides.
in writing. we abstained on this report because the gains made in protecting human health and the environment have been cancelled out by gifts to industry which endanger the functioning of the european chemicals agency. it is acceptable that all biocidal products may eventually go through the centralised procedure. but this becomes unacceptable if the time limits for scientific evaluation are drastically reduced while their financial resources are reduced. we cannot want to do much more, faster and cheaper without compromising the quality of the work. this vote shows the true intentions of the right and the centre-right: a 'light' assessment for all biocidal products, with direct access to the entire internal market at the expense of the health of the population. the small consolation is that the sovereignty of member states to restrict or prohibit the use of biocidal substances will be respected - it is up to them to ensure a high level of protection.
in writing. − the european parliament today adopted legislation creating new eu financial supervisory authorities (for banking, insurance, pensions, securities and markets) and a european systemic risk board (esrb). today’s vote not only establishes eu-level financial supervision, it also represents a landmark for the creation of a new eu financial architecture and stronger regulation of europe’s financial markets. europe-wide regulation is the only viable response to the financial challenges we face and to preventing a return to financial chaos. this underlines the relevance of the eu at a time when renationalisation is raising its head. the supervisory authorities will be more important than originally foreseen and have real teeth due to the insistence of the eu parliament. a cross-political alliance of meps worked to ensure the authorities were given real powers in the face of opposition from some member states that refused to acknowledge lessons from the financial crisis. unfortunately, it seems parliament will have to continue to fight to ensure the new authorities are able to provide meaningful supervision. this means ensuring that the new authorities are sufficiently staffed and that they will have direct supervisory powers over market infrastructure (such as central counterparties and trade repositories). the greens are already working with the other main political groups to this end.
in writing. − the resolution adopted today proposes an archaic, one-size-fits-all response to intellectual property infringements, and fails to recognise the changed reality of intellectual property. it is regrettable that meps were unwilling to acknowledge the obvious distinction between counterfeiting crime and copyright infringements. it is ridiculous to equate private music downloading, for example, with commercial product counterfeiting by organised criminals. we need to find new solutions that take account of the different types of intellectual property rights and reflect their impacts on consumer safety rights or health. clearly though, we also need to find new models for remunerating artists in the changed environment.
in writing. − strong support the one that the ep has given to this resolution where we welcome the inclusion of territorial cohesion as a new objective of the union, as well as new article 174. with its adoption the ep believes that the provisions of article 174 should be translated into specific development strategies and concrete measures aimed at overcoming the handicaps and exploiting the potentials of these regions; and considers that mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas constitute homogeneous groups of regions and that they share some important common features which differentiate them from other regions; believes that they deserve specific regional development programmes; stresses, in this context, the special situation of the island member states located on the periphery of the union.
mr president, according to the un assistant secretary-general for peace operations, 15,000 rapes occur in the congo every year, most of them as a weapon of war against women and girls. since july this year, more than 500 have been recorded, with insufficient action by the united nations, which has accepted its partial responsibility for failing to protect citizens. operation monusco - you've recognized it today - doesn't work. i want to know and ask them if we have data that explains why it's not working, and we need to ask for accountability and new actions. europe must work, through cooperation and international pressure, to ensure that impunity is not allowed in the democratic republic of congo either, so that this country can take decisive action in the face of such barbarity. and i would like you to please answer the question i have asked you: do we know why the un operations are not working? what are we gonna do from now on?
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour, once again this afternoon, of speaking on behalf of the high representative, lady ashton, and not on behalf of the council, as the table indicates. the european union and the united states attach great importance to the fact that their citizens can move easily from one side of the atlantic to the other. this mobility can be greatly facilitated by the possibility of making these trips without prior visa and without fees. however, while us citizens can travel to the schengen area without first obtaining a visa, the same cannot be said for eu citizens. thus, four member states are still excluded from the us visa waiver programme: bulgaria, cyprus, poland and romania. on the other hand, we can be glad that greece was recently included in this programme, on 5 april. this is a good result for the commission, which is making every effort to ensure that all member states benefit from the exemption programme, and for the successive presidencies which have been working to make progress on this matter. the commission has therefore produced a report every year since 2006 on all third countries which maintain the visa requirement for our citizens, in breach of the principle of reciprocity, since the european union attaches great importance to the existence of full reciprocity in this area. if the union exempts certain third countries, it is only right that they do the same for our citizens. moreover, for reasons of security which we understand well, the united states decided to introduce, at the beginning of 2009, an electronic pre-registration system. this system should only be used for passengers who are from a country that benefits from the visa waiver programme and who are travelling to the north american territory. since 8 september, each of these passengers has to pay an amount of 4 dollars which has been set to cover the administrative costs generated by the implementation of the esta. this is in addition to the ten dollars that these same passengers already have to pay under a law on tourism promotion. to this end, an agency has been charged with developing tourism and is financed to do so by a fund fed by the payment of this ten euro tax. in the light of these latest developments, you have asked the commission to take a position quickly. as early as december 2008, the commission reported on whether or not an esta should be considered equivalent to a visa and, at that time, provisionally concluded that it should not be. as soon as the final rules on esta have been published by the north american authorities, the commission will present its final report on the subject. it is clear that the payment of the said tax will be an important element in its assessment. the report will be taken into account by the council, which will then take the necessary measures, including any recommendations it deems appropriate. as you will have understood, we must deplore the introduction of this additional tax and the presidency shares the concerns expressed by parliament on this subject on several occasions and in particular in its resolution of 22 october last, in paragraph 18 in particular. and while this may seem small at first glance, it is worth remembering that it is due for each traveler, which can sometimes prove very costly for families. this policy therefore seems to me to be contrary to the stated wish of the united states to facilitate mobility between the two continents and will be a real obstacle to european citizens wishing to travel to the united states. i would like to conclude by confirming to you that the presidency will do everything in its power to help the commission to achieve full reciprocity of the visa exemption with the united states. thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would also like to thank mr chastel for his remarks and for offering the council’s help, because in an issue as important as this one, the support of the council is absolutely crucial. regarding the position of the commission on the esta fee, i have to underline that it was immediately following the publication of this fee on 6 august that my colleague, commissioner malmström, issued a statement in which she expressed the understanding that this decision is taken in accordance with the travel promotion act’s obligations, but regretting very much the introduction of the fee. the commission made very clear its concerns that this fee is inconsistent with the oft-repeated commitment by the united states to facilitate trans-atlantic mobility and that it will be an additional burden for european citizens travelling to the united states. the eu has raised its serious concern vis-à-vis the us congress and the us administration on numerous occasions during the process of passing the travel promotion act. numerous démarches were made by the commission, both with the council presidencies and with third countries. in its démarches the commission also criticised the fact that the fees apply only to travellers under the us visa waiver programme and that therefore it is discriminatory. moreover, it seems peculiar that foreigners are requested to pay for promoting tourism to the us, as this may possibly lead to less, and not more, travel to the united states. the commission is currently examining further possible measures that could be taken vis-à-vis the united states in the framework of the eu reciprocity mechanism. the commission will issue formal comments to the us in the framework of the public consultation launched by the us on the interim rule. a final assessment of the present esta will be issued once the final rule on esta is published in the usa federal register, taking into account any possible changes. the commission has requested that this issue of concern be discussed with all member states at the upcoming justice and home affairs council on 7 and 8 october. subsequently, the esta fee will be raised at the next eu-us jha ministerial in december. the commission will, of course, continue to keep parliament informed at all stages of this process and on the démarches undertaken. minister chastel also reiterated the importance of equal treatment on the part of the united states vis-à-vis all eu member states in relation to the visa obligation. here i would like to remind you that significant progress has been achieved in the visa reciprocity mechanism over the last two years. further to the commission’s efforts to achieve full reciprocity with the us, eight more member states have joined the us visa waiver programme – seven member states at the end of 2008 and greece in april 2010. the commission continues to raise with the us at political and technical level the importance given by the eu to the admission of the four remaining eu member states – namely bulgaria, cyprus, poland and romania – to the visa waiver programme as soon as possible. i can assure you that the commission, in cooperation with the council and the high representative, will insist on putting this issue on the agenda of any future eu-us meetings.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but it is necessary for this parliament to take note of the fact that a decision has been taken by the united states. this decision is contrary to the will of the transatlantic dialogue to continue to make progress in strengthening not only trade but also social and human exchanges in all their dimensions, based on mutual trust and reciprocity. we cannot accept the discriminatory application of a tax which clearly contradicts the promotion of such exchanges, which creates dividing lines between the member states of the european union and directly affects citizens, and which, moreover, contradicts the european attitude towards the united states and its fellow citizens, which has not only always been respectful of the will to strengthen human and commercial ties, but has always favoured the dimension of transatlantic mobility in relations between citizens of the two hemispheres. so i think it is very important that this parliament sends a clear message that it expects the commission to defend the european position vigorously and, if necessary, to enforce the reciprocity clause, which is obviously not good news for the transatlantic dialogue but would send a clear message that we are not prepared to accept, simply, the lack of reciprocity in promoting the human and social exchanges that take place through the link between european and american airlines, not to mention, obviously, the economic impact this would have on the serious crisis already affecting air transport on both sides of the atlantic.
i am surprised to see that the low attendance of members in the evening sessions has a parallel in this question time to the council. the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution (b7-0462/2010). the following questions were put to the council:question no 1 by bernd posselt (h-0399/10):subject: identity in foreign and defence policywhat is the council doing to consolidate the identity of the eu in foreign and defence policy? although the eurocorps does not belong directly to the eu, does it play a role of example and leadership? and what steps has the belgian presidency of the council envisaged to develop the eu in the field of external security?
president of the council. - mr president, i am in any case delighted to be speaking on behalf of the council to a large audience - i am speaking of the public. european security and defence policy has evolved...
the procedure, mr posselt, is perfectly clear. mr chastel answers the question you have put in writing and then you have the opportunity to expand on the question, to put a supplementary question, etc. it is mr chastel's responsibility to answer your question now as it was put in writing.
president of the council. - to this supplementary question i shall give an answer quite similar to the previous one. of course, we want to incorporate as much operationality as possible in the field. of course, at the informal meeting of defence ministers tomorrow, this specific issue will be discussed, and we shall see in the coming days what comes out of an informal meeting of defence ministers, some of whom i know are keen to make progress on this issue.
i would like to say to mr posselt that i understand that the minister's kind comment, like mine, is in line with his own comment that the question was interesting and the answer very interesting and therefore i think we should all be sorry that there are no more colleagues in the house benefiting from both the work of the member who put the question and the council's answer. question no 2 by mairead mcguinness and question no 3 by georgios papanikolaou have been withdrawn by their authors.
question no 4 by vilija blinkeviciute (h-0408/10):subject: reducing poverty and exclusion it should be noted that belgium is the first country to be able to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy under the presidency of the council, in particular those focusing on reducing social exclusion, poverty and inequalities, and lifting at least 20 million people out of poverty. one of the main social priorities on belgium's agenda is the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which would help to ensure greater cohesion and economic growth. what concrete measures does belgium intend to take during its presidency to achieve the objectives set and to bring the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion to an effective close?
president of the council. - if i remember correctly, i already answered this question in the same room two weeks ago, during the same question and answer session, and i reiterated that this method can indeed bring about a number of practical results. i can therefore only reiterate what i said two weeks ago.
question no 5 by pat the cope gallagher (h-0410/10):subject: international symposium on science and fisheries partnership agreements can the council indicate the main topics to be addressed at the next international symposium on 'improving science and fisheries partnership agreements as policy drivers' and what results it hopes to achieve at this international conference?
president of the council. − the symposium entitled 'international symposium - enhancing partnerships between fisheries and scientists as a driver for policy' will be organised by the belgian presidency on 9 and 10 november in ostend, which is - as you may know - a belgian coastal city. the presidency invited the european parliament to attend on 15 july when it presented its priorities. the belgian presidency hopes that by organising this symposium it will contribute to the discussions currently under way to prepare the reform of the current common fisheries policy. a new common policy on this should be in place from 2013. scientists and the fishing industry often have different views and take different positions on fisheries and environmental management. the aim of the symposium is to discuss this issue in depth and to draw lessons from good practice in this area. to this end, it is envisaged to organise discussions around five themes: data collection and stock assessments, joint efforts to improve selectivity and reduce discards, communication between scientists and industry, improvement of the integrated consultation process and, finally, self-management. the results of the symposium will be used to initiate a debate at ministerial level at the agriculture and fisheries council in november. the council could then draw the appropriate conclusions.
president of the council. - i would like to thank the honourable member for his suggestions and concerns, which i will gladly pass on to the relevant minister who will chair the symposium.
question no 6 by brian crowley (h-0411/10), to be replaced by pat the cope gallagher: subject: eu-croatia accession negotiations could the council indicate the chapters which are pending between the eu and croatia in the framework of the eu accession negotiations?
president of the council. - i have no idea. i shall therefore send the honourable member my reply in writing, because i do not know the thirty-five chapters: those which are open and provisionally closed, those which have just been opened, the three chapters which are on the table and which could be closed quickly. i thought i had given a comprehensive account of the state of the various chapters in my answer. if two of them are not yet open, i will inform you in writing.
mr. chastel, i'm sure mr. zemke will be pleased to receive a prompt written answer to your question.
question no 7 by marian harkin (h-0413/10):subject: demography and care providers given the belgian presidency's priorities in relation to demographic change, and more specifically its intention to adopt conclusions on poverty prevention, does the council agree that the role played by non-professional carers as a result of demographic change is increasingly important, and that one of the main challenges facing the member states is to ensure that non-professional carers do not become the next generation in poverty as a direct consequence of their responsibilities? what measures would the council propose to ensure an appropriate policy to support the role of non-professional carers throughout the eu?
president of the council. - the honourable member is merely reiterating one of the themes of my reply and i can only follow her in that direction. i really think that all those who make this choice of life, but especially those who do, should not be penalized at the end of their career when they should be able to enjoy a decent pension. that is the whole purpose and focus of the council at the moment.
question no 8 by tadeusz zwiefka, who has appointed jarosław leszek wałęsa as his alternate (h-0415/10):subject: al-aqsa tv broadcasts on 24 june 2010, eutelsat, the french satellite operator, stopped broadcasting the hamas television network, al-aqsa tv, through its atlantic bird 4a satellite. this followed a decision taken on 8 june 2010 by the french audiovisual council (csa), which considered that al-aqsa tv was in breach of french and european audiovisual legislation and requested eutelsat to stop broadcasting it. according to media reports, al-aqsa tv has circumvented this measure by changing the name of its channel to seraj al-aqsa (sometimes also spelled siraj al-aqsa). this channel is currently broadcasting on eutelsat via its satellites atlantic bird 4a, atlantic bird 2 and eurobird 2. what immediate measures will the council take to prevent al-aqsa tv from being able to circumvent the decision of the sac? are the french government and the csa aware of this situation, which is a direct violation of the csa decision?
president of the council. - i share partly your interpretation. it is true that it is up to the member states, under the control of the commission, to implement the directive. the council, as you know, is a co-legislator with the european parliament and it has taken up its responsibilities by putting in place an appropriate legal framework, namely the directive just mentioned. it is therefore up to the member states, under the control of the commission, to implement this directive.
question no 9 by silvia-adriana ţicău and question no 10 by seán kelly have been withdrawn. question no 11 by olle schmidt (h-0425/10):subject: the situation of the roma minority in europe and the free movement of citizens of the european uniondiscrimination against the roma minority is a widespread problem with a long history in europe. can the council give assurances that the situation of the roma minority in europe will be examined at european level and that it will seek a european solution rather than national solutions? the commission has pointed out that deportations of eu citizens within the internal market should be carried out on a case-by-case basis, in order not to impede the free movement of citizens. does the council share this view? if so, do you consider that the expulsion by france of 79 roma persons constitutes a violation of this fundamental community rule? in the light of recent events, will the question of free movement of citizens be discussed in the council? will the conclusions of the meeting on immigration issues to be held in paris on 6 september between the ministers of the interior of france, belgium, germany, italy, spain, the united kingdom and greece also be discussed by all the eu member states?
president of the council. − following the second european roma summit in cordoba in april, the council adopted conclusions on 7 and 8 june 2010 entitled 'advancing roma integration', in which it was recognised that a significant proportion of roma are in a situation of extreme poverty, discrimination and exclusion, resulting in low levels of education, inadequate housing conditions, poor access to employment and poor health. the council invited the commission and the member states to advance the social and economic integration of the roma in the context of the decisions taken and recommendations made by the union institutions, ensuring the most effective use of existing policies and instruments. the council also stressed the importance of ensuring the active participation of civil society, local authorities and the roma themselves. the stockholm programme, adopted by the european council in december 2009, makes explicit reference to the roma community and calls for member states to join efforts to ensure the full integration of vulnerable groups into society. the recent measures taken by a member state against persons belonging to the roma community were discussed at the european council members' lunch on 16 september. the president of the european council summed up the consensus resulting from this discussion in three points: a member state has the right to take measures to ensure that the rule of law is respected on its territory, the commission has the right and even the duty to ensure that member states comply with community law, and the issue of roma integration will be discussed at a forthcoming european council meeting. the belgian presidency also wished the issue of roma integration to be on the agenda of the epsco council on 21 october. the council was not called to discuss the outcome of the informal meeting held in paris on 6 september 2010, which, to my knowledge, was not specifically devoted to the situation of the roma.
president of the council. - on the one hand, i take note of the suggestion to review our history in relation to the problematic situation and, on the other hand, i would like to say how, in a matter which has been very passionate in recent weeks, the council, in this case, which i represent today, expects the commission to analyse the matter in detail in relation to the current debate we have had in recent weeks. it is not for the council to judge this or that situation, but for the commission to tell us whether the treaties and the directives are being respected in this area.
since the author of question no 12 is absent, this decreases.
question no 13 by jim higgins (h-0429/10):subject: trafficking in children: what measures will the council take to ensure that the member states fulfil their duty in combating the trafficking of children? in its latest report, the child protection organisation ecpat noted that ireland is one of the eu states with the worst record in the fight against the trafficking of children for sexual exploitation. although there are no reliable figures on child trafficking in ireland, this report has raised the alarm by stating that 441 children have disappeared while in the care of the irish state.
president of the council. − the legislation in force to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings is mainly the council framework decision of 19 july 2002 on combating trafficking in human beings, which obliges member states to make punishable offences related to trafficking in human beings, for the purpose of labour exploitation or sexual exploitation. a proposal for a directive to strengthen the fight against trafficking and the protection of victims, and a second proposal for a directive on the sexual exploitation and abuse of children and child pornography are currently being examined in the eu institutions. these proposals aim in particular at providing specific measures of assistance, assistance and protection for children who are victims of trafficking in human beings. they also contain provisions to improve the prosecution of offences committed outside the territory of the member states and rules to prevent such offences. on the basis of the stockholm programme, specific attention shall be given to children in particularly vulnerable situations, including children who are victims of sexual exploitation and abuse, as well as children who are victims of trafficking and unaccompanied minors. in the context of the union's immigration policy, it should also be added that the commission has adopted an action plan for unaccompanied minors, which proposes a common approach based on the principle of the best interests of the child, and identifies major areas of action such as prevention, reception and the search for sustainable solutions. following that action plan, the council, in its conclusions on unaccompanied minors adopted in june 2010, decided to request member states to strengthen measures concerning unaccompanied minors who are victims of trafficking in human beings by entrusting them to the competent authorities in the member state where they are located. as it is currently difficult to estimate the exact number of persons who are victims of trafficking in human beings within the union, or who are illegally brought into the union in the context of trafficking in human beings, and with a view to providing the european union with objective, reliable, comparable and up-to-date statistics, the council, in its conclusions of june 2009, adopted the establishment within the union of an informal network of national rapporteurs or equivalent mechanisms in the field of trafficking in human beings. this network, which should serve as a forum for the exchange of experience and best practice in the field of preventing and combating trafficking in human beings at european level, has been established. finally, a general guidance document on the fight against trafficking in human beings was adopted in november 2009. it is partly devoted to the question of child trafficking. as regards the part of the question which refers to a specific member state, it is not for the council to decide on individual cases.
president of the council. - i would like to thank the honourable member for his comments to the council and to reiterate that assistance and support for the protection of victims of trafficking is a major part of the proposal for a directive on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings. the council will do its utmost to keep this aspect of effective networking on the agenda, in particular by convincing all the member states to analyse good practice wherever it is applied in order to harmonize all the rules in this field.
question no 14 by liam aylward, on behalf of the ppe group: subject: european measures for job creation what measures are being taken at european level and in the member states to support and encourage efforts to create jobs? what are you doing to combat unemployment and what measures have been taken to ensure greater access to employment and the labour market throughout the eu, particularly in disadvantaged areas?
president of the council. - mr gallagher, thank you very much for allowing me to speak on this important matter. the member states are primarily responsible for defining and implementing their national employment policies. since the labour market situation differs from one member state to another, the measures to be taken will also necessarily vary, provided that they contribute, as a whole, to the achievement of the union's overall objectives. under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, these measures are coordinated within the european employment strategy, which includes employment guidelines and recommendations to member states. at its meeting in june 2010, the european council endorsed the general guidance on integrated guidelines for economic and employment policies, which is an essential tool for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for jobs and growth. having taken into account the opinion of parliament adopted on 8 september 2010, the presidency will submit them to the council for adoption at its next epsco session on 21 october 2010. according to these guidelines, member states and the european union should implement reforms aimed at smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. reforms should aim to improve participation in the labour market, in particular for under-represented groups - young people, the elderly, the low-skilled, legal migrants - reduce structural unemployment and promote quality employment through measures affecting both labour supply and demand. they also aim to develop a skilled workforce to meet labour market needs, promote lifelong learning and stimulate entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises. the appropriate use of european funds, including the european social fund, will help to achieve these objectives and ensure better access to employment and the labour market throughout the european union, particularly in the less-favoured regions. in addition, through the joint annual employment report, the council, together with the commission, monitors the employment situation in the member states and in particular the implementation of the employment guidelines and recommendations. the latest joint employment report 2009-2010, which dates from spring 2010, gives a true picture of the type of measures taken by the different member states to improve the employment situation, and in particular that of young people and women. the council stressed, for example, that member states must also improve the business environment, stimulate job creation, including green jobs, and help companies to modernise their industrial base. given the importance of the european employment strategy for coordinating and improving the effectiveness of national employment policies, it will play a key role in the new governance context established by the european semester.
president of the council. - i refer you to the belgian presidency's programme on this subject, because it is true that the question was on employment and we concentrated in the reply on structural measures to promote employment, through the 2020 strategy and the guidelines. but it's true, you're absolutely right. we have in the belgian programme a whole series of measures which are aimed at reducing the administrative burden on small and mediumsized enterprises, on micro-enterprises which do not have the structural capacity to provide staff to analyse all the legislation in force, and in particular all that concerns aid to enterprises, which is sometimes far too complex for small enterprises. i know that in belgium, and in any case under the belgian presidency, the minister responsible for this matter intends, at an informal meeting he is organising, to emphasise these administrative hassles and administrative burdens which hamper the smooth running of small and mediumsized enterprises.
question no 15 has been withdrawn by mr alan kelly and since the author of question no 16 is absent, it has been deleted.
question no 17 by richard howitt, who has appointed kinga göncz as his alternate (h-0444/10):subject: progress on the eu horizontal anti-discrimination directive 2010 is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. as part of its programme, the belgian presidency expressed its desire to make progress in the fight against discrimination and for equality. in view of this commitment, could the council indicate what progress is being made towards agreement on the horizontal anti-discrimination directive, which the european parliament has already put to the vote at first reading? could the president-in-office of the council confirm that the definition of goods and services to be included in the directive will comply with the eu's obligation to implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities? could the council indicate what is the strategy to dispel the doubts and concerns that member states continue to raise on the issue of the economic cost of equality?
president of the council. - mr president, during the spanish presidency, the council continued its examination of the proposal for a directive and on 7 june 2010 it took note of a presidency report on the state of progress of the work. the report states that further in-depth examination of the proposal will be necessary, particularly as regards the scope, the disability provisions and the timetable for implementation. the members of the council also stressed the need to guarantee the greatest possible legal certainty and to ensure respect for the principle of subsidiarity. the proposal should be adopted in accordance with article 19 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which requires the unanimity of the members of the council. while the draft directive aims to achieve some of the objectives of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, this instrument is not intended to implement that convention legally, as it has a wider scope that goes beyond the competences of the european union. it goes without saying, however, that one of the objectives of the discussions currently taking place in the council is to ensure consistency with this convention. as regards the economic cost of equality, the discussion also focused on the concept of disproportionate burdens, which is precisely aimed at finding the right balance between the effective right to equal access and the economic cost of such access. if all efforts are made to reach unanimity, the council is not in a position to foresee the outcome of the negotiations or their duration.
president of the council. - mr president, i understand the subject and the natural impatience in this matter. the discussions have probably been going on for too long, but this is an innovative proposal with a very wide scope and enormous practical implications. i repeat, the unanimity of the member states and the consent of the european parliament are required for the directive to be adopted. complex negotiations are taking place within the council, which is devoting a great deal of energy to this issue. the working party on social affairs has already discussed this proposal on two occasions under the belgian presidency; i am sure that if this problem is not resolved during the belgian presidency, the next presidency, the hungarian one, will do everything possible to bring the debate to a conclusion.
since the authors of questions nos 18, 19 and 20 are absent, they have been deleted. i would like to point out, in order to have a positive view of the circumstances, that for the first time in at least the last eleven years we have achieved absolute parity of the sexes in the house among the members present, since there are only mrs göncz and myself, which is exceptional and certainly desirable, although it would be better if this proportion were maintained at higher absolute figures. mr chastel, i would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart not only for your efforts but also for your efficiency, and i would like to tell you that it is not very often that, as in this sitting, virtually all the interviewees highlight the precision, the conciseness and the efficiency of your work.
madam president, this week we have had some wonderful news, which is the discovery of over 20,000 new species in the sea. and this is what the nagoya conference is going to be doing, so that not only do these new species continue to exist, but many more can be discovered and not disappear before we know them. but the credibility of the european union - the commission, the council and the member states - is not only at stake in nagoya; it is also at stake, above all, a month later in paris, at the icat meeting, where the future of a highly endangered species in the sea, such as bluefin tuna, is to be decided. and it is this coherence that i think is important to demand, because the commission's discourse in terms of maintaining biodiversity is good, it is very good, but it must be coherent when it is also applied to sectoral policies, for example in fisheries policy matters. it will be important and fundamental to see how the coherence we are going to see and hope to see in this nagoya demand is maintained in paris when we finally understand that protecting bluefin tuna is not just protecting an animal, but also a way of life, a culture and, above all, a way of looking at the world that is related to humanity.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission as a whole, as do i, believes that our objective is to develop a social market economy. i can say, for me personally and for my portfolio, that in this expression the ‘social’ is more important than the ‘market’. of course at the end of the day, the commission has to put forward, represent and implement a very balanced approach. however, i have always represented the social objectives and we have taken this very seriously. i also noted in the discussion that the forthcoming single market act would be received with disappointment by parliament if it were not to include a very strong social dimension. that is what we have been working on: ensuring that this very important document will be strong on social issues. i have participated in the relevant group of commissioners and have ensured the inclusion of items concerning pensions and other issues that are very important in terms of strengthening the social dimension of the european economy. however, there are many other issues. i would certainly object to an approach of having only one particular type of solution, i.e. establishing another high-level body in order to ensure that we deliver on social issues. there was nothing in my answer that suggests an objection to having a dynamic process on ssgi. in fact we find ourselves in a dynamic process on ssgi in the run-up to the october conference of the belgian presidency. i will attend both the opening and the conclusions of that conference, and i am very hopeful that it will bring up a number of issues related to ssgi to guide us forward. ssgi is treated very seriously in the upcoming european platform against poverty which will be published at the end of the year. mr courard, the secretary of state for social integration and the fight against poverty, also referred to this in his introduction. i am open to taking further steps. however, i would first like to see what these events and documents will bring from the wider range of european stakeholders. i would like to stress that, although officially there is some recovery, we are in a very difficult phase of the economic crisis and that there is still a lot of pain inflicted not simply by the crisis itself but also by the measures to exit the crisis. the commission has consistently been calling for the interests of social services and vulnerable groups to be taken into account. in recent weeks i have made many speeches and i have called for caution in terms of the macroeconomic policies of member states. fiscal consolidation is inevitable because countries accumulated high debts. however, austerity – especially mindless austerity – and single-minded expenditure cuts are not inevitable. all member states, even those that are under pressure from the markets, have room to consider how to deliver a measured fiscal consolidation. everyone has the capacity to balance the various options, expenditure cuts or revenue increases; and they can apply fairness, they can take into account the interests of vulnerable groups. the commission has been calling for that. even in these difficult times, we are calling for social awareness. that is where the european year has been helping us a lot. this has been an awareness-raising campaign and to that extent it has been a success because it helped to deliver the two very important targets of europe 2020. without this campaign we would not have been successful in delivering the very ambitious targets on raising employment and reducing poverty in europe. of course nobody believes that this can be delivered overnight. we have to improve our instruments. i accept what the honourable member said about the european social fund (esf). it has not been functioning perfectly; but we are in the process of exploring where the esf should be improved in terms of innovation, what the esf should be dealing with, and how it should be used. this is all part of a process. there are series of conferences to discuss that, especially in the context of how to handle the situation of the roma population, among other issues. the belgian presidency is holding a conference specifically on how the esf could be more useful in reducing poverty. i would be doubtful about establishing a new fund. i think we first have to explore how the social fund could be used, with the available instruments, to improve social conditions. here, i would underline the role of the european investment bank in terms of developing the infrastructure and services in europe. nobody is calling for the privatisation of social services. these are predominantly member state competences. however, if the eu rules concerning public procurement or state aid, for example, are applied correctly, taking all important parameters into account, they will guarantee quality, cost effectiveness and transparency. these are very important objectives and we should not undermine these important objectives, particularly transparency, when we try to pursue other objectives, however important or relevant those might be. i hope these points are convincing and that the upcoming events, especially the next conference on ssgi and poverty, will provide ample opportunities to discuss how to proceed. i can assure you that reducing poverty and improving social standards in europe are very much in the focus of the commission’s work and very much in the focus of my personal agenda.
president of the council. - mr president, i would like to thank all members for the quality of their speeches. the council asked the commission to develop a platform which is not limited to poverty but which really introduces a broader dynamic to deal with the fight against exclusion and the role of social protection. i would also like to say that in the austerity measures - the commissioner has just spoken about them - it was obviously important to take account of the measures to be taken to avoid that austerity leads to people becoming even poorer. the fight against poverty must not be forgotten in this day and age. i also thank the commission for its involvement in the search for greater legal certainty for social services of general interest, particularly in their specific features. we are genuinely keen to continue discussions, particularly within the social protection committee, and to improve the dialogue with the various stakeholders, both institutional and non-institutional. it is clear that, in the debate on the gss, as mr de rossa has stressed, the involvement of the european parliament is and must remain important. article 14 is also an important element to be used in discussions on gss. this will be one of the important topics to be discussed at the third forum on 26 and 27 october. finally, the council has difficulty in discussing social matters because of budgetary constraints, as you know. nevertheless, social services perform necessary, indispensable tasks which require particular attention and, if their specificity is recognised, this means that specific treatment must be provided. i would like to conclude by thanking commissioner andor for his dynamism and his willingness to make progress in all social matters.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by tanja fajon, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (com (2010) 0256 - c7-0134/2010 - 2010/0137cod)) (a7-0256/2010).
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate tanja fajon on her report, which was so committed and so determined. i also congratulate my colleague and friend, ana maria corazza bildt, for having been able to take on the commitment of visa-free travel with equal determination and passion for two countries which are in great need of it, namely bosnia and herzegovina and albania. i was also present, like you, at the war in sarajevo and mostar, and i also saw the mass displacement of milosevic's population and the solidarity of the albanians. so i am happy, mr president, that justice has been done and that, after the thessaloniki summit in june 2003 and the european union's commitment to exempting the western balkans from visa requirements, we can now, after the first stage in which these two countries failed to meet the requirements, reaffirm and welcome the commitment that albanians and bosnians will finally be able to travel to the community. the need to bring stability to the balkans, especially to countries which will undoubtedly be integrated into the union in the future, and to encourage the mobility of a population which is currently isolated, must, in my view, mr president, and must, dear cecilia, dear commissioner, be a political obligation of this parliament.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of penalties for infringements of the competition rules. it is a reaction to anti-competitive behaviour, a reaction which must be effective and forceful. a weak and insufficient reaction will be an incentive and a stimulus to infringement and therefore fines should be dissuasive; they should be dissuasive for the infringers but also have a general deterrent effect for all operators. it should be clear that unfair competition will not provide any advantage or benefit to those who do so. it is true that the commission has a wide margin of discretion in the application of fines. but discretion does not mean arbitrariness, because there are rules, there are limits, there are criteria, there is a procedure with guarantees and, in any case, there is judicial control. the treaty, regulation (ec) no 1/2003, the 2006 guidelines, the communication on the leniency programme also 2006, all constitute a framework that is working reasonably well. but the system can be improved. the experience gained from its application, the recommendations of experts and the legitimate concerns expressed by the institutions and some operators suggest that some issues should be addressed. transparency and predictability can be improved, and the impact on smes, employment and the sustainability of enterprises can be considered. the elements of flexibility on the amount and payments, as well as the link with leniency programmes and even how to overcome the divergences between the systems of the different member states should also be considered. the system can also be complemented by other appropriate instruments, such as focusing on individual liability, considering other remedies 'not only to put an end to anti-competitive behaviour but to prevent its recurrence', and launching private actions for damages, both individual and collective. all these issues must be tackled rigorously and in a systematic and positive manner, without casting doubt on the functioning of competition policy.
madam president, as a member of the commission on human rights, as a spanish and european citizen and as a victim of terrorism since the terrorist organization eta murdered my brother and his wife in seville, i address this parliament to denounce the government of venezuela and its president for having allowed eta terrorists to train on venezuelan soil at the behest of the alleged terrorist cubillas, who works for the government of hugo chávez, despite the fact that he is the subject of an international search and arrest order, which is a serious violation of the fundamental right to security of any european citizen. i demand that the spanish government take decisive action in the face of this grave humiliation of all spaniards. zapatero cannot remain silent while the venezuelan ambassador calls our civil guards "torturers" who have been and will be an example of courage in the fight against eta, nor can he look the other way at this growing cooperation between eta and the farc on venezuelan soil, as already denounced by judge eloy velasco. zapatero cannot shake hands with a leader like chávez, who is turning venezuela into a haven for terrorists. the president of a country like spain, where terrorism has caused so much pain, cannot continue to ignore this problem and should give an answer, which he deserves and which any ordinary citizen would give if he had the opportunity to do so.
madam president, i would like to denounce from this platform the abusive and undemocratic treatment of those who defend freedom and the defence of fundamental rights by the government of hugo chávez. the detention of my colleague iturgaiz at caracas airport cannot be overlooked. this is not the first time that the regime has attacked members of the european people's party. our mission as european parliamentarians is not confined to the community framework; it also involves promoting the values on which the union is based, principles such as freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. clearly, such a task is not welcomed by those who seek to impose totalitarian ideas on their citizens. the outcome of the parliamentary elections held on 27 september gives rise to hope, although we should all fear the reaction to the advance of the venezuelan opposition. what can we expect from a government that shelters terrorists from the oker command, from an executive who integrates an alleged eta murderer as head of security of the national land institute of venezuela, from a government that ignores the extradition requests of numerous terrorists fleeing from justice? obviously nothing. madam president, such despicable attitudes deserve a strong reaction from parliament and our firmest rejection.
madam president, i too am going to speak about venezuela, because there are those who do not understand that democracy is not just about going to vote. democracy is being able to do so safely, freely and on an equal footing, and in a democracy and a system of freedoms, private property must also be respected. unfortunately, today in venezuela, citizens and their businesses are threatened. i would like to refer here to a company, agroisleña, a company founded by canarian farmers, on which more than a thousand families depend, and which has been unjustly expropriated; a company which sees, like so many others, that after many years of effort, it is going bankrupt because of the capricious decisions of someone who believes that everything is okay. yesterday, land was confiscated; today, companies; tomorrow, who knows? it is time for citizens in venezuela to feel free, for businessmen not to feel unprotected and permanently threatened, and it is time for venezuela to be a genuine democracy in which there is no room for doubt that terrorists will not find accommodation.
madam president, on 18 october a trial will begin in the turkish city of diyarbakir against 28 leaders of the democratic party of turkey (dtp). among them are fourteen elected representatives of the citizens, twelve mayors and two municipal councillors. their crime: peacefully defending their political positions, which can cost them between fifteen years in prison and life imprisonment. the banning of the dtp and the arrests i have mentioned are yet another example of the persecution of the kurdish minority in turkey. these events were expressly condemned in the resolution we adopted on 10 february to analyse the progress made by this state in 2009 towards closer union; therefore we consider this progress to be insufficient. if we are consistent and want to help the victims and contribute to the correct development of turkey, we can do so: let us support the kurdish solidarity movement in this transition. i therefore encourage the commission and parliament to send an official representative to the diyarbakir trial.
madam president, it is irresponsible to question the firmness of spanish foreign policy in the fight against terrorism and it is false to accuse the government of venezuela of colluding with the training of eta terrorists on its territory, because there is no evidence of such collusion. there is dialogue and international cooperation in spain's determined fight against terrorism, both within and outside its borders, and there is dialogue and cooperation with venezuela, which has been asked to take concrete action in this case. instead of calling for breaks and clashes, let us let the police, judicial and diplomatic authorities work, which is what is giving unprecedented successes and fruits in the fight against terrorism in spain.
mr president, in the coming months we are going to have to discuss and decide on the future architecture of the structural funds, which are essential for overcoming the crisis and for tackling strategy 2020. i think that at that point it would be important to learn from experience and to maintain a twofold decision: the decision to maintain the european social fund in the framework of the basic rules and the regulation of the funds and of cohesion policy, but also, at the same time, the decision to maintain, without denaturing them, the objectives of the european social fund, its rules and its budgets. why would you do that? because the european social fund, ladies and gentlemen, must continue to provide training, must continue to prepare workers for integration into the labour market and for social cohesion; that is why the european social fund was set up. we need it now and we will need it in the years to come, and not just to build roads, because, after all, europe's main capital is its citizens; and if europe wants to play a role and maintain its social model, it will have to continue to train its citizens and we will not be able to devote our resources to more than what they have been created for, although, yes, within the overall architecture and working in a balanced and synergistic way within the policy of territorial cohesion.
mr president, commissioner, i would like cohesion policy to continue to be the greatest expression of intra-community solidarity from 2013 onwards. i would like cohesion policy to be a genuine response to the crisis and to the post-crisis and, to this end, it is essential that it be integrated into the 2020 strategy and, specifically, into the challenge of job creation. cohesion policy needs to be more participatory and civil society needs to be more involved in the design and management of projects. it is important that you in the commission see cohesion policy as an investment policy and not a spending policy, an opportunity to build confidence and sustainable development. i would like cohesion policy not to forget the specific needs of the most disadvantaged social groups. this is not incompatible with an integrated approach and a more strategic approach, which invests in sectors of the future. in short, as we have said many times, we need a cohesion policy that is solid, well-funded and present in all regions of the european union.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the working party headed by the chairman of the committee on regional development, which has made this debate possible today. we all certainly agree that cohesion policy is the key to achieving the objectives of strategy 2020, and also to achieving european integration and achieving the much-needed economic, social and territorial cohesion as set out in the lisbon treaty. what we have to do from now on, in my view, is to see where we have failed and improve what we have done so far. we all agree that the process must be much more flexible; there must be less red tape; controls must be simpler; and regions with specific difficulties, such as islands, mountain areas, cross-border regions and the outermost regions, must be given specific treatment. gdp must remain the main criterion, although other indicators may be used in other decision-making processes, and the role of regions and local authorities must be central. well, i guess we're all in agreement on that. we are going to go down that road, but the commission should make it clear to us which road we are going to take, whether this or that, whether we are going to have the same budgets, something absolutely necessary so that no one is left behind and so that all the regions can move forward in innovation, competitiveness, development, income and progress, especially at a time of crisis when clarity is needed more than ever.
mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to take part in a debate which is of great interest to those of us who come from and live in island territories, such as the canary islands in my case. i am doing so in line with my participation in the debate on regional policy, in the implementation of article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which took place recently; i will do so only to underline three points. firstly, to underline that this debate on cohesion policy, in its economic, social and territorial aspects, must be consistent with the financial perspectives defined for 2014-2020. not in spite of the crisis, but precisely because of the crisis, the objective of cohesion is more important than ever. secondly, to emphasize that cohesion policy is not a sectoral policy but a transversal one, which means that the regional dimension of cohesion policy cannot be considered a specific sectoral policy but must go through energy policy, transport policy, and also communications and innovation policy. and thirdly, to underline that this is particularly important for island territories, which are 'all of them' the external border of the european union and are therefore very sensitive in their security dimension to illicit trafficking and the threats posed by globalisation.
mr president, it is well known that territorial cohesion and the economic and social prosperity of the member states and their regions require communication networks which facilitate and enable the real and free movement of people, goods and services across borders; networks which ensure greater coherence between mobility systems, greater coherence between the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion and the planning of transeuropean networks, which are often ignored or run in parallel without ensuring the necessary inertia. but so far, the european policy on transeuropean networks has been met with a lamentable and glaring lack of funding, both from the european union and the member states, especially in the cross-border sections, which everyone considers no-man's land. it is true that in those member states where efforts have been made to coordinate these two policies, a multiplier effect has been achieved, which has brought regions and peoples and their citizens out of their historical backwardness and into the cohesion we all want. the great objective of reducing disparities, of bringing regions and citizens closer to our area of prosperity and well-being through better communication channels, therefore requires that the post-2013 debate be accompanied by a serious reflection on the urgency of securing sufficient funding for the trans-european networks once and for all.
mr president, i voted in favour of this initiative to denounce the massive violation of human rights and the use of rape against women, children and infants as a weapon of war; to call for accountability for those involved; to demand more commitment from the united nations in the face of the failure of the actions of monusco; to call for the need for a political solution to the armed conflict, through the resumption of dialogue on the peace process; and to demand from the great lakes region a greater commitment to promote peace and stability in the region.
in writing. − the draft regulation is intended to ensure that third-country nationals who are legally resident within the eu and are in a cross-border situation concerning at least two member states are subject to the same rules for coordinating social security entitlements as eu nationals under the revised rules now represented in regulation (ec) no 883/2004 and its implementing regulation (regulation (ec) no 987/2009). when the commission proposal was first introduced, the european parliament was consulted and agreed two amendments, replacing references to the charter of fundamental rights and also pointing to a high standard of social protection as an objective of the european union, present in the existing regulation no 859/2003. both these amendments have been incorporated into the position of the council at first reading of 26 july 2010 as recitals 4 and 7. the council is proposing a small number of amendments: it has included some recitals relating to the participation of certain member states under the proposal’s legal basis of article 79(2)(b). (recitals 17, 18, 19.) regrettably, denmark is not participating in the coordination arrangements for third-country nationals. ireland has opted to participate but the uk has chosen not to participate and will therefore continue to operate the existing rules.
in writing. − although the vote was secret, i have no problem in acknowledging that, as lazaros stavrou lazarou fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286(1) of the treaty on the functioning of the eu, we have delivered a favourable opinion on his nomination as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − although the vote was secret, i have no problems in acknowledging that, as gijs m. de vries fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286(1) of the treaty on the functioning of the eu, we have delivered a favourable opinion on his nomination as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i support this initiative to help people who have been made redundant in the 82 companies in galicia to have the possibility of re-entering the labour market. this in no way replaces the responsibilities incumbent on companies under national law or collective agreements.
in writing. − with this important vote the ep asks the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf. it recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. it emphasises the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market. it stresses that, in accordance with article 6 of the egf regulation, it should be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment. it reiterates that assistance from the egf must not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor measures restructuring companies or sectors.
in writing. − with this vote the ep refuses to grant the director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of the college’s budget for the financial year 2008.
in writing. − today’s vote clears the way for the belated but very welcome inclusion of bosnia and albania in the eu’s visa-free travel scheme. it will clearly give a boost to their citizens, giving them the same rights and privileges as their neighbours. the council should now move swiftly to approve their inclusion. however we are concerned about the reluctance of some member states, notably france, to do so. bosnia’s and albania’s compliance with the eu criteria for lifting the visa requirement is actually better now than serbia’s and maceconia’s at the time they got visa-free travel one year ago. if the council fails to follow the position of the european parliament and european commission, it would be a completely wrong signal to send to the citizens of bosnia and albania.
in writing. − i hope the main actors in the field will take note of what we have just voted. we strongly condemn the mass rape and other human rights violations which took place between 30 july and 4 august on at least 500 women and children in north kivu province by the democratic forces for the liberation of rwanda (fdlr), a hutu rebel group, and the mai mai militia, as well as those in other regions of north and south kivu. we call on all actors to step up the fight against impunity and for an immediate end to the violence and human rights abuses in the drc, particularly in north kivu. we stress the need for further efforts to put an end to the activity of local and foreign armed groups in the east of the drc. we also call on the un and the drc government to conduct an impartial and thorough investigation of the events, to ensure that those responsible for breaching human rights and international humanitarian law are held responsible and prosecuted in conformity with congolese and international law.
in writing. − once again the ep reiterates its long-standing opposition to the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances and emphasises once again that abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights. it condemns all executions wherever they take place and strongly calls on the eu and its member states to enforce the implementation of the un resolution on a universal moratorium on executions with a view to total abolition in all states which still practise the death penalty. it calls on the council and the commission to take action in order to progressively restrict its use while insisting that it be carried out according to international minimum standards. it expresses its deep concern regarding the imposition of the death penalty on minors and on persons with mental or intellectual disability and calls for their immediate and definitive ending.
in writing. - the resolution adopted today by parliament on eu action in the exploration and extraction of oil in europe is of great importance to me in view of the consequences in the gulf of mexico. as a member of the itre commission, i must point out that offshore oil and gas production is important for the security of supply in the eu. such production is not carried out under such extreme conditions as in the gulf of mexico. however, all precautions are inadequate. that is why we must work in the field of prevention to have updated legislation that is applied effectively and preventing natural disasters from occurring. however, we cannot ignore the fact that this type of extraction and production always involves risks, so we must also think about building a real capacity to respond to possible accidents such as the one in the gulf of mexico. parliament's resolution is a step in the right direction, as it encourages progress within the eu in both prevention and response.
in writing. the risks of serious accidents in eu waters are high and europe is simply not equipped to deal with the devastating consequences of such an accident, as the commission itself acknowledged during the consultations. the exploration of offshore drilling has increased exponentially, so the risks have also increased, but the safety remains largely inadequate. in this context, only a temporary moratorium on all new offshore drilling in eu waters would have reduced the risks, while sending a strong signal about our dependence on fossil fuels. so again, we will have to rely on the little credit and confidence we can have in the oil industry.
in writing. − although our first intention was to support the text, amendment 1 to paragraph 16, tabled by the epp group and the ecr group, finally led our group to abstain.
in writing. − the report sets out the ep position regarding the forthcoming revision of international standards and guidelines on capital and liquidity requirements for the banking system which are being adopted by the basel committee (the international forum established by central banks and supervisors of the banking sector), as well as the g20 commitments on this matter. these standards are supposed to be transposed and adapted to the eu legal framework through a revision of the capital requirements directive (crd). a commission legislative proposal is scheduled during the first quarter of 2011.
in writing. − the report deals with the absence of health insurance in sub-saharan africa, which penalises the majority of the population in obtaining access to health care. those who have health care are the people who can afford it. the big majority of the population of sub-saharan africa, particularly in rural areas, is unable to afford heath care or drugs, even of the generic kind, despite ngos and other government programmes providing services. so the main message of the report is to put in place health insurance, based on a solidarity system, to allow the population to have access to heath care. in this respect the report calls on the commission to support and encourage a health insurance system by bringing together public authorities, all stakeholders and donors.
in writing. regional cohesion policies aim to ensure the best possible welfare conditions for the population. to measure them in a relevant way and to better support decision-making on the allocation of eu funds, the european union needs social and environmental indicators in addition to gdp. economic growth is no longer the only criterion for decision-making. cohesion policy is an expression of solidarity between the european territories. its decentralised management is the most effective way of responding to the realities and specific needs of the territories, and in doing so adds a much-needed added value to national employment policies. that is why we are firmly opposed to any plan to renationalize the management of the european social fund. this should not be the only option to give the fund more weight and visibility.
in writing. − we have supported the text which, among other things, notes the key role played by the european social fund (esf) in improving employment and job opportunities, promoting the adaptation of workers’ skills to the demands of the labour market, and workers’ integration into the labour market, and reinforcing social inclusion. it draws attention to the four employment guidelines adopted by the european parliament and welcomes the fact that the objectives include promoting employment and combating poverty in the context of integration/reintegration into working life through training. it also emphasises that substantive progress towards achieving the europe 2020 targets and objectives, in particular in the field of employment and social affairs, is essential if the strategy is to be credible.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the position to take a decision on the matter. that is why the president said in his first speech that the council representatives would be late because of the traffic jams. the bottlenecks have a name and that is the general strike, which our group hopes will be a success and will allow the rectification of these anti-social policies throughout europe. i would like to thank my colleagues for their work, but i would also like to say that unfortunately our group will abstain tomorrow, not vote against it, but we will not be able to vote in favour, because we understand that what we wanted, a thorough review by this house of the foreign service, has unfortunately not been achieved and, of course, it has not been possible to change it, because it was not the subject, the structure, which does not convince us, a structure which assumes the responsibilities of security and foreign policy. in the national parliaments - at least in mine - we have fought a very important democratic battle for total control of security, so that even any sending of troops abroad has to be subject to exhaustive parliamentary control. we are therefore far from that control and for those reasons we shall not vote in favour tomorrow. anyway, i'll just end by thanking you for the work you've done.
madam president, we all agree that the foreign service is a historic opportunity for european construction. but this requires a great outlook, because this is not the time for internal struggles over resources that are transferred or withheld in the short term, or for wars between the various european institutions. what is needed now is a general vision of what the european union should be in the world, in other words, the exact opposite of what happened a few days ago at the nobel peace prize ceremony, when too many voices were heard from europe, and not all of them were courageous. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the council for their efforts to reach an agreement. i think it was an important step forward and the recognition that the treaty of lisbon gives to this parliament and to the committee on fisheries in particular, and i think it will be a decisive step for future agreements on fisheries matters to be made by means of codecision. this is what i would highlight about this agreement.
madam president, this agreement will also mean a fight in defence of fishermen, a fight against illegal fishing, control measures - which are what should govern fisheries policy - and another step towards sustainable fishing. this will also mean a higher level of control, a defence also of fishermen and the sector at european level, and i am therefore very pleased to have reached this agreement.
madam president, i have approved this initiative because when we talk about precarious work, we are talking, once again, about the inequality and discrimination suffered by women in europe. the economic crisis has increased inequality because it has affected the lowest-paid jobs, those occupied mainly by women and dedicated to domestic work and care, and which represent, according to the studies, "including part-time work" 31.5% in the business sphere. the difference in pay is also having an impact at european level and precariousness is also affecting the jobs of women with higher education. the lack of co-responsibility between women and men, also in the family sphere, is one of the reasons for this precariousness and discrimination. we must work to have quality services for childcare and care for the elderly, and to enable women to enter the labour market under better conditions. it is also worth noting that immigrant women are replacing the workforce of european women so that we can gain access to the labour market. in short, we must continue to work for true equality.
in writing. − the purpose of this text is to amend directive 2009/42/ec to make the collection of data by type of goods compulsory for maritime transport statistics. currently, 18 member states collect this data on a voluntary basis. five member states have no coastline and do not provide the data required by that directive. in most cases, the collection of the relevant data will not impose any additional burden on those providing it, as the member states concerned should be able to compile the data using existing sources of information (such as customs documents). the collection of data by type of goods is already mandatory for european statistics on road, rail and inland waterway transport. european statistics on all modes of transport must be compiled according to common concepts and standards, in order to achieve the fullest possible comparability between modes of transport, which is why i voted in favour of the text. the availability of complete and homogeneous statistics by type of goods for all modes of transport would provide a useful general framework for supporting and monitoring policy promoting commodity.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council is to amend directive 2009/42/ec in order to make the collection of data by type of goods mandatory for maritime transport statistics. these data are currently collected on a voluntary basis by 18 member states. five member states have no maritime coast and do not provide any data under that directive. for the most part, the collection of the relevant data will not impose any additional burden on respondents as the member states concerned should be able to compile the data by using already existing data sources (for example, customs documents). the greens/efa have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the 951 redundancies in 45 enterprises operating in nace division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) in the nuts ii region of north jutland. the egf provides additional support for workers who suffer the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and for their reintegration into the labour market. denmark has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector in accordance with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − with this vote, the ep takes note of the fact that denmark has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 951 redundancies in 45 enterprises operating in the nace rev. 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) sector in the nuts ii region of nordjylland. the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the egf regulation. in its resolution, the ep requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; and emphasises the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers who made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the 512 redundancies at nxl semiconductors netherlands, which operates in the electronics sector in the nuts ii regions of gelderland and eindhoven. the egf shall provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and for their reintegration into the labour market. the netherlands has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector in accordance with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − whereas the union’s financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint declaration of the european parliament, the council and the commission adopted during the conciliation meeting on 17 july 2008, and having due regard for the iia of 17 may 2006 in respect of the adoption of decisions to mobilise the egf; whereas the netherlands has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 512 redundancies in nxl semiconductors netherlands operating in the electronic sector in the nuts ii regions of gelderland and eindhoven, whereas the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the egf regulation, the ep requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; and emphasises the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market;
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to 839 redundancies at qimonda ag, a multinational company active in the electronics sector in the nuts ii region of the north. the egf shall provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and for their reintegration into the labour market. portugal has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector in accordance with the fund's own regulation. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − portugal has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 839 redundancies in qimonda ag, a multinational firm operating in the electronic sector in the nuts ii region of norte. the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the egf regulation. the ep has voted in favour of calling on the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf. it recalled the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. it emphasised the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market;
in writing. − support the granting of aid of eur 2 752 935 from the egf for catalonia as additional support for the 1 429 workers made redundant in the 23 motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing companies as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns and whose redundancies occurred within a nine-month period from 23 february 2009 to 22 november 2009. the aim of this aid is to support the integration into the labour market of redundant workers who in 25% of cases have no basic education or have dropped out of school and in 40% of cases have only basic education. of these, about 75% are male and 25% are over 55 years old. such aid should in no case replace the responsibilities of firms under national law or collective agreements, nor measures to restructure firms or sectors. as the report by the committee on budgets says, it will be necessary to clarify the reasons why 23% of workers are not included in the profiling and to know what measures are offered to those workers in particular.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the autonomous community of catalonia, in particular for the 1 429 redundancies in 23 enterprises operating within the framework of nace division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii region of catalonia. the egf shall provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them re-enter the labour market. spain has submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in the automotive sector in accordance with the fund's rules of procedure. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − spain has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 1429 redundancies in 23 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semitrailers) sector in the nuts ii region of cataluña. the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the egf regulation. as a catalan i am glad that parliament agreed to call on the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf, and to recall the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. parliament also emphasised the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market;
in writing. - the european parliament has stressed on several occasions that full priority should be given to measures to combat illegal, unreported and undocumented fishing implemented by regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo). the rapporteur therefore considers that the control and enforcement regime adopted by the napec should be rapidly incorporated into eu law. council regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing ('iuu regulation') entered into force on 1 january 2010. council regulation (ec) no 1006/2008 on the authorisation of fishing activities of community fishing vessels outside community waters and the access of third country vessels to community waters provides that eu fishing vessels are required to hold a fishing authorisation in order to carry out fishing activities outside eu waters. i therefore voted in favour of the fraga report because i believe that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing must be controlled.
in writing. − the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north east atlantic fisheries, to which the eu is a contracting party, was approved by council decision 81/608/eec and entered into force on 17 march 1982. control and enforcement measures can be adopted to ensure that this convention and the recommendations adopted by the north east atlantic fisheries commission (the ‘neafc’) are implemented. these are applicable to all fishing vessels used or intended for use for fishing activities conducted on fishery resources in areas defined in the convention. the aim of this proposal is to update eu legislation transposing neafc’s control and enforcement scheme. to allow the new neafc scheme to be implemented, the proposal envisages the subsequent repeal of council regulation (ec) no 2791/1999 of 16 december 1999, which implemented the first scheme adopted by neafc in 1998.
in writing. the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries was signed in ottawa on 24 october 1978 and entered into force on 1 january 1979 after the instruments of ratification, acceptance and approval of seven signatories were deposited with the government of canada. the primary objective of nafo is to contribute, through consultation and cooperation, to the optimal use, sound management and conservation of fishery resources in the nafo convention area and to foster ideas for international collaboration to improve the sustainable management of marine resources on the high seas on a scientific basis. the contracting parties to the convention adopted the 'amendment to the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries' at the 2007 (english version) and 2008 (french version) nafo annual meetings. the amendment is a comprehensive revision of the convention with the essential aim of bringing it more into line with other regional conventions and international instruments and incorporating modern fisheries management concepts into it, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries was signed on 24 october 1978 in ottawa and came into force on 1 january 1979 following the deposit with the government of canada of the instruments of ratification, acceptance and approval by seven signatories. the priority objective of nafo is to contribute through consultation and cooperation to the optimum utilisation and rational management and conservation of the fishery resources of the convention area nafo and the promotion of ideas for international collaboration to improve the sustainable management of marine resources in the high seas based on the scientific research fundamentals. the contracting parties to the convention adopted the, “amendment to the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries”, (the amendment) at the annual meetings of nafo in 2007 (english version) and in 2008 (french version). the amendment revises the convention comprehensively with the primary purpose of making it more in line with other regional conventions and international instruments and of incorporating modern concepts on fisheries management.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the thomsen report, which deals with the problem of women's precarious employment, as i am concerned that they are being particularly hard hit by the consequences of the economic crisis, which has been exacerbated by precarious jobs, in which the majority of workers are women. i support this motion for a resolution because it is necessary to go further in the fight against direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of sex. there is currently an excessive presence of women in precarious work, who often have to combine these jobs with domestic work. my support is based on my commitment to change the current unfair situation in which women have fewer opportunities to access employment, are in the majority in the most precarious jobs and continue to receive less pay than men for the same work. i therefore give my vote to this motion for a resolution which, among other things, stresses the need to ensure gender equality, reduce gender segregation in the labour market and calls on the member states to combat undeclared work by transforming it into formal employment.
in writing. − this was a crucial report and i am glad the ep has adopted it, mainly because it points out the gendered nature of precarious employment and recalls the shift in the labour market from standard to non-standard types of employment, making it necessary to prevent non-standard types of employment from becoming precarious work; considers that, in order to combat these problems, the member states and social partners must be asked to align to a large extent their legislative and contractual rules on standard work and atypical work, so as to prevent the most convenient and least expensive forms of work from taking precedence, taking into account however the risks of a possible increase in undeclared work; and urges the council and the commission to identify the characteristics of precarious employment in the guidelines for the member states’ employment policies and in the new gender equality strategy.
the following is the joint debate on- the report by sidonia elżbieta jędrzejewska and helga trüpel, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011 - all sections and amending notes no 1/2011, 2/2011 and 3/2011 to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011 ((a7-0284/2010), and- the report by lászló surján, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, no 3/2010, section iii commission map (bananas accompanying measures) ((a13472/2010 - c26-07/2010 - 2010/203 - 2010/2048 (bud)) (a7-0281/2010)).
member of the commission. − mr president, this is the first budget under the lisbon treaty, as mentioned by the rapporteur, and it is provoking understandable interest due not so much to the figures in the budget but to the institutional dimension attached to the annual budgetary procedure. we welcome of course parliament restoring the general level of the draft budget both in commitments and in payments – i.e. the gap of almost eur 8.62 million in commitments and around eur 3.6 million in payments between the parliament vote and the council vote. according to the revised forecast, we are almost sure that our programming was right, that the special cohesion funds are moving at cruising speed at this point of the financial perspective and the bills are to be paid next year, so we are restating our forecast for 2011. having said that, i would also like to draw your attention to the need to restore the draft budget for the agricultural clearance of account. maintaining the cut would effectively leave part of the forecast for agricultural expenditure uncovered. we also welcome the amendments by parliamentary committees in this respect. the line taken by parliament, as indicated by rapporteur jędrzejewska, is very clear. this is on horizontal amendments and political priorities placed in the forecast in heading 3b on youth and youth mobility. other amendments above the draft budget are also proposed and some of them could be implemented if there were a legal base. we will send our letter of executability on both these amendments and also on the pilot projects and parliamentary preparatory actions that were voted in parliamentary committee. we regret that a significant number of reserves have been inserted by the parliament. both the size of the reserves on salaries (eur 75 million of which eur 41 million are not related to the 1.85% salary adjustment) and the number of conditions attached to them – sometimes not even related to staff issues – are worrying. we are doing our best to meet the conditions and the reserves could be lifted at the latest during the conciliation. finally, the commission appreciates parliament’s approach not to go above the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. this has been done at the cost of some cuts for iter, for example, where we need more money and not less, and for external actions were we need more money and not less. i see this as an invitation to debate and it will be settled at the moment of conciliation of the global package. i refer also on this occasion to amending budget no 3, already discussed by rapporteur surján. this is about banana accompanying measures and so far the parliament rapporteur has reconfirmed the position of parliament which is very distant from the position of the council. the council is for redeployment, parliament is for the greater use of flexibility instruments, but here again, the credibility of our institutions vis-à-vis the acp countries is at stake. we should therefore look for compromise in the coming conciliation process. as usual, the draft budget will be accompanied or is already accompanied, apart from the amending budget for this year and the amending budget for bananas next year, with an amending letter on the external action service, an amending letter on the new supervisory agencies which are already politically agreed, and tomorrow the commission will adopt and transmit to parliament an amending letter which is the usual updating of estimates for agriculture and fisheries agreements. finally, i know that the institutional dimension should play a big role in the forthcoming conciliation. we owe it to our citizens to compromise and to prove that the lisbon treaty is working to their advantage in clearing up differences using the complex machinery of the european union. so i am going to play the role of honest broker in anticipation of the final agreement.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to apologize for the slight delay due to the traffic problems we have all been experiencing. i have therefore heard the commissioner's conclusion. i have also been informed of the rapporteur's speech. it is true that i shall here, of course, confine myself to giving you the main lines of the council's position, and it is of course within the conciliation procedure, which should take place in the event that your assembly votes on all the amendments - you never know - that we shall be able to refine all the political positions. i shall therefore speak in the light of parliament's amendments and the amendments which parliament is about to vote on. i will nevertheless take this opportunity to share some preliminary reactions and also to recall the council's concerns in the context of this 2011 budget procedure. i would first like to emphasize that this budgetary procedure is taking place in the context of the economic crisis and, even if the european budget can and must help to overcome the crisis, we must of course not lose sight of the significant budgetary constraints on our national budgets. this obviously calls for a great deal of control over expenditure. it is in this context that the council attaches the greatest importance not only to respecting the ceilings for the various headings of the multiannual financial framework but above all to maintaining sufficient margins to be able to cope with unforeseen situations. in this connection, the council appreciated the restraint which the commission had shown in its draft budget as regards commitment appropriations. but we are obviously much more concerned that the european parliament's amendments would considerably reduce certain margins. the council also regrets, of course, the increases in the level of payment appropriations which parliament intends to vote on, and even more so when this level of appropriations exceeds the commission's draft budget. the level of payment appropriations must be sufficient but not overestimated and obviously taking into account past implementation and actual needs for 2011. it is essential to avoid giving the wrong signal in the context of the recovery of public finances in the member states. and i would remind you that within the council, the difficulties faced by the latter have only allowed a very small majority to find a balance point on a rate of increase in payment appropriations of 2.91% compared to 2010. now i would perhaps like to draw your attention in a more specific way to some more specific points. the council has noted the european parliament's intention to keep the ceilings for the various headings of the multiannual financial framework below the ceilings, but it cannot accept that the approach taken with regard to commitment appropriations should be to the detriment of important programmes, particularly under heading 1a, which concerns competitiveness for growth and employment, and also to the detriment of matters falling under heading 4 which covers the european union as a global actor. in this connection, let me express my surprise at the european parliament's proposed reduction in the appropriations for the common foreign and security policy at a time when all efforts are being concentrated on the rapid establishment of the european external action service. the council also expressed surprise at the reduction in the iter project's funding in 2011, while efforts are being made to find ways to deal with the project's financial difficulties in 2010, 2012 and 2013. the council has, however, taken note of the european parliament's priorities in terms of youth, education and mobility, and does not rule out dealing with these priorities in the context of a global agreement. proposals will be made in future discussions. as regards payment appropriations, i would like to express the council's concern about the real absorption capacity under heading 1b, as regards cohesion for growth and competitiveness. if the european parliament's amendments restore the draft budget and thus increase the appropriations even further, questions may well arise as to the absorption of these various appropriations. i would like to stress that the council has agreed to a 14% increase in payment appropriations, after careful consideration of the commission's proposals and taking into account the best basis, namely the rates of implementation of appropriations for 2010. i would like to raise one last point concerning the european parliament's intention to create eight new budget lines without appropriations for expenditure on the one hand, relating to the implementation of the lisbon treaty, and on the other, revenue relating to own resources. i do not think that the 2011 budget is the most appropriate place to translate into the budgetary system the conclusions of important debates and the difficult decisions we will have to take for the future financing of the european union when negotiating the next multiannual financial framework. it is a long and complex debate which cannot be resolved in the next few weeks within the relatively narrow framework of the 2011 budgetary procedure. but i note, however, in a rather understandable and, in fact, quite classic way, in view of the new powers of parliament, that various other issues are attached to the political discussion on the 2011 budget. some are directly linked to the budgetary context for this year or for subsequent years, by the end of the 2007-2013 multiannual framework. this includes the iter dossier, the completion of the process of adopting the rules for the operation of the multiannual framework and the provisions of the lisbon treaty, and we must reach agreement on both of these. the commission has made proposals, and the council has largely accepted them. he will shortly be discussing a proposal from the presidency on the sensitive issue of flexibility, which i consider to be a necessary issue. on other points, such as the need to take advantage of this adjustment to increase the budgetary resources of the multiannual framework considerably to take account of the new responsibilities arising from the treaty, realism leads me to say that this will not be possible beyond the current level of funding for the member states. the way out of the crisis and national budgetary policies, which are largely influenced and supervised by the european union, do not allow this. other elements, as we know, will also be present in this negotiation. they will be highlighted in the commission's communication on the budget review. the council is by nature a body that listens, reflects and tries to provide answers. he will not, of course, adopt a different attitude in the course of this discussion. he'll listen to the proposals, form an opinion. then, of course, there will be a time to answer these questions and to make decisions. as the issues will be complex and will obviously involve considerable mechanisms and interests, it is known that the answers will not come in the context of the discussion of the 2011 budget but will come in the context of the debate on the next multiannual framework. but it is obvious that the council can be expected to take a number of initiatives on some of these issues or at least to be able to comment on them. i would simply like to conclude by stressing the importance of reaching agreement on the 2011 budget in the coming weeks. to this end, the presidency will continue to contribute actively to the excellent climate of cooperation that has prevailed so far, and i believe that it would be particularly damaging to the union's image with european citizens if we were not able to reach agreement on this first budget voted under the new lisbon treaty. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the work done by the rapporteur-general on the budget. and although the committee on foreign affairs has exercised restraint and is aware that appropriations under heading 4 are growing substantially above the average, we believe that they are insufficient to ensure a coherent, visible and effective foreign policy that is up to the ambitions set by the treaty of lisbon. and we are surprised that the council is surprised by some of the tactical cuts that parliament is proposing, given the importance of the cuts, both in terms of commitment appropriations and in terms of payment appropriations, that the council itself has introduced. i would like to thank the committee on budgets, represented here by its chairman, for having put the appropriations for the new posts in the european external action service into reserve. of course, mr president, this does not mean that we should not have a positive and constructive attitude, but it is clear that in the conciliation procedure parliament must be firm, very firm, in demanding its priorities, with the aim and purpose of actually - as the president-in-office of the council has just said - being able to produce a budget for the financial year 2011.
opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, i would like to speak briefly to give an account of the contribution of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to the budgetary debate of which this house is aware. and i will stress four points. firstly, the one concerning europol, because in the committee we have restored the budget of this agency, given the cuts proposed by the council, and we have also proposed an increase of half a million euro so that it can meet the responsibilities arising as a result of the entry into force of the tftp in its second version (the terrorist finance tracking program ii). secondly, we have asked for the appropriations in the reserve to be released and the proposed increase to be made available to the agency. we have also decided to put the appropriations for the second generation sis (schengen information system) in reserve, on condition that they are released once we have the necessary information on the steps to be taken in the future. we have also proposed the reinstatement of the appropriations for the three funds for immigration and integration, since we consider them to be of the greatest importance for the area of freedom, security and justice (european external borders fund, european return fund and european integration fund). and finally, we have also reinstated the budget for the eurojust agency, whose functions have recently been extended, since they are an essential instrument for the development of judicial cooperation in europe.
that is a good question, mr. rübig. the opinion of the committee on industry was not provided for in this report. i have here the list of all the committees which had to give an opinion and i do not see the committee on industry. we'll find out in any case, mr rübig.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the best budgetary policy is not one which spends more, but one which spends well (intelligently, as the commissioner says in his communication). i like the way the european commission has drawn up the 2011 budget, but it can be improved, and that is why mrs jędrzejewska, our rapporteur, has done an extraordinary job. i do not like, and have never liked, the way the council has approached a european budget. the commission's proposal is not a budgetary technique but a real financial butchery. we would also like to ask the council representative whether he has heard commissioner lewandowski speak about the need for payment appropriations. my group believes that a balance between budgetary austerity and european impulse is possible. it is clear that the socialist group does not believe that such a balance is possible and that is why it is tabled amendments which would break the budget ceilings and make war with the council inevitable. i therefore ask the house not to be party to this strategy and to give broad support to the rapporteur's strategy, which has already enjoyed majority support in the committee on budgets last week.
madam president, we are developing new policies, we are accepting new challenges, we are engaging with third countries, but when it comes to the truth they do not want to finance them with fresh money. and it seems that the council and the commission are saying: 'let us take care of these new priorities but cut back on the old ones'. we don't share that attitude. and i think there are only two possible explanations: either there is a lack of responsibility for the decisions that have been taken, or there is a more or less disguised anti-europeanism. i would tell the former that when one accepts a commitment then one must keep it. and so we cannot accept that the last need is the one that is met 100%, and forget about needs that seem to be less relevant. i would ask those whose only aim is to cut the budget of the european union to think twice. i know that some of you do this because you do not believe in the european construction. in fact, as we have unfortunately seen in this house, some do not like to build anything in common. they prefer to work for themselves, not caring about their neighbors. but, well, they're in the minority right now. in any case, we will have to take a decision in the conciliation committee and, in substance, we agree. we also want to finance iter; the question is how? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. we agreed and found 1.8 billion for the european economic recovery plan. and why do we now have to reduce the research framework programme to finance iter? let's be consistent here. we cannot just go around and announce a europe 2020 strategy, in which we seek economically, socially and environmentally sustainable growth, which wants to achieve what the lisbon strategy failed to achieve, and, as soon as we have explained the strategy, we cut, for example, research expenditure to finance other research expenditure. and they justify it by saying that we are in a time of cuts. but they cut the budget every year! the current financial framework was adopted in 2005 and we were in a period of economic boom! that is why we are now discussing a few hundred million euros: because of your lack of ambition in 2005 and not because we are in crisis. let us not be told that the treasuries of the member states are going to go bankrupt because of the effort we are asking for. i would just like to remind you that we are talking about a budgetary effort equivalent to 0.003% of the union's gross national product. i think it's pretty manageable.
member of the commission. − madam president, today the european commission has adopted its communication on the budget review to be communicated immediately, here in parliament, to the representatives elected by the people. this was originally foreseen for 2008-2009 but the chain of events – the late adoption of the lisbon treaty, the late appointment of the commission and then a new eu 2020 strategy – explains why this is taking place in october 2010. the budgetary review should be seen as an integral part of our reflection on how to make europe more competitive, dynamic, inclusive and sustainable. however, it cannot be separated from the political goals. this is politics in figures and, historically, there has always been a specific political context associated with the budgetary debate. in the past, this was about the single market, single currency and enlargement. we could wish for better political goals this time round, as there are clear new responsibilities stemming from the lisbon treaty. it is also clear that we need to find common european answers to common challenges in the areas of climate change, energy, security and migration. on the other hand, we have a eurosceptic europe and we have a eurosceptic post-crisis europe. there is a real tension – or even a contradiction – between both and we should solve this tension. we need consensus; we need unanimity on the next financial perspective. we should draw on experience, and this is part of the budgetary review. experience teaches us that we have to readjust the balance between predictability and flexibility. since its introduction in 1988, the financial framework has brought budgetary peace and predictability to europe, providing a reasonable time horizon for our regions, farmers and researchers to prepare and realise their projects. this is a real achievement. however, this predictability came at the price of very limited flexibility, and it has been revealed in the past how much we can be exposed to sudden developments. we can be proud of certain actions – the generous and swift reaction to the pakistan floods and to the problems in haiti – but generally we are slow. it took one year to mobilise money for the food aid facility. we are slowest internally, and quicker in rapid reactions to external challenges. the lesson therefore is that we need more flexibility. we need to be able to transfer funds and unspent margins more easily, undertake front- and back-loading. in the budgetary review, we propose fixed margins which are bigger at the end of the financial perspective, and also to establish performance-oriented reserves. another factor to be taken into account is of course the economic crisis, and the new functions of the budget intelligently targeted could serve as an anti-crisis small sectoral and local package. it could become collateral for loans beyond the balance-of-payments facility. it can act as a toolbox for reinforcing the stability and growth pact. i would like to mention one more factor of the budgetary review, and that is that the discussion of priorities is always overshadowed by the net balance, a juste retour type of approach to the budget which has to do with the complex revenue side of the european budget. however, an incentive to find a way out of this vicious circle would be if we had open reflection without taboos and where we could analyse not only spending, but also the revenue side of the european budget. as president barroso stated in his ‘state of the union’ speech, this is not a discussion about spending less or more, this is about how to spend more intelligently. the budgetary review provides a number of suggestions on how to generate european added value, how to establish the new legitimisation of the european budget. it has to be done. we are pooling resources at european level, allowing member states to cut their costs, avoid overlaps and get a better return on their investment. let us take research and infrastructure as an example. this can be done by addressing common challenges in a coherent and coordinated way, especially if there are cross-border implications which are typical in the case of energy, security, migration and climate change. it can be done by demonstrating solidarity in the case of natural or man-made disasters; and it can and should be done by delivering tools to allow us to act more forcefully on the global arena and make europe more visible as the largest donor (55% of total assistance). this is not enough. what we need – and this is also part of the budgetary review – is administrative expenditure self-restraint. we also need a much more professional management of large-scale projects and – this is the separate part of the annex to the budget review – the innovative financial instrument must go beyond the 1% by volume of the european budget. own resources is what makes most sense at the end of the day. (i am perhaps taking time from my final reflection.) it is so easy to criticise the present system as being unfair, complex, and contrary to the treaties, but it is also so easy to provoke unfounded accusations if we enter into discussions on this matter. it has to be said that the lisbon treaty clearly requires that the own resources decision be reached unanimously and it needs to be ratified by all member states. national tax sovereignty is not at stake. however, it is worth reflecting on having a system that is closer to the original design, a system that allows the european union to be more autonomous and allows the member states to consolidate their public finances by progressively reducing their direct contributions. we could start with the abolishment of this artificial vat delivery. we are listing six possible candidates: these are mentioned in the paper and quantified more in the annex, but nobody is perfect of course. this is not a replacement for the national contribution. it should be seen only as the supplement. the budget review is an invitation to, and the opening of, the hot budgetary season in the european union. i am looking forward to cooperating with the european parliament. this is our common responsibility to demonstrate that the european union is capable of responding to the challenges, and the budget – when intelligently targeting the goals – could be the tool for renewing confidence in our european project. thank you for your attention.
mr president, it would have been interesting if mr verhofstadt had also read the documents of the european commission instead of leaving the chamber. one of them tells us that this budget review has been delayed precisely because there was an agreement with parliament to do it once the treaty of lisbon had entered into force. but, well...! i am grateful to the commissioner for the communication he has presented to us, which is a good intellectual exercise on how the financial perspective has worked so far and how the next one should work. and thank you again for pointing out the weaknesses in these financial perspectives, in particular the scandalous inability of the present financial framework to respond to unexpected needs. i remind you that the only response that has been given so far when we encounter an unexpected need is to take money from agriculture to finance other things. this can't go on in the future. but, commissioner, while i recognize the difficulty of your present position in offering a review which cannot be confused with a review - and i recognize that this is indeed a brilliant exercise - i cannot resist the temptation to read aloud the memorandum accompanying the communication presented: 'the eu budget review: frequently asked questions'. what is the communication on the budget review? what is it not? why a budget review? three very elegant questions to explain the inexplicable: that in this communication, unfortunately, there are no figures.
mr president, the truth is that, as many colleagues have said, we were looking forward to the commission's communication. mrs haug said - and she is quite right - that many of us were optimistic about the results of this communication, and we were really hoping that a review of the current financial framework would be put on the table. i must say that i am rather disappointed in the document you have presented to us, because when we let you present this document while we waited for the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the europe 2020 strategy, it was because we wanted something more concrete, because, in truth, this general document could have been perfectly presented in 2007 or in 2008, i do not know why we had to wait. in any case, there is always something positive to be emphasized, and i think we can all agree that the debate on own resources should finally be brought to the table (you have seen that it is also being demanded by the european parliament, and we hope that the council - which is listening to this debate - will join us), so that we can emphasize that positive aspect.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for your comments. this is not only a coincidence of time and place; a clear link has been established in the debate between the budgetary review and the annual budget for 2011, or even banana accompanying measures. this is coming late, really late. speaking frankly, we are in the middle of the 2007-2013 financial perspective, with three years behind us and another three years ahead of us. thank you for your encouragement, and thank you for being ambitious about the next step, which is the presentation of the future financial perspective. thank you for being ambitious in discussing both sides of the budget, including own resources (mr daul, mr le foll, mr verhofstadt, mr böge, mr dehaene, mr abad, mr fernandes, mr kalfin, ms durant and mr la via). thank you for your encouragement to seek flexibility (mr garriga) and simplification (mr daul). mr eickhout asked the question on the position of the financial transaction tax or activity tax. there is a delicate hint in the annex that the preference is not for taxing movable operations which are easily subject to evasion, but rather corporations, i.e. activity transactions. we do not need to agree intercontinentally to avoid evasion. mr garriga and mr surján are disappointed about the figures. there is an annex which gives some quantification and also the impact assessment on cohesion. this is the main point which i had expected given my knowledge of parliament's position. this is not a revision of the figures for 2011-2013, as was claimed by mr böge, mrs gardiazábal rubial, mrs haug, mr dehaene and mr abad. we cannot simply make adjustments just like that. we need a legal base; we can adjust to lisbon and we can adjust to eu 2020 strategy on an annual basis. this is feasible and this is an exercise which is ahead of us for 2011, 2012 and 2013, but we cannot do it at one stroke by simply quantifying without a legal basis and introducing new requirements into the budget. we do not yet know what will come out of the agreement on iter and other large-scale programmes which should cost more up to 2013. you are disappointed, but this is my reply. as for agriculture, this is a balanced position. you know, mrs mcguinness, that there are more radical opinions of what should be done with agricultural spending. there is also a strong political defence. we are here to produce a balanced opinion, because at the end of the day it is all about compromise and we should have the final agreement of 27 countries. thank you once more for your comments.
mr lewandowski, you were always such a good parliamentarian defending the budget on our side. we hope that the experience you gained here will not be used against parliament, but rather in order to make consensus with parliament and we trust you in that sense.
member of the commission. - mr president, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou is asking me about cash. i would like to recall that the financial crisis has shown that banks with excess liquidity have refrained from lending on the interbank market because of the very cautious accumulation of liquidity for their own potential needs. and this problem has been compounded by a lack of understanding of the financial health of other institutions. the new liquidity requirements will, in my view, help to solve this problem of insufficient liquidity in the markets both by improving banks' liquidity risk management and by strengthening their liquidity reserves. the transitional provisions envisaged by the basel committee provide that the new liquidity coverage ratio will only become mandatory from 2015, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, which should give banks enough time to comply with it and reduce, i think, the adverse effects on the markets during the transitional period. mr. rubig, you were talking about basel ii. i would remind you that in the case of the united states, which you mentioned, basel ii has not yet been implemented, nor has basel ii and a half. during my first visit to the united states on 9 or 10 may, i actually reached an agreement, or found an agreement, with the american minister - i will meet him again next week - that the americans will implement basel ii and a half by mid-2011. mr rubig, your question is very important because it allows us to say that we are in an international commitment. the americans played an important part in the development of the basel standards. they are very much involved in the process and so it would be incomprehensible... i'm gonna put this in a more positive light. it is quite normal that decisions taken jointly should be implemented jointly, in parallel, and i am very attentive to this parallelism with the americans and i want to check it out in a few days' time, during my second visit. in general, as regards the impact on the large and smaller basel iii banks, we will carry out very careful, unadventurous macroeconomic and microeconomic impact studies and i will use all the flexibility to develop the right measures and the right decisions, the most calibrated. mr. zemke asked me about the schedule. what we are going to do, mr zemke, in the spring of 2011, is legislative texts, a draft directive, which will be called crd 4 and which will implement, after all these impact studies, after the study of the calibration of these basel measures, the macro and micro economic impact study, the calibration with other measures to which i am attentive and - i spoke about this earlier - external or internal supervision, the proper implementation of a risk prevention system in banks, and then the transatlantic calibration. i need a few months to do some serious work: listen to parliament, listen to the financial services actors and take the right measures, make the right proposals. it will be in the spring of 2011 with crd 4 and with these legislative texts.
member of the commission. − mr president, the question addresses very important issues. ensuring that every citizen has access to nutritious food is a main aim of development cooperation. reducing the proportion of hungry people by half is therefore, rightly, the first of eight millennium development goals that the global community promised to reach by 2015. food security will also remain a top priority for the european union in its relations with africa, where many countries are off track in reaching this mdg 1, where more than 70% of the population live in rural areas and where some 90% of agricultural production is carried out by smallholders on family farms. food security was already a priority of the first eu-africa action plan, within the partnership on the mdgs, and we will propose to maintain this as a priority area for the next action plan that is currently being drafted. we will also ensure that cross-sectoral aspects with direct links to food security such as research, trade and regional integration are given appropriate relevance in this next action plan. the european union’s focus on food security goes hand in hand with the importance that african leaders themselves have attached to agriculture and food security. the comprehensive africa agricultural development programme is the common framework for action in this area and we will continue to support this. having said that, i believe that we have enough mechanisms at this stage to care about nutritious food supply and that it is not necessary to introduce a new specific partnership for food security in the joint africa-eu strategy. as i have said, this dimension is already covered by the partnership on the mdgs among others.
mr president, thank you very much, commissioner, for your reply, which will be very useful in the run-up to the european union-africa summit. i would like to ask you if you can give us any further information on what kind of discussions there have been at the high-level meeting in new york on the millennium development goals with regard to food security, and whether the fao committee on food security has received the necessary impetus to coordinate the global effort to fight hunger.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, madam commissioner, when you made your famous enough is enough speech, many people in this house, but especially in the street, applauded. that created enormous expectations and expectations for all those of us who still believe in the european project. finally, someone in the commission dared to stand up to a strong state and on a subject, fundamental rights, which had always been the banner in discourse but not always in practice. we were a little surprised and it was not - let us say - well understood that when the procedure was initiated it was not done on the basis of discrimination but only on the basis of free movement. i think that this was somehow a deficit, but in any case we still applaud your commitment. that is why today's decision leaves us a little confused, and not only us but all these people who were hoping to see in this action of yours a courageous response. but we also know that on the other hand, this confidence you have in the french government has been more than proved to be, at least, questionable by the french government. but secondly, when we know that in the revision of the directive on free movement there are some worrying moves to introduce concepts, to reconceptualize the concept of itinerant groups, which would allow these groups to be criminalized again in some way. i think that this frustration that some of us feel today should not be fuelled any further. and so we ask that you please allow us to keep that hope that you have given us with your "enough is enough". because we still think that the problem exists and that it is necessary to confront the french government on this issue, as well as other governments.
madam president, madam commissioner, on 9 september this parliament adopted a resolution which triggered a timely and necessary debate. this parliament has done its job. there are those who think that, from the force of his subsequent statements 'in view of the request of this parliament' and from the explanations he gives tonight, what can be concluded is a disappointment because there is no procedure against france. it should be remembered that the debate was not about france, much less against france; it was a debate in favour of the fundamental principles of the european construction, such as the free movement of persons, because europe is not only free to move goods and capital, but above all free to move european citizens in full and without discrimination, and of course without discrimination on ethnic grounds. so if there is still something to be investigated in relation to the ethnic files that have not been fully clarified, it is still the commission's job. but we must remember that this work is not finished, because the work also includes this parliament's vigilance against the temptation of populism, which seeks scapegoats to point to when faced with the problems of social exclusion, and not solutions or answers. and this work also includes, in addition to confronting populism and its temptations, working for the integration of the excluded, the long-marginalised and, of course, the roma population. this parliament should host a conference on the integration of the roma community. and this parliament must say that this work is not finished, it has only just begun, and that we still have a long way to go, so that even if the proceedings against france are not finally opened, this debate will have made sense because it has proved to be timely and necessary.
opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. - mr president, thank you very much, mr martin, i have just a minute to tell you that i think europe has made extraordinary progress in economic governance in recent months. the summit between france and germany the day before yesterday has also opened the door to new hope: the possibility of revising our frameworks, our treaties on economic governance. i know that this is a matter which the member states were a little afraid of. but i think that we europeans know that to achieve the economic governance that we have to build, reforms are probably necessary, reforms that are agreed upon. but i sincerely believe that this agreement between france and germany provides an opportunity for the feio report, which we will then adopt - as proposed by the committee on constitutional affairs of this parliament - to reflect on the need to adapt our constitutional framework to a governance which is not just a stability pact. it is governance in depth, to bring economies together in a way that is competitive, creates jobs and produces the redistribution that we social democrats have always aspired to. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. − mr president, i do not usually intervene, but there is a point of order that i want to make. it is not the first time that mr farage has said when addressing me ‘you have not been elected’. i have certainly not been elected by you, but i have been elected by this parliament. (applause)i was elected by this parliament in a secret ballot, and you belong to this parliament. i consider that repeatedly saying that i, or the commission, have not been elected constitutes a lack of respect for the commission and for the parliament to which you belong. (applause)
mr president, let me see if i can bring some calm to this heated debate. it is regrettable that some of the g20 countries are still present at this forum, along with the european union. despite this anomaly, which certainly weakens europe's image in the world, it would be good if there were at least a global common position in this world forum. and what would that common position be, in my opinion? in my humble opinion, i believe that, firstly, we cannot delay the adoption of a global agreement to deal with the consequences of the crisis and adopt only a financial agreement; secondly, europe must keep the euro as a reference currency or, if you prefer, as an anchor, to avoid being dragged along by market turbulence and repeating the mistakes made throughout the 20th century; thirdly, the euro must be the herald of what europe should represent in the world of democratic values and public freedoms. in short, we must remember that in the global world, in this global game, the loser is the one who plays only his national cards.
mr president, the current financial crisis offers the opportunity to make clear headway in the process of european integration. i want to focus my intervention on the creation of a european common treasury for the eurozone countries. this would be a clear improvement of the institutional framework for european economic governance. i know that this is a very delicate issue for some countries, but we will have to deal with it in the coming years. the european treasury would improve the coordination of the stimulus policies implemented by member states. the european treasury would also be able to issue eurobonds to finance the construction of european infrastructures. the eu needs its own resources in the context of future diminishing budgets in the eu member states. a european common treasury collecting some taxes at european level would allow the reduction of national transfers to the eu. without real autonomy in income, there will not be real autonomy in expenditure. the creation of a european common treasury is a political decision. the sticking point in this discussion is the lack of political will or, to be more precise, the lack of political will on the part of germany. in the 1990s, germany had the political vision to push for the launching of the euro, despite the difficulties faced with its reunification process. in my opinion, germany should lead now and move towards a common european treasury.
mr president, it is impossible to follow the vote at the speed at which you are reading the amendments, i am sorry.
in writing. − the rangel report points out the most important achievements for the european parliament contained in the revised framework agreement with regard to the following: on “legislative procedure and planning: mutual cooperation” it includes improving the involvement of parliament, the review of all pending proposals at the beginning of a new commission’s term of office, taking due account of the views of the parliament, and the commitment by the commission to report on the concrete follow-up to any legislative initiative requests pursuant to article 225 tfeu. on “parliamentary scrutiny” it includes new rules of participation of commissioners in election campaigns, the commission’s obligation to seek parliament’s opinion when it intends to revise the code of conduct, and nominees for the post of executive directors have to come before the responsible parliamentary committees for a hearing, it also sets out the obligations to provide information and requirement for the commission to be present in parliament.
in writing. − the rangel report points out the most important achievements for the european parliament contained in the revised framework agreement with regard to the following: on “legislative procedure and planning: mutual cooperation” it includes improving the involvement of parliament, the review of all pending proposals at the beginning of a new commission’s term of office, taking due account of the views of the parliament, and the commitment by the commission to report on the concrete follow-up to any legislative initiative requests pursuant to article 225 tfeu. on “parliamentary scrutiny” it includes new rules of participation of commissioners in election campaigns, the commission’s obligation to seek parliament’s opinion when it intends to revise the code of conduct, and nominees for the post of executive directors have to come before the responsible parliamentary committees for a hearing, it also sets out the obligations to provide information and requirement for the commission to be present in parliament.
in writing. - i voted against this legislative resolution of the european parliament because the creation of the service to be financed represents a further step in the militarization of the european union's foreign policy. apart from my opposition to this militarist philosophy of external relations, my vote against is justified by the absence of the most basic principles of transparency and democracy in the whole process of setting up the european external action service. the composition and financing of this service do not reflect the necessary exhaustive control by the european parliament over staff and financing, and the eeas suffers from a worrying democratic and transparency deficit. it is therefore not surprising that the proposed structure for the eeas relegates the european parliament to a secondary and irrelevant role in the eu's foreign policy, which my group firmly rejects. i have therefore voted against. i cannot be in favour of the proposal for budgets for this type of service with a warlike tendency.
in writing. − it has been a bumpy ride but thanks to parliament’s efforts, the eu’s external action service now has the potential to be the driving force for a more effective and more legitimate eu foreign policy. we welcome that key green concerns – such as on gender balance and common training to create an ‘esprit de corps’ – have been largely addressed, and that parliament will have greater democratic scrutiny on the functioning of the eeas, notably through the introduction of individual budget lines for the eu’s major overseas operations. the ep also succeeded in safeguarding the community method and, thanks to green pressure, development priorities.
in writing. − we have adopted with a big majority the compromise package reflecting the green position, to which our group has substantially contributed.
in writing. - i voted against this legislative resolution of the european parliament because the creation of the service to be financed represents a further step in the militarization of the european union's foreign policy. apart from my opposition to this militarist philosophy of external relations, my vote against is justified by the absence of the most basic principles of transparency and democracy in the whole process of setting up the european external action service. the composition and financing of this service do not reflect the necessary exhaustive control by the european parliament over staff and financing, and the eeas suffers from a worrying democratic and transparency deficit. it is therefore not surprising that the proposed structure for the eeas relegates the european parliament to a secondary and irrelevant role in the eu's foreign policy, which my group firmly rejects. i have therefore voted against. i cannot be in favour of the proposal for budgets for this type of service with a warlike tendency.
in writing. − the setting-up of the european external action service (eeas) necessitates an amendment of the 2010 budget and of the proposed 2011 budget. a new section x has to be created in the budget and the 2010 budget has to be modified in order to provide 100 additional posts in the eeas establishment plan and a financial envelope for financing an additional 70 contract staff. the bulk of resources necessary will simply be transferred from the sections of the european council, council and commission. the prevailing feeling in the committee on foreign affairs (afet) is that the hr, baroness ashton, has not entirely lived up to the promises she made to the ep on the setting-up of the eeas. afet considers that the ep should be consulted on staffing priorities within the service (e.g. when it comes to geographical balances) and that the issue of gender balance would be better addressed in the recruitment procedure for the eeas. from a green/efa point of view, the fact that until now baroness ashton has not transferred the commission staff in dg relex dealing with peacebuilding and crisis response to the eeas is considered a major shortcoming, especially as the hr has given messages of assurance to the ep on this transfer.
in writing. − due to changing trade arrangements, notably the liberalisation of trade within the wto, the reduction of the preferential margin for acp banana-exporting countries has had a negative impact. the european commission proposes therefore to support the main acp banana-exporting countries by establishing banana accompanying measures (bam) with a budget of eur 190 million over 4 years (2010-2013). the objective of this assistance is to help acp banana exporters to launch adjustment programs. although the banana question is a longstanding issue, financing the bam remains problematic. the commission and the council did not integrate it into heading 4 of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2007-2013, and the committee on development considers that the proposal is not compatible with the ceiling for heading 4 of the mff and asks the commission to make substantial amendments or replace it with another text.
in writing. − this year’s budget debate again underlines the need to agree a meaningful system of own resources for the eu. the annual squabbling over the budgets between the european institutions leads to chaotic decision-making and creates an acrimonious diversion, which could be so easily avoided through an own resources system, such as allocating part of the revenue from an eu financial transaction tax, a tax on aviation fuel or a carbon tax to fund the eu budget. despite this, today’s vote broadly strikes a balance between responding to the extra demands created by the lisbon treaty, whilst limiting the growth in the eu budgets, in response to current budgetary difficulties.
in writing. - if, after the result of this vote, we had to give a title to the result of this initiative, it would be 'rebellion in the classrooms'. we were aware of the resistance that members of the various groups were maintaining in the run-up to the approval of the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks, the need to pay 100% of the salary to people in this situation, the extension of the measure in the case of disabled children or the inclusion of paternity leave. everything made me think they wouldn't pass, but they didn't. the indiscipline of many members in their own group lists has made the miracle possible. today the european parliament has lived up to the expectations of its citizens, men and women. it is also another step on the road to equality which we are still far from achieving, but which we must achieve together, men and women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the 'implementation of measures to promote the improvement of safety and health at work of pregnant workers, workers who have given birth or are breastfeeding and measures to support workers in reconciling work and family life' because i believe that strengthening women's rights at work is a real step towards gender equality in a field where unfortunately there are many barriers to this. the discrimination suffered by women in the workplace is very worrying, since in most cases it is they who have to take on the household work and reconcile it with professional employment. this situation is exacerbated in the months before and after childbirth, and greater protection is needed to avoid the current discrimination. i believe that the increase in maternity leave to a minimum of 20 weeks, interrupted before and/or after childbirth, with a minimum of six weeks compulsory after childbirth, is a step forward in the right of women to reconcile family and professional life.
in writing. - finally, this parliament has done some justice to working mothers in the european union, although not all that they deserve. it's been a long process. at the end of the last term we were on the verge of adopting in this parliament a text which would have been a giant leap forward for the rights of working women mothers. we could not vote because the epp and the liberals joined forces against her and decided to return the report to the committee on women's rights. after months of work, we have today voted again on a text which, although not as ambitious as the one previously rejected by the epp and the liberals, is significantly courageous: it allows women to keep their pay during the maternity period, strengthens their legal protection against dismissal, allows greater flexibility in working hours to better reconcile maternity with work, extends maternity leave to at least 20 weeks (although some of us would have liked it to be 24 weeks, as recommended by the who), facilitates the mobility of working women in the eu and makes progress, although not as much as some of us would like, in the co-responsibility of fathers.
in writing. − given that late payment is a phenomenon with numerous and interlinked causes, it can be only combated with a wide range of complementary measures. parliament therefore considers that a purely legalistic approach with the aim of improving remedies for late payment is necessary, but not sufficient. the commission’s “hard” approach with a focus on harsh sanctions and disincentives must be broadened to include “soft” measures with a focus on providing positive incentives to combat late payment. in addition, practical measures, such as the use of electronic invoices, should be encouraged in parallel with the implementation of the directive.
in writing. − this initiative aims to adopt a number of measures at european level to eliminate poverty and social exclusion. the crisis has worsened the situation of many people at european level, unemployment rates have increased, and in this context the situation of the most vulnerable people, such as women, children, young people and the elderly, is more precarious. that is why we need to take measures at european and national level, and minimum incomes are a good instrument to enable people who need them to live with dignity. but the ultimate goal is full integration into the labour market, which is what makes real social cohesion possible. in this respect, i hope that we can ensure that economic development is accompanied by social development and that we have a particular impact on the development of the social economy, as well as meeting the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty by 20 million.
in writing. - i have taken a position in favour of the european parliament's resolution 'the role of the minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in europe' as i share most of the requests and opinions contained therein, such as the need for the member states, the council and the commission to implement 'concrete measures to eliminate poverty and social exclusion' or that 'fighting poverty requires the creation of decent and lasting jobs for disadvantaged social categories in the labour market'. i believe that it is of great value to advocate the establishment of a minimum income in all member states which will enable all people, whether employed or not, to live in dignity. i have supported this resolution because it generally calls for greater state intervention in the face of the poverty suffered by millions of citizens. it calls on the member states and the european institutions to take concrete measures to ensure the decent reintegration of people in poverty into employment.
in writing with our proposal for a framework directive on minimum income, parliament had the opportunity today to provide europe with a key tool to combat poverty in practice and give every young person, every adult and every elderly person the right to an income sufficient to lift them out of poverty and finally live in dignity. it took political courage and boldness to end the unbearable scandal of perpetual poverty. but through its cowardice and lack of political coherence, the european right will bear the heavy responsibility for the failure of the eu 2020 strategy and will create even more disillusionment among our citizens and all the organisations that fight day after day for the weakest.
in writing. - the factors behind the current crisis have been diverse: speculative behaviour on financial markets, the development of domestic demand in recent years on the basis of consumer credit, among others. we have talked a lot about this in parliament for a number of reasons, but we need to look to the future. the future is part of the fulfillment of the content of this initiative. to do this, europe must overcome the problem of an ageing population. it must regulate, reorganise and supervise the union's financial market, improve its coordination and, with this strength, play an active role at the global level. it must take measures to strengthen coordination between the different levels of governance, define a new model of economic growth accompanied by human and social development, focus on european solidarity, improving competitiveness, quality, improving education, innovation, new technologies, knowledge. only then can we make europe a great opportunity for the world.
in writing. i am glad the report was adopted by an overwehlming majority but overall because the attempt by alde to weaken the paragraph on the financial transaction tax failed and the text based on our amendment, calling for the introduction of an ftt at eu level as a first step, passed.
in writing. - the current economic crisis has shown that the coordination of economic policy, the governance framework, the economic surveillance framework and the regulatory framework for financial services have all failed in the union. and all this has sown instability and decline in europe. and in this regard i would like to highlight and welcome the recommendations accompanying the proposal which are aimed at: establishing a coherent and transparent framework for monitoring macroeconomic progress in the union and in the member states and strengthening supervision; strengthening the rules of the stability and growth pact; improving economic governance; establishing a strong mechanism for the prevention and resolution of excessive debt in the euro area, and revising budgetary, financial and fiscal instruments. i would also like to stress that i fully support the improvement of the union's external representation in the field of economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. − the global economic crisis has challenged the current mechanisms of economic policy coordination in the eu and has revealed some of its weaknesses. the functioning of the economic and monetary union has been under particular pressure, due to earlier failures to comply with the underlying rules and given that existing surveillance and coordination procedures have not been comprehensive enough. this ini report intends to set out the position of parliament as regards the legislative package on economic policy coordination (six proposals, including four under codecision) released by the commission two weeks earlier. the council’s position is foreseen for the end of october through the final report of the van rompuy taskforce on economic governance.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 21 october 2010, at 12 noon.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on ukraine. mrs. ashton couldn't stay among us today. the case will be presented on his behalf by commissioner štefan füle.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for giving me this opportunity to react to what has been a very interesting debate indeed; my reply will focus on three points. first, let me respond to a concrete question by mr belder concerning the investment and business environment. more needs to be done in ukraine in this field. that is obvious, and i have raised this question a number of times, whether in the framework of the association council or in the framework of various meetings. the last time i had the opportunity to raise this issue was with prime minister azarov, just last week. there are a number of issues, such as the procurement law and the possibility of going back on this law through various amendments which are now being debated in the ukrainian parliament. more needs to be done as far as the rule of law is concerned, and of course we have watched with great interest the mittal case in recent days. more needs to be done to deliver on the commitment and promises made to deal with the vat issue, which is also an irritant for our businesses. through our contacts with the ukrainian authorities, and through regular contacts with businessmen, we are set to protect the interests of european investors and european businessmen. my second point is that it is not an easy process in which we are engaged with ukraine. this is a process where proclamations about the european future might sometimes be helpful, but will not deliver. what is going to deliver is building more of the european union within ukraine. they need our assistance. they also need us to give them a reality check from time to time. that is what they expect from us. what we do not need is to be pushed into a false debate about what is more important: stability or adherence and commitment to values, and that leads me to my third point. who am i to comment on the draft resolution before this house, but i think the very fact that this debate has happened has already given a valuable signal. i think the fact that this house’s representatives are going to ukraine soon, and will pass on most of these messages, conveys a very valuable message in itself. i think that another very valuable message in terms of what we should expect from the ukrainians is that the forthcoming local elections on 31 october will reconfirm the democratic stance of their country. i shall stop speaking now, if i may.
in accordance with rule 151 (1), i call mr gahler to speak on a point of order. i would ask you to be very brief and to stick to personal allusions.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 21 october 2010, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
madam president, commissioner, the floods in july and august of this year in pakistan have caused 1 800 deaths and affected 20 million people, 12.5 million of whom are in need of humanitarian aid. the european union has made a humanitarian effort of 320 million euros - as you said - and spain has contributed 11 million euros. it is not a trade agreement that is being discussed here, but helping pakistan's strategic development. the commission, under the mandate of the council, has liberalized 75 products over three years. it is clear that pakistan's exports will have different impacts in the various countries of the european union, taking into account the peculiarities of each country. the products that pakistan can export will be ethanol, textiles and leather products. the commission maintains that it cannot amend the lists of products which will be in conflict with textile production. spain accounts for 16% of turnover from the textile sector. the valencian community accounts for 18% of spanish textile production, and 17% of textile employment is in the valencian community. the market for the valencian textile sector is europe and, within europe, france, italy and germany. therefore, the fact that textile products are imported from pakistan reduces their market, both in europe and within spain. you said there was a strategic study, but has pakistan's industrial capacity been assessed? has it been considered to reduce the list of textile products? will there be an annual impact assessment of this agreement?
mr president, the regulation we are discussing today is of vital importance for the future of a sector, that of knife-making and related industries, which in my region - the land of quixote, specifically albacete - is not only the survival of more than eight thousand jobs but also an element of identity and a future commitment to the craft sector as a source of employment. the fact is that the "made in" stamp on knives has long been claimed by social groups such as aprecu and fought by the government of castilla-la mancha with the unanimous support of its regional parliament. a seal of origin which is not interventionism; it is a commitment to transparency in the rules of the commercial game and to the fight against unfair competition. it is to increase the decision-making capacity of consumers when choosing a product so that they take into account not only the final price of the product but also the quality mark of the place of origin or the social conditions in which it is produced. and above all, it will provide a new horizon of optimism for many people who are having a hard time, but who look at us today thinking that we have not been indifferent when it comes to promoting fairer trade, yes, but also to giving added value to those who, in addition to producing, do so while respecting the social rights and better conditions of european workers. i therefore thank the rapporteur and mr menendez del valle for their political support and social awareness of this important issue for my country.
naturally, we take good note of what he communicates to us. we express our solidarity and concern at this catastrophe in calabria, and clearly the whole of parliament feels solidarity with those who are suffering in that beautiful region of italy and europe.
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on the reforms carried out and developments in the republic of moldova.
member of the commission. − mr president, i very much appreciated this debate. i appreciate the timing of this debate and most of all i appreciate the overall clear unity of the message and support of this distinguished house. the republic of moldova is at a turning point in its history. the commission has been active in helping the moldovan government achieve as much as it can of its ambitious reform programme over the last year. the reforms that we support reflect without any exception the broad range of objectives of the eu-moldova action plan. the success of these reforms is crucial for the future of the republic of moldova. we have expressed our support of the vision of a modern and prosperous moldova with a society reconciled and its territorial integrity restored on many occasions, and not just on 30 september when the so-called group of friends referred to by mr watson visited http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/chi%c5%9fin%c4%83u" . there is no doubt that europe’s history has a lesson to offer here. the republic of moldova is on a positive trajectory. i am confident that the country will be able to reach the political compromise necessary to sustain the commitment to reforms. for our part, and as far as possible, we will all continue to stand by moldova’s citizens and provide the necessary external support to reforms. we will continue to support them to successfully pass sustainability tests through the forthcoming parliamentary elections. i too sincerely hope that after these elections we will see an inclusive political process in moldova centred on a pro-european agenda, continuing with the transformation process to the benefit of moldovan citizens and of europe too.
in order to close the debate, six motions for resolutions have been tabled to close this debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 21 october 2010, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on containers lost at sea and compensation by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-0115/2010 - b7-0469/2010).
mr president, this november it will be eight years since the oil tanker prestige, with 70 000 tonnes of crude oil on board, suffered an accident off the galician coast which opened a channel, or waterway, through which it had already lost 20 000 tonnes of fuel. and this initial course, together with the mistakes in the decisions taken by the then minister for development, mr álvarez-cascos, caused a total disaster and the greatest ecological, social and economic accident on the galician coast. one of the causes of the waterway problem was the presence of lost containers floating in the sea at the mercy of waves and storms, which can act as projectiles against the hulls of ships of all types, oil tankers such as the prestige, but also passenger ships, ferries or cruise ships. the results of the lashing@sea project show us serious deficiencies and neglect in the different areas, such as the lack of training and training and training by the cargo personnel, the dockers in the ports, and also the crew, always scarce, and poorly trained, who serve real sea monsters. on the other hand, too, there is a great lack of application of the best techniques for the securing and traceability of containers, often with excess weight. finally, there is a lack of cost/risk assessment in the face of the new physical effects of these sea monsters, for example the so-called 'parametric resonance effect' which can accelerate the subsequent fall of containers. we therefore call on the european commission to take immediate preventive measures, to provide more training, preparation and refresher for dockers and crews. also, the implementation of technological security measures, the control of weight in ports, the improvement of fastenings and stacking strategies, and also appropriate signage to have them located in case of loss because their traceability could be one of the services offered by the galileo project.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, one third of our citizens live on the coast. the european union is the world's leading maritime power. an integrated policy linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy will enable us to strengthen our leadership. but a comprehensive, cross-sectoral policy is needed that takes into account all the actors of civil society and the strategies and competences of local and regional authorities in coastal areas. we must continue to look to the coasts and the sea as an opportunity. and that is why we must strengthen the sustainable fisheries policy and integrate the difficulties of people living in the sea - a sector, by the way, very responsible. we must strengthen the security policy so that fishing vessels operating under european conventions can be protected, by fighting piracy and thus strengthening operation atalanta. we must make a clear commitment to a strategic sector such as shipbuilding, which is going through a difficult period because of competition from south-east asia and which is waiting for firm european support which they are lacking. we must develop the highways of the sea to reduce co2 and achieve greater development of renewable energies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. because we want to continue living with her, the sea.
i think that the rapporteur, mrs meissner, deserves to be congratulated. there were different positions, and she has found compromise solutions which allow us all to be together today on an important issue. ladies and gentlemen, the committee on transport has decided that all seas should be protected in a similar way. it claims that, if that were not the case, there would be a situation of unfair competition. we accept the majority's position in favour of a legal situation with uniform rules for the whole of the union, but i will not spare the honourable members the point that it also implies a certain lack of fairness. it is clear that the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel are the most polluted areas. and that, in my view, the controls on the sulphur limit values should be more rigorous in your case. the measures relating to ports must be viewed positively in terms of solutions to reduce transport times and handling costs. in any case, i will not tire of repeating that at this point we have a subject to deal with. if the ports do not undertake a decisive liberalisation of their activities, they will not be able to extend the central role they are supposed to play in the context of mobility. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a good one. i think this is a positive report that should be approved. but we cannot forget that it occurs in the context of a serious disaster, such as the gulf of mexico. the commission is also urged to consider whether, in the context of the review of the european maritime safety agency regulation, the role of the agency in oil spill prevention inspections and subsequent clean-up tasks should be strengthened. my personal opinion, madam commissioner, is that it does, and that those tasks should be reinforced by the mandate required for that purpose.
mr president, the integrated maritime policy is a transversal, regional and sectoral policy, and what must be included is fisheries and aquaculture policy, and this should not be subordinated to other policies. we all need to respond to environmental and economic problems, both for society in general and for the fishing sector: new technologies, fishing gear, development of species, a maritime economy plan to find more and better jobs, quality supplies, international relations that prevent piracy and promote the governance of our seas, that they have no barriers, and that they do not have sustainability problems as in the case of iceland. this would be to work for an integrated maritime policy, this would be to work for the environment and sustainability.
mr. president, thank you for your generosity. i would like to congratulate mrs meissner warmly on the excellent work she has done and on her ability to take on board the requests and amendments of her colleagues. i am particularly grateful for two amendments: the one calling on the commission to improve the working conditions of seafarers and to finally transpose the ilo convention on maritime labour into community law, and the proposal for a programme of qualification and training for seafarers which provides, in particular, for the recruitment of young people and the inclusion of third countries. and also the one in which we urge the commission to help the member states to put in place a plan for locating and mapping submerged archaeological remains and wrecks, since they are part of the historical and cultural heritage of europe - i come from spain, on whose coasts there are a large number of remains - in order to facilitate their understanding and study and to help prevent the pillage to which they are exposed, thus allowing their proper conservation. i believe that these two aspects, together with all the excellent proposals put forward by mrs meissner, will contribute to the creation of the new marine awareness that europe needs.
in writing. - my vote against this legislative resolution is based on my outright rejection of the stability instrument established several years ago without the support of my parliamentary group. in my view, this is yet another mechanism by which the commission freely interferes in the internal affairs of third countries under the pretext of seeking political stability in countries which are considered to be unstable on a discretionary basis. the european institutions should be free to decide, without the need to coordinate with the authorities of the country to be stabilised, how, when and why this instrument should be used, which makes it de facto a mechanism for the hidden defence of europe's own interests. i have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − with this vote, parliament has followed afet’s position in welcoming the commission’s proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council amending regulation (ec) no 1717/2006 establishing an instrument for stability (com(2009)0195), as part of a wider review of the external financial assistance of the eu. among other things, afet, and now parliament as a whole, agrees that a revision of article 3(2)(i) and article 4(1)(a) of the original regulation are necessary in order to bring it into line with the ruling of the european court of justice of 20 may 2008, which found that measures against the proliferation of small arms and light weapons may be implemented by the community under its development policy. the presidency, on behalf of the council and along with the commission and the parliament, is invited to develop a ‘declaration on a european consensus in support of eu action on salw’, which takes into account the respective competences of all institutions.
in writing. − parliament has closely scrutinised the way the provisions of the dci are implemented ever since it came into force in 2007. in the exercise of its right of scrutiny under the comitology procedure, parliament has raised a number of problems and objections regarding the way the commission implemented the instrument, and the interpretation it gave to some of its core provisions. parliament, however, did not find any major shortcomings in the provisions of the instrument as such. one of parliament’s major concerns, the propensity of the commission to finance under the geographical programmes measures not eligible, under the internationally accepted criteria of the oecd/dac, as official development assistance (oda), has recently been solved by the commission when it proposed, at parliament’s request, the creation of a new legal basis for such measures under the instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although it seeks to establish greater democratic control by the european parliament over the 'instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights around the world', the instrument itself, 'controlled or not by parliament', is a means of eu interference in the internal affairs of third countries. through this instrument, the commission, deciding on its own criteria what constitutes the promotion of democracy and human rights and what constitutes a risk, abuse or repression of these, has the possibility to fund and support at its discretion associations, political parties, foundations and even specific individuals from third countries without informing or coordinating with the government of the country in question. my negative vote is based on the outright rejection of this instrument which, four years after its adoption and as we announced at the time, has become a tool for the covert defence of eu interests in third countries, disguising this defence under the discretionary cloak of human rights and democracy.
in writing. − in its legislative proposal for the mid-term review of the development cooperation instrument (dci) and the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the commission only proposes one technical amendment allowing costs related to taxes, duties and other charges related to the financing of actions under the dci and eidhr in beneficiary countries, to be financed from the budget of the instruments. so far, dci and eidhr have been the only financial instruments not to provide for an exception to the principle of the non-eligibility of such costs. the amendment will allow for the financing of these costs in exceptional circumstances, thus creating greater flexibility in the implementation of programmes and projects. for eidhr projects, this is particularly important, given the special circumstances in which they are carried out. governments might indeed be reluctant to grant exemptions for projects they do not support. the proposed amendment by the commission should therefore be welcomed.
in writing. − the objective of community financing under council regulation (ec) no 1934/2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (hereinafter “ici regulation”) is to support economic, financial and technical cooperation, as well as research and academic exchange falling within community’s spheres of competence. as the committee responsible for “union’s ... external economic relations”, including “financial, economic and trade relations with third countries” (i.e. with both developing and non-developing countries), the committee on international trade (inta) was also the lead committee at the time of adoption of original ici regulation enabling inta not only to analyze this commission proposal in detail, but also to look at a broader historical and institutional context. commission’s proposal for amending the ici regulation (com(2009)0197/2) is proposed in order to significantly extend the geographical scope of the ici regulation to include cooperation with developing countries (listed in the annex of the proposal) and the overall financial framework would be significantly increased in relation thereto. even though the changes proposed by the commission may seem few in formal terms, they are substantial as all current references to partner countries (so far covering only industrialised and high-income countries and territories), including their qualitative assessment, would include also the listed developing countries.
in writing. − the aim of the commission proposal is to support the main banana-exporting countries in africa, the caribbean and the pacific (acp) via banana accompanying measures (bams), which are intended to last four years (2010-2013). although measures for which funding was provided in the past (special framework of assistance, sfa) were designed to help the acp countries adjust to changing trends in international competition, we are still faced with similar problems today, and ‘the sustainability of acp banana exports remains fragile’. we must therefore look at the issue from the point of view of development aid and combating poverty. our job in the ep has been to check that the proposed measures seek to attain the main objective of the eu’s development policy, which is to reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty.
in writing. − the legislative resolution passed with a surprisingly wide majority of 525 in favour, 49 against, and 44 abstentions. this was mainly due to the fact that, at the last minute, the rapporteur introduced an amendment limiting the time of the regulation to 5 years, subject to further approval. this was mainly in response to the pressure in council against the entire exercise. because of that amendment being carried by 393 to 216, greens/efa voted abstention on the final amended resolution. however, greens/efa voted in favour of the legislative resolution. in a big surprise, an edf amendment asking to introduce semi-finished products in the requirement for origin-marking was carried by 328 to 219. on the negative side, some product groups were kicked out from the marking requirement, especially pharmaceuticals and glasses and lenses.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to contribute to the ongoing debate on the review of the european standardisation system. the european commission is currently working on a ‘standardisation package’, which will include a legislative proposal aimed at revising the existing legal framework on european standardisation and an umbrella communication which will set the standardisation policy for the next decade. in preparation for its ‘standardisation package’, the commission has asked key experts to make strategic recommendations. these experts have been brought together in the expert panel for the review of the european standardisation system (express), which delivered its recommendations in february 2010 in the form of a report entitled ‘standardisation for a competitive and innovative europe: a vision for 2020’. the commission has also undertaken a public consultation on the review of the european standardisation system (held from 23 march to 21 may 2010) and commissioned an impact assessment study (9 march 2010). the forthcoming ‘standardisation package’ will also build on the white paper of 3 july 2009 on modernising ict standardisation in the eu – the way forward.
in writing. − with this resolution, the ep welcomes the progress made during the last year by the republic of moldova and hopes that the electoral process can further consolidate the democratic institutions and respect for the rule of law and for human rights in moldova; expects the moldovan authorities to pursue the reforms needed and fulfil their commitments to keep the republic of moldova on track for steady european integration; welcomes the start of negotiations on the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on 12 january 2010 and takes note with satisfaction of the very good results the commission is obtaining from the republic of moldova in this process; and calls on the commission to present an evaluation of the visa facilitation agreement in place, to advance towards swift agreement on a formal road-map for visa liberalisation and to offer targeted support and assistance to the moldovan authorities to meet the necessary benchmarks for full visa-free travel; calls on the council to invite the commission to proceed to develop the road-map for visa liberalisation, thus entering into the fully operational phase of the visa dialogue based on the republic of moldova’s progress following exploratory talks on the four blocks of the visa dialogue.
in writing. − the ep agrees with the commission that our ‘strong maritime tradition’ is one of the strengths of europe. it calls therefore on the european commission and the member states to further develop the potential offered by the different maritime sectors by drawing up an ambitious ‘blue growth’ strategy. it considers that integrated maritime policy (imp) should contribute to achieving a competitive, social and sustainable union. it takes the view in this regard that the development of imp must harmoniously incorporate efforts to attain economic development, a high level of employment – particularly by making the sector more attractive for young people through training actions and the launch of a ‘maritime erasmus’ – and environmental protection. it states, therefore, that the imp should be interconnected with the objectives and initiatives of the eu 2020 strategy. moreover, the ep asks the commission, therefore, to come up with an overarching, cross-sectoral strategy for sustainable growth in coastal regions and maritime sectors by 2013, based on a broad investigation of potentials and policy options and on broad stakeholder consultation.
in writing. − the reason we finally voted against the text was that the more specific proposals to shelter latin america from speculative attacks and climate change phenomena, discourage aggressive export orientation, avoid environmental dumping and hedge the liberalisation of financial services, got diluted in the process of building compromises, as counterweights to stop even more grotesque spanish wordings. the appeal to forget the unfortunate doha development agenda (dda) at the wto and focus future work towards trade regulation on new challenges was inversed and transformed into a thousand-times-repeated call for a swift conclusion of a fair, ambitious and comprehensive dda. the concept of food sovereignty was lost, too. instead of calling a spade a spade, the report only ‘stresses the importance of...’, after the rejection of any concrete figures, benchmarks and deadlines. this leaves the report without added value, compared to existing documents. on specific demands, it falls behind them.
i just want to convey to the house some information that i have just learned. in the last few weeks, a new and unprecedented phenomenon has been taking place around some of the occupied major cities of western sahara, namely that more than 12,000 sahrawi men, women and children are literally evacuating their cities and settling in tents in the vicinity of laayoune, smara and boujdour. the growing movements are a new way of protesting against the intolerable political and socioeconomic situation of the indigenous inhabitants of these territories. i say this today and now because the problem of the multiple violent interventions by the moroccan regime is likely to worsen worryingly this weekend. i therefore ask parliament to be prepared to react as the situation develops.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. − a uachtaráin agus a fheisirí, tá mé thar a bheith buíoch do na feisirí a ghlac páirt sa díospóireacht seo. the european union is following this matter very closely, especially in view of the 2005 ‘operation clean-up’ which had disastrous effects on the living conditions of 700 000 zimbabweans. in 2005, the eu office for humanitarian aid echo provided eur 3.25 million in support of food security and agricultural activities and the distribution of food rations to vulnerable persons. this current situation is not a repeat of the events that took place in zimbabwe in 2005. the commission takes note of this parliament resolution and its recommendations. to date, we have not received a clear indication from our partners that would confirm a repeat of the 2005 events. we are closely monitoring the situation through our eu delegation office and through our local echo office. we are in constant contact with the international office for migration and local human rights organisations involved in this issue. this time, a lease renewal notice that is valid for five years has been sent to the population. tenants unable to raise the necessary funds were asked to present their cases to the ministry of local government and received support from a local ngo working with homeless people. thanks to the support of a local human rights ngo, namely the zimbabwe lawyers for human rights, their cases will be heard by the court this week. the eu is already supporting the work of this human rights ngo which represents the interests of the poorest who are unable to pay the requested fees and could thus lose their land. however, i can reassure you that the eu will continue to closely monitor the situation and mobilise assistance if and when necessary.
author. − mr president, as has already been said, the european union is the single largest donor institution to cambodia and it is more than legitimate for us to call on the cambodian authorities not only to engage in political and institutional reforms to build a democratic state, governed by the rule of law and founded on the respect of fundamental freedoms and rights, but also to demonstrate the will to combat effectively the endemic scourge of corruption, massive deforestation resulting in the displacement of people, land grabbing and the sex tourism industry, to refuse the current culture of impunity and to bring to justice all those involved in such activities. the guarantee of free and fair political expression without intimidation or harassment is also a necessity. more specifically, we should state that we are alarmed at the prosecution and sentencing to a total of 12 years in prison of the opposition leader, sam rainsy, on account of a gesture which it considers to be of a symbolic and clearly political nature. it is particularly alarming that, if upheld, this verdict would bar sam rainsy from standing in the 2013 parliamentary elections and have consequences far beyond rainsy’s case, as it is bound to affect the opposition as such.
relations between the european union and the united states, as has been said here, are based on the same principles, ideas, a shared history and a common passion for freedom. but these values can end up diluted in rhetoric and languishing if we do not move from words to deeds. and one of the most serious work that has been done in this house on transatlantic relations and their state after the presidential elections has been done by mr millán mon, a report which is brought into question in this joint resolution which we shall be voting on tomorrow and which brings a series of concrete initiatives which are still perfectly valid, to constitute, commissioner, a real partnership, for which we must get down to work. we have talked about the importance of economic and trade relations and only 15 member states of the european union invest more in texas than japan does in the 50 states of the united states. the summit mechanisms should be given a boost, a euro-american assembly should be set up and, above all, a mechanism for consultation and consultation should be set up on global issues and on the most difficult areas of the world - the middle east, iran, afghanistan - and relations with the emerging powers. mr president, on president obama's recent tour of the orient we have seen that he has said that the partnership between the united states and india is the most important for them. that reminded me of one of the basic points in mr mon's report, in which he recalled mr obama's statement in berlin that europe was the most important strategic ally. the next eu-us summit will be a great opportunity to clarify this point and to define clearly what the true strategic partnership is. first of all, mr president, we could start by asking the united states to support the european union in its demands for an institutional presence, for example in the united nations general assembly, in accordance with the new arrangements introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, the most important strategic relationship the union has is with the united states. we must maintain a permanent dialogue on bilateral issues as well as on global issues and try to ensure the most coordinated action possible. that is, in my view, the main message of tomorrow's resolution. i therefore regret that the summit scheduled for may was not held. i also found the argument that some people made at the time that there was no agenda absurd. there is always an agenda between two such relevant partners, in the midst of a serious economic crisis of global scope, and when there are challenges such as terrorism, climate change, energy security or nuclear proliferation. in addition, there are major regional conflicts. the middle east peace process, the iranian nuclear challenge and the afghan question, for example, also deserve, in my view, coordinated action by the united states and the european union. i hope that the next lisbon summit will be a success. there are many issues to be addressed, some of which i have already mentioned. the world, moreover, is changing. asia is rising; think of the relevance of china or india, which president obama has just visited. there is even talk of a post-western world. in this context of changing world order, close coordination between europe and the united states is necessary. we have many interests, ideals and values in common. we'll be stronger if we act in a coordinated way. ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon has also created new bodies to strengthen the union's role in the world. we should also improve our mechanisms for dialogue and coordination with the united states. the resolution adopted by parliament in march last year contains many ideas on how to strengthen these institutional mechanisms for dialogue between brussels and washington. and a final comment: i regret that the council representative only referred to the exchange of data; he did not come here to talk about the summit, we have not heard about that. unfortunately, the commission has done so very succinctly. who's really here to talk about the summit?
madam president, freedom and security are essential elements in the instrumentation of any democratic legal order today, in which freedom uses security as the most precious instrument for protecting itself. the transfer of pnr data to third countries is an essential element in the fight against terrorism and transnational organised crime. this should be based on the strict observance of the community provisions on the protection of personal data as set out in articles 7 and 8 of the charter of fundamental rights and in article 16 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. for this reason, we should welcome the commission communication on the global approach to the transfer of pnr data to third countries and its recommendations to the council to authorise the opening of negotiations in this area with australia, canada and the united states, both of which reflect the concerns of this parliament regarding security and the defence of fundamental rights and the protection of personal data. however, it should be borne in mind that pnr data cannot be used for profiling, which is why the commission has sought to clarify - and i believe has clarified - the differences between the expression 'risk assessment' and the aforementioned profiling. the commissioner has also said that the verification will be personal and not automated. well, we'll see what happens. we need, madam president, a single, legally binding general agreement to protect personal data. and this summit agreement must be developed with sectoral agreements; all this, to fight terrorism and organised crime. as for necessity, madam president, it is an evidence. and as regards proportionality, it must in any case be an indispensable requirement.
madam president, i would like to join the voices in this parliament which have expressed support for the usefulness, as well as the timeliness, of this recommendation for negotiation by the commission to the council to establish a framework agreement on data transfer and the protection of personal data between the united states and the european union. and to express support for the comprehensive approach, so that this framework agreement covers not only all future data transfer agreements between the european union and the united states, but also bilateral agreements between the united states and each of the member states in the framework of judicial and police cooperation. secondly, i join the voices in this parliament which have expressed regret and rejection of the measures taken by the united states authorities to introduce, in the context of the promotion of travel, administrative charges which increase the costs of travel and therefore the costs of movement of persons, in the granting of the electronic travel authorization system, the so-called esta. this is in practice a burden, a visa reintroduction, which is added to the exclusion from the visa waiver programme of romania, poland, bulgaria and cyprus and therefore means a double system, a double standard in the treatment of member states. we therefore call on the commission to give priority to the expression of rejection of this matter and to consider also the option of reciprocity. but thirdly, i would say that the importance of the passenger name record and the legal agreement between the european union and the united states lies precisely in the fact that they must combine data protection with data exchange and therefore guarantee those principles which are present in the resolutions of this parliament and will be present in the resolution we will adopt tomorrow: the need to reinforce the principle of proportionality and the principle of necessity, the minimisation of unnecessary data and, of course, the purpose limitation: that they guarantee a balance between freedom and security, because freedom is a commitment of this parliament. but security is also now an objective of the european union, as the commissioner herself has acknowledged. so in this case we invite you to incorporate this commitment to strengthen the guarantee of privacy and fundamental rights of individuals in future actions on aviation security, data protection in the passenger name record, in the review of security checks and in the ongoing debate on the introduction of security scanners at airports.
i would like to welcome from this podium the communication you have presented to us. i think it is a good initiative to continue working to improve the european single market. i think it is vital that we discuss the 50 proposals to which you referred in your speech. from here i hope to be able to actively help overcome the barriers to e-commerce in europe. many of the barriers to online commerce today have already been identified and there are even concrete proposals to tackle them. we could say that we depend on political will to overcome these barriers. i think this communication is a good principle and therefore i think we should support it by taking an active part in it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, it is right that the commission has launched its innovation union proposal in parallel with its industrial policy proposal, because, indeed, to ensure smart and sustainable growth that generates jobs and competitiveness, the european union must improve its capacity to innovate. in this spirit, our group has taken responsibility for both initiatives. as coordinator, i am convinced that, with the collaboration of all, this parliament will contribute to providing solutions to these new challenges: solutions that maintain a balance between the economic, social and environmental aspects in order to move towards a greener, smarter and more socially cohesive europe. it is a contribution which begins today with this resolution, pointing out, before the council decides, the issues which must be tackled as a matter of priority, such as innovation cooperation, and also emphasizing that their success will depend on our ability to involve in them both innovative companies and universities and research centres.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you on the fact that there is innovation, attention to innovation, and also partnership; but i also want to say that we are talking about something we do not know what it is. it is an initiative that is being discussed, but no one has informed us of its content, its formula or its model. i would suggest that, first of all, if we want to be efficient, we should look at the results - as some colleagues in this house have said - of what has happened with the ieti, with the partnerships, with the platforms. we have had experience with the seventh programme, so we have to evaluate them objectively, with an external evaluation, looking at the results. in some cases of some of the ietfs, we have seen, for example, that they have ended up being dominated by the very large companies and, again, the small company has been left out. i would suggest that there are some policies and some formulas in this innovation to see how we can help the small business to get in - sometimes, perhaps, with intermediary bodies that help them to pay for the projects or to do them - but, of course, we cannot continue like this, leaving the small business out. secondly, we must think that innovation in management is necessary, innovation in the management of innovation, because, among other things, innovation is marked by the market, and management is not accustomed to following the market, which is much faster than it. so much more capacity building needs to be done, innovation in capacity building, innovation in management for research, for innovation management and to help the companies themselves to commit themselves to this very difficult and complicated future undertaking. and of course, incorporating banking with risks, that risks not only have to be borne by the citizen.
the rapporteur, mrs commissioner, also welcomes the excellent work of your team. ladies and gentlemen, regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the union and the list of those whose nationals are exempt from this requirement. the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 539/2001 before us today has a threefold objective: the transfer of taiwan to the positive list, the transfer of other third countries or territories - trinidad and tobago, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines, belize, dominica, grenada, the marshall islands, micronesia and palau - and the situation of the northern mariana islands. the situation in the marianas is not a problem, since the inhabitants are, as is well known, citizens of the united states. as regards the transfer requests from the third countries i have mentioned, the commission sees no reason to remove the visa requirement and neither do we. in the case of taiwan, the asian island has experienced commendable democratic, social and economic developments. democratic institutions have been firmly established since 1996, when the first direct presidential elections were held. the head of government is the president, who is elected by the taiwanese people by universal suffrage for a four-year term. the island's legislature is currently the yuan, which has 113 members. economically, taiwan has one of the highest per capita incomes in the world 30 100 usd, its unemployment rate in july 2010 was 5.2%, well below the european average of 10.1% for the same month. in the first quarter of 2010, economic growth reached 13.27%, while during the first half of the same year the trade balance showed a surplus of 12.1 billion dollars. according to the international monetary fund's 2009 statistics, taiwan was ranked 25th in the world in economic terms, with a gdp of $379 billion. it should be remembered that in 1950, taiwan was poorer than ghana, uganda and the democratic republic of congo, depending until 1960 on the export of basic commodities to a greater extent than countries such as kenya, south africa or lebanon. today, however, taiwanese manufactured goods account for over 97% of its exports. the above has favoured a net migration rate of taiwan of only 0.15%. for this reason, the risk of receiving irregular immigrants from the asian island is very low or almost zero. according to data provided by the european commission, during the period 2006-2008 only 45 irregular migrants from taiwan were detected in the territory of the union. as regards security and travel documents, i would point out that taiwanese electronic passports incorporate all the anti-counterfeiting standards required by the international civil aviation organisation. the situation of taiwanese in the diaspora deserves to be examined in detail, since although they are people with a passport issued by the authorities, their entry into the asian island must be authorized in advance. it is therefore logical that the european union should maintain a similar approach to such persons, as i propose in my report. taiwan currently does not require a visa from most member states, except cyprus, romania and bulgaria. however, the taiwanese authorities have committed themselves to formalizing the exemption for these countries as from 11 november, that is, as from tomorrow. this is a formal commitment which has already been formally notified to the presidency of the council, the european commission and this parliament, as well as to the permanent representations of the countries concerned. for that reason, mr president, and for other reasons which i shall mention in my second speech, it is worthwhile for us to grant visa exemption to taiwan, as the united kingdom and ireland did last year.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to once again thank the rapporteur and the plenary for their support for putting taiwan on the positive list. i can reassure members who still had some questions that the commission’s methodology for examining countries – including taiwan – is always very thorough, making sure that all the criteria are fulfilled there before we make such a proposal. as always, this has been done very thoroughly. i would also like to confirm to the last speaker that the visa requirement will be lifted for the last, remaining countries tomorrow. from tomorrow, visa liberalisation will come into effect for the remaining countries, so that there is full reciprocity. i think that, after the vote tomorrow, we will be very strong and will also send a strong message. we can all rejoice and hope for even better relations between the people of taiwan and the people of the european union. thank you very much for a very good debate.
the rapporteur. - mr president, as a noble obligation, i should like to begin by saying how much i am grateful to all the members representing their political groups for their support of the report which i have had the honour of presenting to the house. i also appreciate the support for my work. but it would be unfair if i did not say that the main responsible person - and i am a woman, the main responsible person - is commissioner malmström, who, with her support, her energy and her excellent team, has made it possible to push this dossier forward, which i call an act of justice. so, mr president, that is all there is to say, and i would like to add that i also congratulate the people of taiwan, the taiwanese authorities and, of course, the wonderful team of diplomats that taiwan has in the world, particularly in brussels.
mr president, at the last plenary session i warned that this could happen, and it has happened: the forcible dismantling of a sahrawi camp in el aaiún on monday has so far left 19 people dead, more than 700 injured and more than 150 missing. and what do the european commission and the european governments led by the spanish say? they call for calm on both sides; they say that this is a very complicated issue, that we should not interfere, that we must protect european interests in morocco. i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to take action, but i am saying that it is not prepared to take action. they are very clear, and the response and the position we must adopt in the face of them are also very clear: a frontal rejection, condemnation and demanding that the moroccan regime be held accountable. until that happens, what we must do is to close the tap on bilateral trade and morocco's privileges with the european union. enough of this human rights marketing.
mr president, on behalf of the spanish socialists, i would like to express our deep concern at the wave of violence unleashed in morocco and the sahara. we are firmly committed to the prevalence of human rights and we deplore all the deaths, both moroccan and sahrawi. the information on the situation is confusing and we are therefore pleased that an investigation is to be opened by morocco and we are of course calling for a policy of transparency of information. the strategic importance of morocco for europe requires that the european union as such should join the international efforts to facilitate dialogue in which several member states - among them spain - are engaged, and we welcome the fact that, despite the gravity of the events, dialogue between the parties has been maintained so far and new rounds of negotiations are planned. this conflict, ladies and gentlemen, has been going on for more than 30 years and must be brought to an end as soon as possible by a solution that is mutually acceptable to the parties in the framework of the united nations, which, together with the moroccan government and the saharawi people and their representatives, is the only body with the right to propose such a solution.
madam president, once again we welcome the improvements brought about precisely by the intensive dialogue between the court of auditors, the commission and, of course, the european parliament. but this year's report also shows that we cannot rest on our laurels and that we must remain vigilant. i also find very positive the proposal by mr da silva caldeira, looking to the future, on cooperation to improve and simplify important aspects of the financial regulation and those new legislative proposals on which we could perhaps work together to achieve good news. with regard to other institutions, i will be very attentive to all aspects relating to the council's operational expenditure, in particular the sesame system, in which there is specific reference to the need for improvement in the area of the council's budget forecasts, and also to specific aspects relating to the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor, which are already very much undervalued. but i would also be interested, because we have had information that a case has been referred to olaf in relation to the economic and social committee. and i would like to know your opinion on the significant increase in staff in the committee of the regions between 2009 and 2010 precisely.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work, because, beyond the 146 million agreed, which we hope will have a multiplier effect eight times greater, this initiative has an important symbolic value. as the rapporteur has explained, we are going to allocate funds to sustainable energy micro-projects which will make it possible not only to achieve such important objectives as increasing security of supply and reducing co2 emissions, but also to achieve an objective with a very direct impact on citizens: the reduction of energy poverty. the text we are voting on today is also relevant because it introduces an innovative financial instrument. this mechanism will help overcome the resistance of financial institutions to such projects, since they will be able to count on the support of international financial institutions. finally, we should be pleased that once again we have shown sufficient flexibility to respect the good practices developed in the member states to link the deployment of renewable energies and energy efficiency. i hope that the implementation of this regulation will enable these bodies to develop their full potential without the obstacles which excessive bureaucracy usually imposes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's farmers are not left behind. this sector is particularly vulnerable to crises affecting the whole of community agriculture, due to a number of factors: high input costs, falling market prices, power imbalances in the food chain and the cyclical increase in cereal prices. european livestock farming faces these problems as do the other agricultural sectors, but with one added problem: the heavy investment that characterizes these productions. on the eve of the presentation by the european commission of the communication on the reform of the common agricultural policy, i think it is very appropriate to send a message of solidarity and concern to this group of producers. in my country, spain, as in other countries of the european union, we are talking about a structural crisis and the rise in cereal prices has only made a situation worse which has been dragging on for several years now. the statistics tell us of a growing abandonment of production, but this abandonment should not be seen in the context of a world demand which will grow in the coming years thanks to the supposed improvement in the living standards of the population. what measures does the commissioner or the european commission envisage taking in view of the specific nature of the livestock sectors in view of the forthcoming reform of the cap? i am talking about market measures and other initiatives to prevent, among other things, the damage caused by intensive production models which respect the environmental standards of the european union being penalized by the future aid scheme. common sense measures should be put in place to ensure greater security of supply for livestock feed and the establishment of sufficient cereal stocks and to speed up the liberalisation of these stocks. finally, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that this draft resolution makes special mention of pigs and poultry, sectors which do not receive direct aid from the union but for which market and trade measures can also be envisaged to alleviate their situation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the over-production of cereals. in the context of increasing volatility in commodity prices, decision-making for feed manufacturers and farmers becomes very complex, as we saw at the beginning of the policy course. the worst-affected meat sector at the moment is the pig sector, so i shall concentrate on the serious problems it is facing: the increase in the cost of animal feed, which represents 60% of the total cost of production, so its importance is crucial to the producer's profitability. in two months the price of cereals has risen by 50%, not because of a mismatch between supply and demand - there is enough production - but because of speculative movements outside the sector. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we welcome the introduction of intervention cereals on the market. it can only be hoped that it will eventually be sent to the community market, otherwise it will not help the livestock sector. a levy on european cereals exports, as was done for wheat in 1994, would be a possible solution. and the pressure of large retail with prices falling, so that the increase in production costs cannot be passed on to the selling price. it is necessary to encourage producer organisations capable of establishing themselves on the market by concentrating supply. the commission is well aware of the problem, but there are no concrete measures which we hope will be implemented in the future cap, through efficient and flexible market management mechanisms to combat and act against the problems that exist; to fight against speculation, to act with concrete measures to promote the competitiveness of the sector in the market and to strengthen its weight in the value chain. i would also like to take this opportunity to call for the activation of the market measures for pigs, export refunds and private storage. the commission considers that the situation in the sector does not justify this; however, in recent months there has been a continuous fall in prices and prices received by farmers are below the average of the last five years. i think it is justifiable for the commission to trigger the existing market management mechanisms, as some member states have asked in the council.
madam president, livestock farms are suffering the consequences of the crisis. in addition, they have to comply with the strictest standards in the world, which increase their production prices, with the disadvantage that this entails compared to third countries. i therefore believe that it is necessary, firstly, to ensure sufficient funding in the cap after 2013 to ensure the viability of agricultural producers and livestock farmers; secondly, to adopt specific measures for farmers using sustainable protection measures; thirdly, to strengthen measures to support the livestock sector in the most disadvantaged areas; and fourthly, to require that imports from third countries comply with european union rules to avoid unfair competition. and finally, i ask the commission to defend the interests of european producers in all trade negotiations, so that they do not jeopardize the production of the livestock sector. failure to take these measures may make europe a sectorless area dependent on imports and third countries.
ladies and gentlemen, as you know, today is armistice day, in which we commemorate the end of hostilities at the end of the first world war. for this reason, to commemorate the armistice which ended the first world war, we shall observe a minute's silence in memory of the millions of europeans who lost their lives in that conflict. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i have an announcement to make. the government of taiwan has informed the council, through its permanent representations, parliament and the commission that it is proceeding with visa exemption for cyprus, bulgaria and romania as from today, 11 november. as a result, all 27 countries of the european union can enter taiwan without a visa. when the house will be speaking in a moment, mr president, i will take this opportunity to congratulate all the political groups on their support for this dossier, the people of taiwan and the taiwanese authorities, and their very strong diplomacy.
mr president, i am only speaking to correct an error: in recital j, where it says '70% of meat', it should say '60% of meat'.
this closes this spot.
in writing. − with the adoption of this report, the ep requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf and, overall, recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. it emphasises the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. − whereas krzysztof lisek is essentially charged with offences in relation to his management and accounting activities as chairman of the board of the polish youth card association and campus sp. during a period prior to his election to the european parliament, and whereas the offences with which mr lisek is charged have nothing to do with his activities as a member of the european parliament, and whereas no cogent evidence has been adduced as to the existence of any fumus persecutionis, the ep has decided today to waive the immunity of mr lisek.
in writing. − the greens/efa voted against to this report, although green meps voted in favour of the gauzes report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the reason why they did so was that, by the time of the vote in that committee, the text was by far more ambitious that the final agreement reached with the council. the text is admittedly a first step in the right direction since hedge funds were not previously obliged to be transparent. however, the version issued by the council does not satisfy parliament on some of the key demands, and weakens some of the arrangements foreseen by the commission in its original proposal.
in writing. − we have supported this text, with the main purpose of this amendment of regulation ec 539/2001 being to exempt holders of taiwanese passports from visa requirement for entering the eu. as was detailed very precisely in the commission proposal, the principle of the visa exemption is certainly to be supported, given that the level of economic development, education and democratic governance of taiwan is comparable to the oecd countries in the region – south korea and japan. after decades of tension, the political climate between the present taiwanese government and the people’s republic of china is currently very positive, as the establishment of direct flights and the unprecedented level of cross-straits business and personal exchanges show, thus providing a window of opportunity for a trouble-free implementation of the measure.
in writing. − in 2009, the eu adopted a programme to aid economic recovery for europe (eepr) by granting eur 3.98 billion for energy projects by the end of 2010. that community financing was allocated to three sub-programmes in the fields of gas and electricity infrastructure projects, offshore wind electricity projects (owe), and carbon capture and storage projects (ccs). thanks to the greens, we managed to get a provision which would allow to use the uncommitted funds for the creation of a dedicated financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable initiatives, in particular in urban settings. in order to foster a large number of decentralised investments, municipal, local and regional public authorities will be the beneficiaries.
in writing. − i abstained at the final vote. among other things, one of the main positive aspects (on which not all our group agree) of this resolution that should be emphasised is in paragraph 29, where the ep states that the international undertakings given regarding the mdgs, the achievement of many of which is lagging behind schedule, can only be honoured if the industrialised countries maintain their commitments and set aside 0.7% of their gdp for overseas development aid by 2015. parliament calls, therefore, on the eu and the us, and on other international donors, to honour their commitments and to take measures to speed up progress towards meeting the mdg targets by 2015;
in writing. − several groups agreed on this text that basically recalls parliament’s determination to fight terrorism and organised and transnational crime, and, at the same time, its firm belief in the need to protect civil liberties and fundamental rights, including the rights to privacy, informational self-determination and data protection. parliament reaffirms that necessity and proportionality, as set out in article 8 of the european convention on human rights and articles 7 and 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, are key principles in ensuring effectiveness in the fight against terrorism. it welcomes the commission communication on the global approach to transfers of pnr data to third countries and welcomes the recommendation from the commission to the council to authorise the opening of negotiations for agreements between the eu and australia, canada and the usa for the transfer and use of pnr data to prevent and combat terrorism and other serious transnational crime. it also welcomes the decision of the council to start all negotiations simultaneously, while acknowledging that the length of the negotiations may vary.
in writing. − with the adoption of this text parliament states that the innovation union initiative is the most significant to date and a concrete attempt at an integrated european innovation policy, whose success depends upon well-coordinated cooperation at regional, national and european level, with the maximum involvement of all relevant players at each level. the european innovation partnerships represent an innovative concept aiming to create synergies between existing and, where necessary, new european and member state initiatives in the field of innovation and maximise and accelerate the delivery of results and benefits to society. parliament therefore welcomes the first proposed topic for european innovation partnership, on active and healthy ageing, and the suggested approach by the commission to first run a pilot project testing the most suitable format for these partnerships before launching any further ones, and calls on the commission, when running the first pilot project on active and healthy ageing, to include social innovation which leads to a better quality of life, prevents disease, improves social networks within public sectors and among social partners, and promotes the introduction of new technologies supporting the quality of life.
in writing. − by adopting this resolution, parliament emphasises the need to maintain a balance between the three dimensions of the osce, developing them coherently and comprehensively and building on what has already been achieved. it points out that none of the dimensions may be strengthened to the detriment of another. it stresses that security threats and challenges should be tackled through all three dimensions if action is to be truly effective, including contemporary ones such as organised crime, terrorism, cyber-threats, human and drug trafficking, energy security, as well as activities relating to early warning mechanisms, and conflict prevention and resolution. it emphasises that the strengthening of the osce should not come at the price of weakening the existing institutions and mechanisms or affecting their independence, when they have not yet been reformed or alternatives have not yet been agreed, particularly as regards the work of the office for democratic institutions and human rights (odihr). finally it calls on the osce to further strengthen its capacity to ensure respect for and the implementation of principles and commitments undertaken by its participating states in all three dimensions, inter alia by enhancing follow-up mechanisms.
in writing. − we greens have supported the text because paragraph 99 (on private/capital-funded systems) was deleted, and because the rest of the text has taken some positive green points on board. for instance, measures concerning the retirement age should be based on the needs of the persons concerned; periods spent working, learning, caring or volunteering are complementary and provide valuable experience at all ages; there is a need to combat age discrimination and to set country-specific targets for access to training and lifelong learning for older workers, broken down by age group and gender. older people’s employability also depends on autonomy and individual choice for workers and a better work-life balance. in order to avoid a disproportionate burden on women because of an increased demand for care in an ageing society, labour and care should be rendered compatible in all member states and equally distributed between women and men.
in writing. - since 1984 the successive research framework programmes have evolved considerably, and have done so by growing in budget and growing in the number of areas covered, which is certainly positive. but they have also done so at the cost of such complexity in the participation formulae that the competition of our best researchers is at serious risk. the report contains in a comprehensive and exemplary way the demands of the scientific community, as well as the conclusions of the seminar on simplification organized by the spanish presidency last february. i therefore vote in favour of a report which consolidates a number of principles and lines of action, such as the close link between this issue and the future of the financial perspective beyond 2013, the triannual review of the financial regulation and the application of the tolerable error rate in the area of research, which will be fundamental for the preparation of fp8. but there are also other, smaller simplification measures which we can already introduce in the current programme as good practice and which will not only facilitate participation by the current beneficiaries but, i am convinced, will also increase it.
in writing. − we in the greens/efa group supported the report mainly because it includes some of our key issues such as civil society organisations. see the buzek report on the seventh framework programme, amendment 278 (annex i, chapter iv – capacities – research for the benefit of smes – activities – paragraph 1, indent 2a (new)): support civil society organisations or networks of civil society organisations in commissioning research from research performers; open standards; decrease loss of time for researchers in bureaucratic processes; simplification is essential for all small actors, including smes, but civil society organisations should not be forgotten; open science and repositories (reference to the berlin declaration); seek complementarities between the fp and the cip; international cooperation with developing countries may require specific rules.
in writing. − as greens we have participated in negotiations on a joint resolution on this topic. the result is not overwhelming, as other groups insisted on pointing to high environmental and animal welfare standards as the reason for lower competitiviness in the eu livestock sector. they also would not agree to take climate-change issues related to livestock production into consideration. however, the resolution refers to the demands adopted in the bové report and calls for measures to curb speculation and price volatility, as well as pointing out the key demand of the häusling report for a crop protein plan to reduce dependence on protein crop imports (mainly gm soy) and the specific needs of extensive grassland beef production.
mr president, i think the arguments given by the gue/ngl group are absolutely relevant, important and necessary, so i will support this position.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on emergency aid to haiti.
commissioner damanaki, first of all i would like to congratulate the commission on the efforts it has made in haiti. however, the situation calls for an urgent and much more substantial response. we need more resources, we need more international commitment, despite the difficulties in mobilising funds in the current economic context. it is not possible that there are funds for some problems and there are no funds for this humanitarian situation. we have health and humanitarian priorities: informing the population about a disease, getting tents, improving sanitation conditions in all areas, providing access to clean water. all these tasks are urgent and we need the greatest possible effort from the commission and from all the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is able to compete effectively with the other fisheries sectors. commissioner, the sector urgently needs the plan in order to achieve its objective, to develop a profitable activity without endangering the fisheries and, to do this, the anchovy biomass in the bay of biscay must be maintained at a level that allows its sustainable exploitation in the economic, environmental and social fields. and that is much better done by calculating yields on the basis of scientific advice than by subjecting the calculation of tacs to dark political negotiations. the exploitation rule must therefore be included in the plan and this requires that quotas be set on the basis of the biomass estimated by scientific reports. commissioner, this initiative was presented by the commission in july 2009; we started work in september; we defined a working procedure with the whole spanish and french sector through the fishermen's associations, the scientific institutes and the regional advisory council for the south-western waters. in accordance with this method, we worked on a joint proposal which had broad support in parliament. with a broad consensus and in view of the imminent entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the indecision on how to apply it to the files which were initiated earlier, we started a guideline vote in the committee on fisheries on 30 november. this form of open and participatory work has been met with a very different attitude on the part of the council and the commission. first of all, we knew while we were working that a control regulation was being prepared which was going to affect this report, but we did not have too much information, which plunged us into a perfectly avoidable uncertainty. after the vote in the committee on fisheries and during the spanish presidency, i negotiated the initiative with the council. we decided to convene the trilogue and, on the same day of the meeting, the spanish presidency surprisingly and unexpectedly informed us that, at the request of the french government, the spanish government had decided to leave the matter on the table because the legal basis was not clear. after months of work, paralysis. the spanish presidency: no agreement or trilogues possible. i asked the new presidency if it was prepared to continue negotiations and they said that i should not be impatient, that i should not be in a hurry. in view of the council's unwillingness to move forward, we shall now proceed to a new vote. that's what the legal services recommend. the second vote rejects three amendments which were adopted in the orientation vote and which are fundamental to the sector. the first concerns the exploitation rate, considering that 0.4 would be more appropriate. the second concerns the inclusion of live bait in the tac. it would not be correct to count it as a catch quota. and the third concerns the review of catches. if the scientific committee is unable to issue the estimate of the current biomass due to insufficient information, the sector cannot be subject to a double penalty of a 25% reduction in the tac compared to the previous year. the commission had already considered that in this case the 10% reduction should be no less than 7 000 tonnes. and as regards the powers of this institution, the council and the commission have not always respected the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is that true? - yes. i ask you, commissioner, why? what are they gonna do? i'd like to hear from you today. i would also like to hear from the belgian presidency why it has asked for the initiative to be withdrawn. i'd like to have clear answers. we've been working on this for 14 months and all we've got is confusion. the council and commission's approach is undermining the credibility of the european institutions in the eyes of a sector which is tired of this approach and which needs solutions. gain credibility with the sector! at least, recover the one you have lost from september 2009 until today! parliament is determined to exercise the co-decision powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon. respect them! your approach is not conducive to 21st century leadership. transparency and participation are the lines of action we have used. i would like to ask you to use them yourselves, because that is the way the european project is going.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to say a few words about the long-term anchovy plan, but i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs bilbao, and all the members of the committee on fisheries for their work on this proposal. i would like to say to mrs bilbao that there was indeed a delay in adopting this proposal, but i would like to say that it was clear enough that the commission has done absolutely everything to unblock the situation. the anchovy stock in the bay of biscay was threatened with collapse and the fishery was therefore closed in 2005. it was reopened in january 2010, just five years later. last july, scientists confirmed that the stock was safely above precautionary limits. this allowed me to propose a tac of over 15 000 tonnes, which is in force now. the tac follows the harvest rules of the plan and i am happy to see that this proposal is already helping us to manage the stock properly. clearly, the long closure caused serious financial damage to those depending on this fishery. we absolutely need to prevent this happening again. the only way to do that is to exploit the stock consistent with maximum sustainable yield and keep a low risk of fishery closure. our proposal shows that this can be done while at the same time providing sustainability for the industry. if we want to avoid closure, then we need to keep the exploitation rate at 30%. i would like to thank the committee on fisheries for its support both on the substance and in relation to the delegation of powers to the commission. i can support these amendments. i can also support those amendments related to the alignment of the proposal with the new control regulation, in force since january 2010. there is only one exception, however. it relates to reducing the delay for notifying entry into port from four hours to one hour. this amendment changes the four-hour rule which is in the new control regulation. you know that this new control regulation has been in force since the beginning of this year. i am not in favour of amending it so soon, especially since the control regulation itself allows coastal member states to apply specific exceptions when justified. so we have this margin. we really do not need to change this control regulation so soon, but of course it is for you to decide. i will turn now to the second report, the multiannual plan for horse mackerel. let me say that mr gallagher, as rapporteur, and all the members of the committee on fisheries have done excellent work on this proposal and i would like to pass on to you my sincere thanks for all your hard work and your constructive approach. western horse mackerel is by far the most important of the three horse mackerel stocks in eu waters. the stock is currently stable at a good level, which means the tac for 2011 is almost unchanged. the annual tac decision on this stock, which is based on recent scientific advice, does not correspond to our objective of having binding, predictable long-term management. therefore this plan, like other long-term plans, is dear to me because i want us to move away from the annual haggling in council on how much can be fished. we owe it to the industry to give them more planning and stability by agreeing on long-term plans. your general support, both on the substance and on the delegation of powers, shows that we have the same goal. i can support your amendments and those related to the alignment of the proposal with the new control regulation, in force since january 2010. other than this, the plan itself should not fix tac areas, leaving the possibility of adapting these in the annual tac decisions following the relevant scientific advice. there is one amendment, however, that does not go in the right direction, namely your acceptance of the council presidency’s compromise of around 5 000 tonnes. the figure of 5 000 tonnes is simply not science-based. how has it been decided upon? why not 6 000 or 7 000? having discretion to move the tac up and down to the right levels in a long-term management strategy does not seem to me a robust approach. i will turn now to the third report on the baltic technical measures. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr gróbarczyk, for his very good work on the report, which was adopted unanimously. once again, i thank the committee on fisheries for fully supporting it. with this proposal we are ensuring legal continuity in respect of our policy on high grading, which was introduced in the baltic sea last year, as well as on fishing restrictions for some species. i will now focus on the last report: the use of alien and locally absent species in aquaculture. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ferreira, for his work, and the committee on fisheries as a whole. as you know, the commission is committed to promoting the sustainable development of aquaculture in the eu through the new aquaculture strategy. this implies a high level of environmental protection, but also the establishment of the conditions to facilitate aquaculture operations. we need to do that. amending the regulation on the introduction of alien species in aquaculture closed facilities will certainly facilitate aquaculture activities by eliminating unnecessary administrative burden whilst at the same time ensuring adequate protection for aquatic habitats. this is not all that we can do, of course, so i very much welcome the proposal by mr ferreira to enhance our research efforts on aquaculture. we are going to do our best by means of our budget and by means of cfp reform. i am very pleased that the discussions in the committee on fisheries have resulted in a better definition of ‘closed aquaculture facility’. i would like to stress that the initial proposal was adopted by the commission one month before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, so we had the same problem here. the committee on fisheries tabled amendments aiming to bring the basic regulation into line with the new comitology provisions of the lisbon treaty. we considered it opportune to carry out this alignment as proposed by parliament. on the other hand, it was necessary to modify our proposal formally to introduce such substantial amendments, and this accounts for the delay we are talking about. to conclude, i would like once again to thank all the rapporteurs in the committee on fisheries for their reports and for their work on these relevant issues.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, thank you very much to those responsible for the reports for the excellent work they have done. i shall focus on the management plans, but not to go into the background - which has already been highlighted by the respective rapporteurs - but to refer to the important institutional challenges they are posing and which need to be addressed. parliament has responsibly, after more than a year of negotiations with the council, decided to bring the reports to the first reading as a means of exerting pressure in order to unblock the current situation, which affects not only these two proposals but also all those which are due to reach us in the near future. parliament is prepared to find a compromise solution with the council and the commission, but this requires above all that the council recognize and accept that the main body of the long-term management plans should be included in the scope of the ordinary legislative procedure. that is to say, on the legal basis of article 43 (2) of the treaty. it is incomprehensible that before the lisbon treaty, when the council also had exclusive powers over tacs and quotas, parliament was required to be consulted and that now the council is raising questions of exclusivity for the same issues when, according to all legal reports, article 43 (3) must be interpreted in a restrictive way. i therefore ask the commissioner to take parliament's position into account even if - and i believe she has not replied to mrs bilbao - any of these proposals were to be withdrawn or replaced by new texts. otherwise we will have to go to the court of justice and block future long-term plans, which is undesirable, since it is a basic instrument of fisheries management.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the four rapporteurs. i shall also be speaking about management plans, anchovy and horse mackerel. as for the proposal for the exploitation of anchovy, it was to be a proposal for the sustainable exploitation of anchovy, and it has been a complex proposal which the council has blocked. this is the sector that has been the most affected. we are faced with a situation of paralysis because the question has not been resolved because of a lack of decision-making by the council and also by the commission. i would like to stress the position of the spanish socialist delegation, which throughout this process has supported the unanimous demands of the sector, backed up - and i repeat, backed up - by the scientific reports and by the regional advisory council, as it is maintained with regard to the new issues that are being raised in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. and in view of this paralysis, we ask the commissioner to withdraw the proposal if necessary, to take parliament's positions into account and to submit a new proposal. as regards the hake, mr gallagher has raised the various issues with which we also agree, such as the multiannual introduction, tacs, scientific recommendations, and he has tabled an amendment which the socialist group has considered important and which the spanish socialist group considers important because in spain there is a fishing sector which is engaged in small-scale fishing of hake, which is consumed fresh, caught on the day and consumed on the same day. and this lack of recognition of a sector will produce socioeconomic damage and, of course, will reduce the possibilities for better management. we therefore believe that mr gallagher should have considered the proposal we have put forward, differentiating the low-lying coast.
i too, mr president, in connection with the debate on anchovies, would like to stress the importance and the turning point it represents, not only for the sector and especially for the anchovy issue, but also for relations between the european commission, the european parliament and the council. in this connection, i would also like to make it very clear that our green group supports the proposals which, from a more precautionary point of view, were made by the european commission at the time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tacs are not exceeded, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the tacs are not being reduced. we have supported the european commission on these three issues, we believe it is the right thing to do and precisely because we want to act, for once, as holistic doctors who treat, rather than as forensic doctors who simply certify death. i think it's important that we get this message across and i think we have a good opportunity to get things right.
mr president, i shall concentrate on two reports whose procedure and outcome are an example of what should and should not be done. i am referring to the plan for the anchovy population and the use of exotic species in aquaculture. the issue of anchovy, an example of how not to do things, has been debated for over a year and has unfortunately become a debate about the powers that the treaty of lisbon gives to the european parliament and the legal basis of the european commission's proposal, rather than a debate about what is best for fishermen, what is best for the industries or for fisheries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fishermen are rightly complaining about the administrative hurdles facing this plan, which is so necessary to avoid further disruptions in the fishery in the future. i sincerely believe that, in the context of all this uncertainty, the commission should try to send a positive signal to the sector today in the european parliament. on the other hand, if we are talking about the use of exotic species, the agreement reached by the european parliament at first reading is a good deal. we have been able to reach an agreement between the commission, the council and parliament quickly, without major legal or substantive disputes. the agreement not only sets out a rigorous definition of closed aquaculture facilities, but also achieves greater legal clarity for companies in the sector and - most importantly - removes some of the red tape that citizens are already fed up with. i am convinced that administrative procedures must be kept to the minimum necessary. european citizens have to put up with an excess of bureaucracy which makes it very difficult to start or carry out any activity. so reports like today, which remove red tape, are not only good news for the aquaculture sector, but should be a constant in the way we act.
mr president, commissioner damanaki, i shall concentrate on the reports by mr gróbarczyk and mrs ferreira. i congratulate the rapporteurs on reaching first reading agreements with the council to revise two regulations adapting the fisheries policy to the lisbon treaty and underlining the european union's commitment to sustainable activity in resource management and biodiversity conservation. the prohibition of qualitative selection and the restrictions on fishing for european plaice and turbot in the baltic are essential measures for efficient and proper resource management. it is appropriate to incorporate them, on a permanent basis, into the technical measures for these waters regulation. this approach could be extended to other community waters and be part of the no-discard policy of the future reform of the common fisheries policy. it is also essential that the european union update the definition and operating conditions of closed installations in aquaculture, consider how to make public their list and establish, in accordance with the lisbon treaty, the procedures for the development or implementation at community level of the rules aimed at preventing pollution in these activities which may put our ecosystems at risk or affect them.
mr president, commissioner, the anchovy fishery in the bay of biscay was closed in 2005 because of the poor state of the stock. the proposed plan aims to ensure sustainable exploitation by establishing quotas through scientific criteria. this plan is supported by the sector, a sector which needs stability. i ask the commission to withdraw this proposal and to take account of parliament's initiative.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members of parliament for their contributions. the discussion was very interesting indeed. first i would like to react to the remarks of mrs fraga, on behalf of the epp and of other members, about the institutional problems we have now, referring to the new institutional environment we have under the lisbon treaty. i have to admit that the enforcement of the lisbon treaty has created a new era, and we would like to adapt to this new era. i would like to say in a very clear way that the commission understands and supports the idea that parliament has to have a say in terms of the harvest: the role of the long management plan. we think that the treaties are very clear when they refer to this issue. this is our position but, as you know, there is a reaction in the council. some member states have reacted in a very strong way, but also there is a general reaction to this approach. we have to find a solution here, because otherwise we cannot go on to enforce long management plans and, as you will understand, long management plans are our future. we cannot go on with a new policy dictated by short-termism and all these political bargains we are used to. so we have to find a solution to unblock the situation. i have in mind to try to find a way out by means of a trilateral meeting. i am going to propose to parliament and the council that we all sit together in order to find at least a compromise solution, which we need as soon as possible because we cannot go on in this way. all the long management plans are blocked now, and i have some new proposals about some new management plans, which are very important for salmon, for example, and for pelagic stocks. these are very important long management plans. they are ready and we are waiting to find an institutional solution to these very sensitive problems. referring to the contributions of the other groups, i would like to welcome the contributions of mr arsenis, mr haglund and ms lövin on behalf of their groups and to agree with them that what we need is long management plans and scientific advice. i understand and i would like to be very clear on the demands of our fisheries and the problems of our fisheries sector. but i would like to tell you that we are now discussing a clear example of the situation. the anchovy plan and the fact that we had to close the fisheries there for some years is clear proof that we cannot go forward while ignoring scientific advice. i understand the problems, and we have to find a synthesis and a solution. my idea – and this will be one of the main themes of our fisheries policy reform – is to continue heeding scientific advice and also try to find a solution in case that advice is not clear enough and we do not have enough data to form a clear opinion. i would also like to say that the report by mr gróbarczyk is very important, and that technical measures concerning how to avoid upgrading are very important for our policy. i would also like to underline that we need a policy on flounders and flatfish, as we have already said. we intend to produce such a policy. we need a very brave policy regarding discards, to which a lot of you referred. i do not think we can afford to throw fish back in the sea when they are so valuable. we cannot afford this any more. perhaps it was a solution when we had plenty of fish in our waters, but now we have real problems. we cannot throw fish back in the sea. so we have to find a solution here, and i very much welcome proposals such as compensating fishermen for the cost of the catch in the case of by-catches. we can find solutions, but what we have to do through our policy reform is move towards a target of eliminating discards. of course we have to bear in mind all the technical measures needed for this, but we have to move in this direction. one last remark about the aquaculture problems. we have to reduce the burdens which create obstacles in aquaculture. i can agree with that. i can agree with the rapporteur and mr milana and other speakers who have spoken about it. what i can say is that we are trying to achieve this as part of our cfp reform. i would also like to reiterate that we are going to increase scientific research into aquaculture species, because we really need to proceed to mass production of these aquaculture products if we really want aquaculture to be an alternative to our fishing sector.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all, commissioner, i would like to know whether you intend to give in to the council's demands, acknowledging - and i thank you for acknowledging this - the problems with regard to the acceptance of the powers conferred on this parliament by the treaty of lisbon. the committee on fisheries has voted for the second time and has not asked the commissioner to withdraw the proposal. what we are asking the commissioner today is whether she will give in to the council's demands or not. the sector needs a plan. this sector has been responsible and has worked for more than two years with the scientific institutes and the commission to set and put forward the exploitation rule in the proposal. a responsible sector which, after five years of stopping - it should not be forgotten that it was the sector itself which requested the stop - was able to catch 7 000 tonnes the previous year, which set and fixed every day the quota it could catch to make the small quota it could catch even more profitable and which, unilaterally, also decided to notify the commission that it was stopping fishing because it had already reached the limit set. that's the sector we have. an industry that has asked us, time and again, to decide, to be transparent, and that has worked - and i can say this on my own behalf - in a serious and rigorous way to have that plan that is so needed. the adoption of this plan means that the decision on quotas and tacs is not involved in the obscure political decisions, sometimes without knowing on what basis. we've lived for many years with that opacity. the 21st century is not the century of opacity and that is not what european citizens deserve nor what a sector that has shown itself to be responsible deserves. fortunately, the latest report by azti (basque scientific institute) and the juvena study have shown us that there is much more breadth, fortunately, for next year. but i would like a clearer answer, commissioner.
madam president, fishing vessels operating in the indian ocean are suffering a wave of pirate attacks. in the last two weeks, ten attacks on the intertuna iii, the demiku, the elai alai, the anzoras beach, the albacan, the erroxape, the campolibre alai, or the aritzatxu beach. attacks are increasingly occurring further from the coast, because pirates are using ships they've hijacked as motherships to improve their logistics. ships, even with private security, are very vulnerable. they report their positions and no one intercepts them. coordination needs to be improved, because eu navfor has not intervened in any of these attacks. how they respond to these alerts is unknown. the resolution we adopted in november last year in this parliament must be implemented and we need more involvement from the united nations. more countries and more means for atalanta, more effective blockades of the somali coast and more agreements with the riparian countries to try the pirates. piracy has an impact on our fishing and merchant fleet, and also on the countries with which we have agreements, whose development or ruin also depends on the safety of fishing in this area.
madam president, the church of our lady of sorrows in baghdad was recently attacked and 58 people were killed, mostly women and children, simply because they were christians. al qaeda has proudly claimed responsibility for the feat. it is not an isolated event, but the culmination of persecutions and attacks on christians in muslim-majority countries. evictions in morocco, threats in turkey, bombings in india or nigeria. in january, six christians were massacred outside a church in cairo. how long will the complicit silence of the western democracies continue? fortunately, president buzeck has made an institutional statement. the statement of condemnation by the high representative, mrs ashton, has been limited to a condemnation of a terrorist act. why is the motive "the condition of christians" not cited as the unmistakable cause of the slaughter? i don't hear from mr. shoemaker. i haven't heard from president erdogan. what is the alliance of civilizations for? i feel sorry for our pan-asianism and our cowardice. i am reminded of the weeping and misunderstood oriana fallaci, who announced the arrival of eurabia and was almost stoned to death for having the courage to denounce what is happening in complex europe.
madam president, commissioner, it is a pity that when we are talking about the future of 180 000 european families and the quintessential indigenous energy source in the european union, the european parliament has only a right of consultation. subsidies are not a general way of making europe competitive, but making european coal competitive through subsidies is, firstly, strategically necessary, because 60% of european energy is imported and 40% is nuclear - which many in this house do not want - and secondly, because of the price trend: the european price of coal is getting closer to the international price. and, further, i ask you: what is competitive coal? ask yourself whether all the coal imported into the european union incorporates the social and safety costs of the farms that the european coal itself incorporates. is that the model that many of you want for europe? do you accept the importation of products from outside our continent which do not comply with the principles of community preference and which do not incorporate social rights? do you reject the same for european coal? the longer the timeframe, the better to introduce the clean combustion and storage technologies that already exist in the european union. without european coal, if we shut down european mines, there will be no incentive to continue reducing emissions from thermal power stations, which will continue to burn imported coal and produce co2. what would you prefer: that co2 comes to us from outside the european union or that co2 can be treated and stored with european technology? to deny, as you do, that there can be community coal, i do not think it is liberalism: i think it is hypocrisy.
madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for visiting my homeland, asturias, a region which in ancient times forged the origins of spain and europe, and which, thanks to coal and its people, is a contemporary social vanguard. the mining regions of the european union must follow this praiseworthy and dynamic endeavour without hindrance, but with its encouragement. the threat of ending the exploitation of indigenous coal must be neutralised, allowing the strategic sector to survive in a reasonable way, and help must be given to achieve competitiveness within a reasonable time without penalising the companies. and above all, clean extraction must be achieved as soon as possible. the large investments in clean coal must first of all be for the benefit of europe and its own coal mining regions. it is absurd that those who oppose european coal should defend or tolerate coal from other latitudes, which is produced with greater environmental damage, terrible insecurity and wages which are not really competitive. it is simply intolerable that this discriminatory situation should be brought about against our own land. let's keep the mining sector running on new technology!
madam president, competitiveness is important, but it cannot be the only criterion. our energy dependence means that coal as a native source of fossil energy is the only source of secure energy supply, and the economic and social impact of mining in several european regions requires that mine closures are not considered as an inevitable event either in 2014 or 2018. if we remain energy dependent on coal, in 2018 we will have to continue to guarantee energy supply with aid if the mines are not competitive or without aid if they are competitive. we must also consider the competitiveness of coal, not only economically but also in terms of employment and the environment. european coal is safe coal, and we must see this especially in these days when mine accidents are commonplace outside europe. moreover, european coal is coal which can be clean. that is why we are calling in the amendments to the rapkay report for aid to be extended without time limit to the costs of co2 capture and any other technology which allows for a cleaner combustion of coal.
madam president, in order to mitigate the social and energy impact and to ensure a secure energy reserve, we have tabled three amendments to the house with the following objectives: firstly, that the overall volume of aid per year be decreasing, although without any percentage or per company limit. in this respect, we welcome mr langen's position that fixed references should be abolished and that each member state should be able to decide according to its own interests. secondly, that the aid to cover exceptional costs be extended until 2030. the proposals will help to reduce the energy dependence of many countries in the union, including spain. they would mean the maintenance of local production and the preservation of thousands of jobs on which large parts of spain and europe depend.
in writing. there are several reasons for supporting coal aid: strategic, territorial sustainability and social. as far as the strategic nature is concerned, we have to take into account that the market is changing rapidly, so abandoning coal without having a viable alternative would not be appropriate. the environmental argument is also useless, since imported coal is as polluting as indigenous coal, and let us not forget that the mines from which we import coal often do not respect social rights. as for reasons of territorial sustainability, in many cases the mines are in sparsely populated regions that are totally dependent on this industry to maintain the region, and we can turn our lands into a desert. the last reason, and the most important, is the more than 180,000 families that may be affected. in spain and in my region, aragon, we are pioneers in renewable energy, with almost 60% autonomy. the only resource we can store is coal, and we need more time to be able to improve our technologies and apply them to mining and to turn our indigenous coal into a clean, sustainable coal. (the sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. pending the vote and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i only want to say that i voted against this report in the committee on fisheries because i understood that some of the amendments which were drawn up in cooperation with the sector had not been adopted. but, as i believe it is much more important that the sector has a long-term plan for anchovy, i will vote in favour and i will take this opportunity to ask the council, which is having such reservations, to accept the co-decision capacity of this parliament from the treaty of lisbon and, please, from today to set a date for starting negotiations, because the sector, if this plan does not go ahead, will be the most affected.
mr president, i voted in favour of amendments nos 30 and 31 because both the zoning of tacs and the fixing of tacs have to take account of the characteristics and objectives of the different fleets - the artisanal and the industrial - if the fishing opportunities they have had so far are to be maintained. the amendment of the regulation could lead to changes in the framework of the fishery, and could even lead to disputes with local fisheries, which use the jellyfish mainly to supply the public with quality fish. it is necessary to distinguish the tac by area in the case of hake, as is done in the case of other fish stocks which are also within the scope of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − we have supported this resolution based on the fact that the commission proposes to mobilise the european solidarity fund in favour of ireland on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement (iia) of 17 may 2006. the iia allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. this proposal is the first proposal to mobilize the solidarity fund in 2010. in parallel to this proposal, the commission has presented a draft amending budget (dab no 8/2010 of 24 september 2010) in order to enter in the 2010 budget the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations as foreseen in point 26 of the iia. ireland applied for assistance from the fund following heavy rain leading to severe flooding in november 2009. the flooding caused severe damage to the agricultural sector, residential properties and businesses, to the road network and other to infrastructure.
in writing. − as on several occasions in the past we have supported this text which: 1. requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; 2. recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; emphasises the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market; 3. stresses that, in accordance with article 6 of the egf regulation, it should be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment; reiterates that assistance from the egf must not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor measures restructuring companies or sectors.
in writing. − our group has supported this text and the line taken by the rapporteur in the sense that it is in favour of the proposal presented, while considering that several points need to be taken into account for the implementation of the regulation. the rapporteur thinks a regular impact assessment should have been carried out and that the period of extension of the monopoly should not have surpassed 2013, the date of the entry into force of the new cap. however, given the importance for the small-scale distilleries of their participation in the monopoly and the need for further transition towards the market and given the fact that reports presented do not demonstrate an infringement of competition in the single market, the rapporteur is ready to support the proposal.
in writing. − this text basically concerns the proposal inviting the council and parliament to authorise the addition of a further 718 pharmaceutical and chemical products to the already existing list of 8 619 products benefiting from bound duty-free treatment upon importation into the eu. it is rather a technical text. our group has voted in favour.
in writing. − the renewal of the eu-ukraine agreement on scientific and technological cooperation is of paramount importance in order to further facilitate cooperation in common priority areas of science and technology that bring socioeconomic benefits to both parties. that is why i support parliament's approval of the renewal of the agreement, in line with what we had already decided in the itre committee. this agreement should allow ukraine and the eu to derive mutual benefits from the scientific and technical progress achieved through their research programmes, while allowing for the transfer of knowledge for the benefit of the scientific community, industry and citizens. as regards concrete achievements, the renewal of the agreement will allow for the continuation of the exchange of information on eu-ukraine science and technology policies; the participation of ukraine in certain areas of the european framework programme for research and technological development or the training through mobility programmes of researchers and specialists from both sides, among others.
in writing. − very easy vote, this one. we simply had to agree, and we did.
in writing. − having regard to the draft council decision (11365/2010), the draft agreement between the european union and the government of the faeroes on scientific and technological cooperation, associating the faeroe islands to the union’s seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013) (05475/2010), and to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0184/2010). having regard as well to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of parliament’s rules of procedure, and to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0303/2010), we have agreed to the following: 1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the faeroes.
in writing. − the eu and japan face very similar challenges in terms of economic growth and industrial competitiveness. moreover, the need for socioeconomic readjustment resulting from the ageing of their societies and the current economic crisis means that both countries face similar realities and have similar priorities in research, development and innovation. my vote in favour of this recommendation, which grants parliament's approval for the conclusion of the eu-japan agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, is motivated by the need to exploit to the full the potential of cooperation between these two actors in the scientific and technical fields. the agreement, which is for a period of five years, is intended to be mutually beneficial and provides for regular meetings between the eu and japan, which will be able to plan specific cooperation activities, including coordinated calls. this should allow the eu and japan, which already cooperate on major projects such as iter, to further deepen their cooperation in areas of common interest such as life sciences, information and communication, manufacturing technologies or the environment, including climate change and renewable energy.
in writing. − with this vote, the european parliament – having regard to the draft council decision (11363/2010), having regard to the draft agreement between the european community and the government of japan on cooperation in science and technology (13753/2009), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0183/2010), having regard to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0302/2010), 1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of japan.
in writing. − scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and jordan is a priority in the euro-mediterranean partnership agreement between the two parties, in force since 2002. as a consequence, negotiations for the establishment of a scientific cooperation agreement between the eu and jordan were launched in 2007. parliament's approval for the conclusion of the agreement is a step in the right direction. my support for the conclusion of the agreement is based on the conviction that it will bring the eu closer to a country, jordan, with significant scientific and technological capabilities. jordan has a large network of universities and research centres. in addition, it is expected that jordan will be able to act as a catalyst for scientific cooperation in its region. the country has a strategic research planning and is able to cooperate internationally in sectors such as energy, sustainable development, health or agriculture, among others. these areas are in line with the european priorities reflected in the seventh framework programme. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the agreement to include the mediterranean countries, which are not yet members of the european union.
in writing. − with this vote, the european parliament – having regard to the draft council decision (11362/2010), having regard to the draft agreement between the european community and the hashemite kingdom of jordan on scientific and technological cooperation (11790/2009), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0182/2010), having regard to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0304/2010), 1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the hashemite kingdom of jordan.
in writing. − the fisheries agreement between the european community and the solomon islands expired last october. the new protocol is valid from 9 october 2009 to 8 october 2012 and is already provisionally applied pending the european parliament consent procedure. according to article 43, paragraph 2 and article 218, paragraph 6(a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament can either consent or decline to consent. although the majority of the ep has voted in favour, our group, the greens/efa, has voted against.
in writing. − we are in the majority in parliament voting in favour of this text, which states that the european parliament, having regard to the commission proposal to the council (com(2010)0331), having regard to article 113 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union pursuant to which the council consulted parliament (c7-0173/2010), having regard to the opinion of the european economic and social committee, having regard to rule 55 of its rules of procedure, and having regard to the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (a7-0325/2010), approves the commission proposal as amended; calls on the commission to alter its proposal accordingly, in accordance with article 293(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; calls on the council to notify parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by parliament; asks the council to consult parliament again if it intends to amend the commission proposal substantially; instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments.
in writing. − this report evaluates the 2009 annual report of the european central bank (ecb) and the work done by the ecb during that year. as the statement of the european parliament on the ecb annual report 2008 had been delayed due to the elections in 2009, not much time has passed since the european parliament’s last statement on ecb activity. the report on 2008 dealt mainly with the performance of the ecb in the financial and economic crisis. unfortunately, the situation has not changed since then. still, economic, financial and to an increasing extent political actions are widely dominated by the crisis. the ecb annual report 2009 therefore still deals primarily with the ecb’s reaction to the crisis, the exit strategy and governance topics.
in writing. − we abstained on this report because we keep seeing too much effort being focused on military capacities, and too little on the civilian and prevention activities.
in writing. - this debate on the situation of anchovy and the recovery plan is, as has been said, a turning point both for the species and for the relations between the council, parliament and the european commission. our group has supported the commission's precautionary proposals on this subject from the outset, particularly with regard to: 1) the exploitation formula (which we advocate not to exceed 0.3); 2) the fact that the tac takes into account live bait; and 3) the fact that the tac reduction, if it is estimated that it should be reduced, should be at least 25%. the three questions were finally accepted by the majority of the members of the committee on fisheries, and i trust that this will also be the case when we vote in the house. clearly this is a paradigmatic case and i hope that we will have learned our lesson and that for once we will act as holistic doctors who heal, rather than acting as forensic doctors.
in writing. − the dispute among the institutions centres around what part of the fisheries management plan is related to setting the tac, and therefore is the sole responsibility of the council. a few member states think that council alone should decide the whole plan, but that view is not widely supported, not even by the council’s legal service. most feel that the mathematical rule that sets the tac should be decided by the council, rather than by codecision. on 1 december 2009, the day on which the lisbon treaty entered into force, the committee on fisheries had an ‘indicative vote’ on the amendment that had been tabled by mr gallagher and others, but we did not proceed to the final vote on the draft report as amended. the aim was to give the rapporteurs (mr gallagher on horse mackerel and ms bilbao barandica on anchovy) a political mandate to negotiate with the council. finally, after almost a year of dithering on the part of the council, the committee on fisheries decided to proceed to a full vote in committee to put pressure on the council to move.
in writing. − the detailed technical rules for fishing in the baltic sea (mesh size, closed areas, etc) are included in council regulation 2187/2005. however, prior to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the council often took short-cut measures to adopt such rules quickly by including them in the regulation on quotas. for instance, council regulation (ec) no 1226/2009 fixing quotas for 2010 has provisions related to technical measures, namely article 7 on the prohibition of high grading, and in annex iii on the restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot. after lisbon, this is no longer legal, so council regulation 2187/2005 must be amended. that is the sole purpose of this proposal, and it was adopted unanimously in the committee on fisheries.
in writing. − the commission’s proposal deals with amendments to a regulation on the use of alien species in aquaculture based on the impasse project, which focussed on the environmental impact of alien species. this project has produced an operational definition of a closed aquaculture facility, which tightens up and enlarges upon the definition currently in use and embodies an approach whereby the degree of risk associated with alien species could be reduced considerably. in the light of the above results the commission is proposing that introductions and translocations involving the use of closed aquaculture facilities be exempted from the permit requirement, thus dispensing operators from that administrative formality. as the rapporteur notes, the introduction of alien species is one of the main reasons why ecosystems are being thrown out of kilter and, along with the destruction of natural habitats, one of the biggest contributory factors implicated in global biodiversity loss. many of these introductions into europe’s coastal seas and inland waters are due to ‘aquaculture and stocking practices’. with this in mind, the rapporteur tabled an amendment to specify that ‘closed aquaculture facilities’ were limited to those on land, in order to reduce the possible survival of escapes. other amendments concerned the comitology provisions.
in writing. − the end of aid for the closure of uncompetitive coal mines by 2014 - the date proposed by the commission - would have serious socioeconomic consequences in certain regions of the eu where mining remains an important source of employment. the importance of parliament's position is that it has asked for the date to be postponed until 2018. my vote reflects the conviction that the closure of these mines must be postponed to allow the regions and states concerned - mainly spain, germany and romania - the time needed to carry out the necessary conversion in a time of crisis such as the present one. this conversion must consist, on the one hand, in the transition to sustainable economic activities that create quality jobs and, on the other hand, and where possible, in the establishment of a more competitive and sustainable extraction of coal and the less polluting use of this mineral. to this end, the itre committee must support research and innovation such as co2 capture and storage and those aimed at achieving combustion that is more environmentally friendly.
in writing. − today’s vote is in conflict with the eu’s economic, energy and climate change interests. subsidising uncompetitive coal mines is a waste of billions of euros of public money, particularly in the context of current pressures on public finances. prolonging operational aid to coal mines fails to address the legitimate concerns of coal workers for their futures. instead, it risks delaying the transition towards a green economy – with a future energy sector based on energy efficiency and renewable energy – which will ensure the creation of thousands of new, sustainable jobs in former coal-producing regions.
in writing. − i applaud this resolution, led by our colleague eva joly, where it states that it welcomes the fact that in 2009 the jpa continued to provide a framework for an open, democratic and in-depth dialogue between the european union and the acp countries and calls for an enhanced political dialogue, welcomes the new commissioner for trade’s positive response to the request by several acp countries and regions for a review of the contentious issues raised during negotiations on the epa, in line with the statements made by the president of the commission, and underlines the need for close parliamentary monitoring of the negotiations and implementation of the epa.
in writing. − this is a good regulation calling mainly for the use of every possible means to nurture a european judicial culture, particularly through legal education and training.
mr president of parliament, mr wathelet, president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, my group wants a normal budget for 2011. my colleague, sidonia skrzydlewska, and mrs helga truppel have made a great effort to present a viable proposal, which is agreed by all the political forces and which is consistent with the need for austerity which the member states are calling for. we members of the european parliament are not from the planet mars. we are germans, englishmen, swedes, hungarians and spaniards, and we know and suffer from the situation of very serious economic and financial crisis in our own countries. but we believe that a strong and well-financed european budget is a valuable and indispensable instrument for the economic revival of the european union. the blocking, reducing and denaturing of the european budget is, paradoxically, against the interests of 27 member states and 500 million citizens. without flexibility for the next three years we will not implement the post-lisbon policies. without political agreement between the european parliament and the council on own resources or cooperation in the next multiannual financial framework, there will be no political or financial stability. it is not simply a question of rights but of common interest. the european socialists and the greens are legitimate enough to come to this house to make political opposition, against who knows who. but that does not benefit anyone, not even the 'cohesion countries'. although there are now many political leaders interested in the 2011 budget, i want to remind you of my political experience of 14 years of budgetary conciliation. never, nothing that has been achieved in budgets in these years has been achieved by confrontation. we have always achieved things by cooperation. maximalist positions in this house or in the justus lipsius, which are also there, are of no use for practical purposes.
mr president, at this time of crisis we are in there are two main types of policies and actions: preventive policies and actions and policies and actions to boost. preventive policies are what are involved right now with oversight of financial services, with governance and strengthening governance. i mean, with everything that's going to alert us that there are problems before the problems spill over into european economies. but the second type of policy - the policy of impetus - is fundamental. and in those policies, mr president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, there are three fundamental aspects. there are many, of course, but i will mention three: research and innovation, the development of a digital society - that is, the digital agenda - and the internal market. and as regards the first, 'research and innovation', this is where i find the shortcomings in the work programme presented by the commission. president barroso said earlier that the specific programmes would come in mid-2011, but i think that is not enough. i can assure you that my group and i would have liked to see a reference already to the eighth framework research programme, which is not in your proposal.
in writing. − according to article 37(1) of the financial regulation, the commission may present draft amending budgets if there are ‘unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances’. concerning the different points of draft amending budget no 8/2010, the report that we adopted refers to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund. the european commission proposed on 24 september 2010 a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, which is based on the provisions of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the conditions of the eligibility to the fund are detailed here and as well as in council regulation no 2012/2002 establishing the eusf. it is important to note that the objective of the fund is not the compensation for private damage but to repair infrastructure and it is a tool of refinancing.
in writing. − this report refers to the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the general principles for the participation of the republic of moldova in union programmes. by voting in favor, the ep consents to the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. − we decided we would vote in favour or abstain depending on the result of the third part of amendment 31, which ensures that pharmaceutical companies can only provide information material to health professionals for their own use, not for patients via healthcare professionals. this was key for the greens/efa. as it was finally adopted, we decided to support the report in the final vote.
in writing. − this report welcomes the proposal by the commission on information to patients on prescription-only medicines (com(2008)0662-0663). the parliament and patient organizations have been asking for such a proposal for a long time, in order to enable patients to better informed on the medicines they are prescribed and taking. increased access to quality information will contribute to achieving better health outcome for patients as better informed patients are more likely to continue necessary treatments and better understand decisions related to their treatment; so the proposal, if properly phrased and implemented, will bring an added value. therefore the objective of the proposal can not only be harmonisation of european legislation but also to improve health through improved health literacy. the pharmaceutical industry has an important role to play in promoting health literacy and good health, but their role must be clearly defined and their involvement strictly regulated, in order to avoid commercially driven overconsumption of pharmaceuticals.
in writing. − according to the commission, every year, in the eu alone, an estimated 9.3 million tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment (eee) are sold annually, the biggest share of which are large household appliances and it and telecommunication equipment. as the market continues to grow and innovation cycles become even shorter, the replacement of equipment accelerates, making waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) the fastest growing waste stream. weee arisings are estimated to grow to 12.3 million tonnes by 2020. weee is a complex waste stream, including several hazardous substances. these substances, or their transformation products, can be released into the environment and damage human health, especially if not treated appropriately. risks for human health and the environment are further increased by sub-standard recycling/recovery operations in developing countries. according to article 174(2) of the treaty, environmental damage should as a priority be rectified at source. the waste hierarchy in the waste framework directive gives first priority to prevention, which is defined inter alia as setting out waste prevention measures that reduce the content of harmful substances in materials and products. i really hope this report will help to solve those problems.
in writing. − the european parliament just narrowly failed to adopt a resolution demanding that the commission clarify and assess the consequences of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement acta. the numbers were 306 in favour, 322 against, with 26 abstentions. the resolution had been put forward by the green group (including the pirate party), the social democrats, the liberals and the left. instead, an alternative resolution by the christian democrat group epp and the conservative group was carried. this resolution basically welcomes what the negotiators have been doing so far, without placing any specific demands on the commission for further clarifications or assessments. this was a defeat, but it is far from the final word on the issue. the resolution has no formal effect at all, but is merely an expression of how parliament feels. the deciding vote will (probably) be some time early next year, when parliament will be asked to give its consent to the agreement. if we get a no vote then, the agreement will be scrapped. the vote today was a reminder that we will have to continue working hard to get more information on the effects of acta so that the european parliament can make an informed decision in the final consent vote.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to start by saying that i am impressed by the variety and quality of your reflections, critical comments and constructive contributions to what has been presented by the commission as a draft energy strategy for the period 2011-2020. i thank you, mrs kolarska-bobińska, for your moderation, for the clever way in which you have brought together the contributions of the members and for the priorities which are important to me personally. we shall be happy to incorporate your report into the work of the next few weeks, because we are facing busy weeks in the field of energy policy. the energy council on 3 december and the unique opportunity for the heads of state or government to take care of energy on 4 february will give us a boost to our common objectives and to our european energy policy. parliament is a key partner for me in this. we have a starting position which can be described as difficult. we have a single market which is still incomplete. for 12 years, it's been the law for electricity and gas, but it's not really reality. we still have submarkets, territorial boundaries and we must do everything we can to ensure that the single market for businesses and consumers can be implemented in the next five years with the aim of greater competition and transparency. secondly, we have a glaring lack of infrastructure. if you look at the foundations of the internal market for other products, services, goods and goods that exist - roads, railways, airways, airports, the digital world, waterways - then we are still far from what we need with our infrastructure for the transport of energy media, namely gas and electricity, for our european energy policy objectives, namely strengthening security of supply, solidarity, competition and consumer interests. we need to catch up in the next two decades with what has been built in the last two centuries for road and rail and in the last decade for the digital world. this is about acceptance in the population and transparency. we need transparency to increase acceptance of the construction of electricity and gas infrastructures, and we need the appropriate financial resources, which are paid for by the consumer through the price of energy, but which, where european interests are involved, are also a public responsibility for the european budget. thirdly, we have a largely untapped potential in the area of energy efficiency. if we are as dependent on imports as we are and want to promote sustainability, climate protection and environmental protection, we must be against energy waste and pioneers in the targeting of energy use, energy saving and greater energy efficiency in the public, industrial and private sectors. that's why energy efficiency is going to be the next item on the agenda for both of us. i look forward with great interest to parliament's own-initiative report, which is on the way to presenting our strategy for energy efficiency to the public, to you and to the council in the spring of next year. another part of our strategy is the issue of affordable energy. the belgian presidency of the council rightly points out that electricity in particular can also lead to a division of society by making energy more expensive and thus no longer available to everyone. this means that we must include in our strategies the security of supply of affordable energy for industry and jobs and for households. the research adds up. europe cannot do everything, but energy research can be a focus of european budgets in the coming years and a partnership between the public sector and the research economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a common european strategy in energy foreign policy when it comes to europe's major interests. we're still the largest energy consumer market, ahead of china, ahead of the united states. when we pool our purchasing power, our infrastructure strategies, we have authority. if the old motto divide and rule is true, the others will have an easier time playing against us. we don't want that. in this context, i would like to thank you for your many and intelligent contributions and for your report. it will be a guide for me in the further work on our strategy on the way to the european council. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job. the report before us is certainly as ambitious as it is extensive and is the result - i have to say this - of arduous and successful negotiations which led to its virtually unanimous approval by the committee on industry, research and energy. i would like to continue on with the subject and point out something we all know, but it is no exaggeration: the european energy situation is not exactly optimal. we are not only increasingly dependent on energy imports from outside our own territory, but we are also faced with the major investments required in our energy infrastructure at a time when europe is still suffering the consequences of the crisis. and all this against the background of the fact that we have not yet succeeded in implementing our own energy legislation. now, in this legislature we have an instrument which we did not have in the previous one. the lisbon treaty not only provides a number of clear objectives such as the internal energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the promotion of energy networks, but also provides the european union with a legal framework and a sound legal basis - article 194 - for action in the field of energy policy. in this new context, i ask all my colleagues to support this report, which proposes a series of measures to ensure energy supply, the full implementation of existing legislation and programmes, and stresses the need to invest in research, promote the development of pan-european energy networks and grids, and give due prominence to the creation of the internal energy market. i thank you very much and i will ask for your support for this report tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs kolarska-bobińska and also the alternative rapporteur of my group, mrs ulvskog, and the other rapporteurs on their good work. indeed, given its strategic nature, it is a long report which deals in detail with the different facets of the union's energy policy and deals with them by building the strategy on the important set of rules we have adopted over the last few years. in my brief speech i would like to stress two very important aspects of this report: interconnections and taxation. at the present time, it is very urgent to apply with determination the legislative and financial mechanisms at our disposal to strengthen in good time, and this is very important, those weak links in the transeuropean energy networks. as regards taxation, i believe that efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy require, in order to develop at the levels envisaged, not only specific taxation but also tax incentives in the form of deductions or exemptions as appropriate.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i should like to begin by saying that it seemed to me that the two speeches - by the president-in-office of the council and by the commissioner - put this cancun conference on a completely different horizon from that of copenhagen, on a much more realistic, much more viable and therefore with much greater potential for effectiveness. if copenhagen was the summit of a single letter - as the president has said - cancún must be the summit of a variety of viable and efficient options. the fight against climate change has two fundamental elements: firstly, it has to be global, it has to include all the big emitters - from the united states to brazil, china or india - and secondly, it has to be an efficient set of measures on the impact on climate change, it has to be able to measure that impact and, moreover, it does not undermine economic growth. in this sense, we must also have the modesty to recognise that the fight against climate change - this global challenge - offers a variety of technological and political options. there are binding agreements and there may be binding agreements, there are sectoral agreements, there is technology transfer, there is support for research. all options must be put into play, and this must be accompanied by a radical increase in energy efficiency in all sectors of the economy and in all sectors of society. only then will we be able to tackle the problems of climate change effectively. in that sense, if cancun is the summit of a variety of viable and efficient agreements, cancun will have been a great success.
mr president, commissioner, i share the wish of this house. i want the proposals of the europeans to get the support they deserve in cancun. in connection with this debate, the importance of cities in preserving the environment should be underlined. there is an agreement among over a thousand mayors in the european union which shows that there is a recognition of the problem by these authorities, whose action is decisive if we are to succeed. the big words we use are useless if we do not have the cooperation of the mayors of the cities. to do this, it is very important that emissions are disclosed, as cities produce almost 80% of greenhouse gases. today there is no such disclosure and, what is worse, no common standard for the measurement of these emissions. there is a non-profit organization called the co2 disclosure project that already hosts information from thousands of companies and that i think could be used by city councils as well. without your cooperation, without the cooperation of these town halls and mayors, environmental action will be reduced to a smoke, the smoke we want to escape.
madam president, commissioner, in just a few weeks the european union has been the star of a great number of summits, starting with china, then with asia, with the united states, the g20, we will shortly be going to cancun and next week to the european union-africa summit. we can think of this as a mere matter of calendar, a routine succession of summits that we face every year, every so often. or we can think of it as summits where we have to move forward in content, where we have to introduce the reforms necessary to deal with a world that is changing, in its problems, in its responses and in its actors. that is how we should take the next european union-africa summit. we have 80 countries here, one third of the united nations, 1.5 billion people, one in four. unfortunately, we cannot say that there is the same ratio of gross domestic product, because among the 53 african countries are some of the poorest in the world. what do we have to do to improve our action? first, focusing our priorities: more infrastructure, more food security, more support for governance. secondly, to concentrate our aid instruments, to support civil society, to support private initiative and to strengthen the role of the european parliament and the pan-african parliament. and finally, to join africa in a series of strategic relationships. for example, in international financial institutions. the reform of the world bank has given more power to emerging countries, but it has taken it away from africa. the president of the world bank said in april: "we have today made the 'third world' a concept that will go down in the history books". unfortunately, it is not, but we can do something to make this a reality in the near future.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, it is said that the philosopher aristotle was walking in his famous peripatetic school with his pupils when one of them made an observation that displeased the teacher and, to excuse himself, said: this observation is not mine, it is his teacher plato. then aristotle stood up and uttered a phrase that has echoed and resonated on the european stage from the fourth century b.c. to our day. he said, "i'm a friend of plato, but i'm a friend of truth". morocco, madam president, is a positive and active partner of the european union, and it is also a key strategic ally in containing radical islamic fundamentalism, but this parliament - as president sarkozy said in his address - is the institution where the democratic pulse of the european union beats and has an unwavering and unwavering commitment to the cause of human rights. so if those rights are unknown, you cannot stand back, you cannot look away, you have to speak up and say, firmly and clearly, what are the principles that inspire us. the european union, madam president, has been, is and will be a loyal partner of morocco, but this partnership is based on principles and values, and we must proclaim these principles and values. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that moderation in character or temperament is always a virtue, but moderation, madam president, in defending human rights and fundamental freedoms, and particularly freedom of expression, is always a vice, it is always a weakness and it is always a cowardice which we, as representatives of the citizens of the european union, cannot allow ourselves.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate you on the fact that we finally have the opportunity to talk about western sahara and to vote on a resolution. for once the pressure from morocco has not succeeded as it has on other occasions. and i think that is good for the credibility of the parliament, but also for the transparency of what is happening in western sahara. secondly, i want to condemn loudly, clearly and firmly the irresponsible and provocative way in which the gdeim izi camp was dismantled. it is true that violence has come from many sides, but to put those who defend themselves against aggression on the same level as those who repress, persecute and torture them seems to me completely unjustifiable. that is why we are demanding an independent investigation under the auspices of the united nations. we are not facing a conflict between equals, not everyone has the same responsibility and not everyone in this conflict acts with the same strategies or the same weapons. we must appeal to all parties for calm, yes, but above all we must demand that the kingdom of morocco cease its hostile attitude towards the saharawi people, that it ceases to harass parliamentarians, the media or human rights defenders. and the european union cannot continue to be complicit in this blindness, as if nothing had happened. as the european union we have a great historical responsibility, and especially some countries like spain and france. let us act sensibly, as minister trinidad jiménez asked us to do, but the sensible thing today is to say 'enough' to the moroccan regime. it is very good to want to have good trade relations with morocco. it is necessary and it is positive. but not at the expense of human rights or breaking international law. a just, sustainable and mutually acceptable solution, mrs jiménez, mrs ashton, is needed so that the referendum on self-determination can be held. let's make it happen!
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, i would like to begin with the obvious: we should tell the kingdom of morocco that this is not its parliament. this parliament has sovereignty based on european citizenship and therefore sets its agenda, sets its topics, sets its resolutions and it is unacceptable that the administration of the kingdom of morocco is constantly meddling with this institution; it is unacceptable. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the basic issue is that we are facing a military, police and moroccan settler occupation, an illegal occupation of 'non-self-governing territory', as defined by international law. morocco has no sovereignty over western sahara, it does not have it. it cannot apply its laws, it cannot apply its sovereignty and therefore this parliament must send a very clear message to the international community and to the saharawi people, who are the ones who have to decide their future by means of a referendum on self-determination, which is what the united nations security council has agreed. and all the outrages, all the repression that is taking place in western sahara by the moroccan administration has only one objective: that they cannot exercise their right to self-determination. the european parliament must therefore be more firm in defending this right, in standing with the saharawis, in denouncing the abuses. the dissolution of camp dignity should never have been allowed to happen. i went a few hours earlier, i am an elected official and i was prevented from getting off a spanish plane so that i could witness what unfortunately was going to happen hours later, because they don't want witnesses. they have a lot to hide and this parliament cannot be complicit in the systematic concealment of all that this repression and the association agreement mean, ladies and gentlemen, mrs asthon - unfortunately absent - when will it be frozen, when will it be realized that this path is unacceptable? i think that this parliament must speak loud and clear, ladies and gentlemen.
madam president, the violence that has shaken western sahara, which we condemn in the strongest terms, as we deplore the loss of human lives and demand respect for human rights, must not be allowed to flare up again. a final, just and mutually acceptable solution is needed within the framework of the united nations to a conflict which has lasted for more than 30 years and which is condemning thousands of sahrawi refugees to despair and instability in a neighbouring area of fundamental importance to the european union. we therefore call on morocco, which is an advanced and reliable partner of the european union, with whom we share enormous interests and projects, to redouble its efforts to reach a negotiated settlement to the conflict. we call on the saharawi people and their representatives, with whose circumstances we are in solidarity, to remain calm and to maintain this dialogue in an open and constructive spirit. we call on the european union to join the efforts of the group of countries friendly to the sahara, including my own country, spain, in facilitating such a dialogue as a valid partner in the region. the opening of a moroccan parliamentary inquiry into the events in the sahara and the willingness of the moroccan authorities to inform this parliament of what has happened are important signs which we appreciate, but they are no substitute for a policy of transparency in information which ensures the presence of all the media in the area. the resolution we are adopting tomorrow is the result of a complex process of consultation and is proof of the concern of this parliament for stability in the maghreb and for human rights, and it also proves the commitment to a negotiated end to the conflict, without preconditions, but on the basis of the united nations security council resolutions which enshrine the right of self-determination of the saharawi people.
madam president, we must condemn the moroccan authorities for the attack on the agdeim izik camp, which led to the serious incidents in el aaiun. the individual rights of the saharawi citizens, who were peacefully calling for social improvements, have been violated. freedom of the press and information has also been restricted, and dozens of members of this and other houses of parliament and also of my country's parliament, the basque parliament, have been prevented from entering the area. there is no reliable information, so we ask the united nations to officially investigate what happened. we still know that there have been deaths, injuries and hundreds of arrests. we regret all the deaths that occurred in this episode because all of them - be they moroccan police or sahrawi activists - are irreparable. my sympathies go out to the families of all of them. the camp was attacked on the day the third round of informal meetings on the status of western sahara in new york was beginning. this aggression does not lead to dialogue, agreements or peace; on the contrary, it hinders a peaceful and just solution to the occupation of western sahara. i want to ask the parties to calm down. the resolution of this problem requires a permanent dialogue between morocco and the saharawi people, based on mutual respect and with the aim of implementing the united nations resolutions which include the exercise of the right of self-determination of the saharawi people. and i end with a self-criticism: we must always criticize violations of human rights. it does not matter who, where, how or why they are involved, because democratic principles and values must always be above interests. that is why i am calling for a greater commitment from the european union.
madam president, thousands of saharawis left their cities and peacefully set up the agdeim izik camp to demand better living conditions. the moroccan security forces violently dismantled the camp and as a result serious riots broke out in el aaiun. the moroccan armed forces killed a young saharawi and a spanish citizen died in unclear circumstances. at the moment, there are no reliable figures on the number of dead, injured, missing or detained in these riots. in addition, several members of the european parliament and journalists have been banned from entering the sahara, and even today they are having serious difficulties in carrying out their work. morocco is a friend of europe, a strategic ally, and it is not good for friends to have doubts or misunderstandings. if morocco has nothing to hide, it must allow what happened to be clarified. that is why, although it is true that the moroccan parliament has set up a committee of inquiry, i believe it is essential that an international committee be set up, that european politicians and journalists have free access to the territory and that minurso extend its mandate to the protection of human rights, both in the territory controlled by morocco and in the territory controlled by the polisario. in the face of this situation, the commission and the european governments cannot look the other way, and first of all the spanish government. realpolitik must not be an excuse to turn a blind eye; they must demand that these serious events be clarified and ask morocco and the polisario to resume talks as soon as possible in order to reach a peaceful agreement on the basis of the united nations resolutions.
madam president, on 18 november, in the spanish parliament, minister jiménez insisted on the hague opinion that decolonization has not yet been carried out and that there can be no assimilation of identity with morocco. 35 years of suffering and occupation without legal title. the camp is a paradigm of the distance between morocco and the saharawi people, because of the many settlers and soldiers who have introduced into the territory from which they expelled thousands of its genuine inhabitants. morocco represses with hatred those who know a different people. then colonial trials will follow, like the one on november 5 in casablanca, where foreign and european observers were beaten. let us prevent the liquidation of a worthy, heroic, friend of europe!
the following is the joint debate on the reports on the european ombudsman and the application of european union law: report by mariya nedelcheva, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2009 (2010/2059 ((ini)) (a7-0275/2010), report by chrysoula paliadeli, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the special report of the european ombudsman following the draft recommendation to the european commission on complaint 676/2008/rt (2010/2086 ((ini)) (a7-0293/2010), and report by eva lichtenberger, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the 26th annual report of the european ombudsman on the monitoring of the application of community law (2008) (com (2008) 06759) 2010/2076 (ini)) (a7-0291/2010).
ombudsman. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to address you. i wish to thank the committee on petitions, and especially the chair, mrs mazzoni. they continue to offer me valuable support and advice, as evidenced by the excellent reports submitted to this chamber by mrs nedelcheva and mrs paliadeli, whom i thank warmly for their kind words. parliament and the ombudsman both work to ensure that citizens and residents of the eu can enjoy their rights to the full, but we do so in different ways. the ombudsman’s mandate is more limited. i only deal with complaints against eu institutions, whilst you can also examine what member states are doing. furthermore, parliament as a sovereign political body can deal with petitions that request changes in the law, or new laws. in contrast, my role is to help uncover maladministration and to attempt to put it right. unlike court rulings, an ombudsman’s decisions are not legally binding. i can only use the power of persuasion to convince the eu institutions to follow my recommendations, or to achieve friendly solutions which can satisfy both sides. where eu institutions refuse to follow my recommendations, it is of fundamental importance that the ombudsman can turn to parliament to seek its support, and i am naturally very grateful that parliament continues to do so, as evidenced by the nedelcheva and paliadeli reports. this is the first annual report presented to you since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i will continue to work in close cooperation with parliament in order to further our common goal of providing european citizens with the maximum possible benefits from their rights under the treaty, acting always in accordance with my mandate as an independent and impartial investigator of alleged maladministration – an independence and impartiality which applies equally to the complainant as well as to the institution complained against. in 2009, my office closed 318 inquires, 70% of which were completed within one year. 55% were completed within three months. on average, inquiries took nine months to complete, which was well within my standard goal of completing inquiries within one year. i am pleased to note that, in 2009, 56% of all investigations were either settled by the institution or resulted in a friendly solution. this represents a large improvement over 2008, when the percentage was 36%. in 35 cases i issued a critical remark. this is a significant improvement compared to 2008, when i issued 44 critical remarks, or even 2007, when i issued 55. the sustained reduction is good news, but this is still too many. honourable members, i make efforts to help every complainant who turns to the ombudsman, even in cases where the complaint is not within my mandate. in 2009, i received a total of 2 392 such complaints, a 6% decline compared to 2008. this decline is encouraging news. reducing the number of inadmissible complaints has been a long-standing request of parliament. i attribute this result at least in part to the fact that more citizens are finding the right address to turn to the first time around. in january 2009, i launched an interactive guide on my new website, which is accessible in all 23 eu languages. this guide aims to direct complainants to the body best placed to help them, whether it be my own services, the services of national or regional ombudsmen in the member states, or problem-solving mechanisms such as the crossborder online network solvit. during 2009 the guide was used by more than 26 000 people. it is very important for citizens to be guided to the most appropriate complaint-handling body from the outset and to be spared the frustrations and delays associated with having to identify the right institution on their own. this also means that complaints are resolved more promptly and effectively, thus ensuring that citizens can fully enjoy their rights under eu law and also that eu law is properly implemented. over the last three years i have also made strenuous efforts to raise awareness about the services i can offer to businesses, associations, ngos, regional authorities and other target groups, that is anybody who is involved in eu projects or programmes and who has direct dealings with the eu administration. to further ensure awareness of the ombudsman’s work i stepped up cooperation during 2009 with other information and problem-solving networks such as europe direct and solvit. i also intensified my efforts to reach out to potential complainants by organising a range of public events; all these outreach activities, combined with the solid results obtained for complainants, resulted in median coverage of the ombudsman’s work increasing by 85%. the number of enquiries opened, based on complaints received in 2009, rose from 293 to 335. this increase must be at least partly attributed to outreach activities. i have also continued my efforts to improve the quality of information provided to citizens and potential complainants concerning their rights under eu law through the european network of ombudsmen which greatly helps to facilitate the rapid transfer of complaints to the competent ombudsman or similar body. furthermore, i continued to strive to make certain that eu institutions adopt a citizen-centred approach in all their activities. this is a task that must be tackled in tandem with the institutions. to promote this goal with respect to the commission i am in close contact with the vice-president of the commission responsible for relations with the ombudsman, commissioner šefčovič, who i thank for his presence here today, and i am grateful for his close cooperation and support to date. the most common allegation i examined in 2009 was lack of transparency. this arose in 36% of all enquiries. it is with a certain degree of concern that i note the continuing high percentage of such complaints. an accountable and transparent eu administration is surely key to building citizens’ trust. i also regret the lengthy delays by the commission in responding to access to document cases. the most outrageous case is dealt with in mrs paliadeli’s report which makes clear that parliament expects substantial improvement from the commission in this regard. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty was the key event of 2009. the treaty makes new promises to citizens concerning fundamental rights, enhanced transparency and greater opportunities for participation in the union’s policy-making. it also makes the charter of fundamental rights including the right to good administration legally binding. reform of the financial regulation offers an additional excellent opportunity to put the fundamental right to good administration into practice. i believe that the relevant rules should provide guidance to officials as to how they should ensure both sound financial management and good administration. honourable members, i developed and recently adopted a strategy to cover the whole period of my mandate. the document containing it was circulated during this past week to your bureau, the conference of presidents and the committee on petitions for information. the strategy is designed to implement the mission statement for my institution which i adopted in 2009 and which reads as follows. ‘the european ombudsman seeks fair outcomes to complaints against european union institutions, encourages transparency and promotes an administrative culture of service. he aims to build trust through dialogue, between citizens and the european union and to foster the highest standards of behaviour in the union’s institutions’. it is within this spirit, mr president, honourable members, this spirit of the commission statement that i will continue to work in carrying out the mandate which this august body has entrusted me with.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, please bear with me because i will try to respond to our three rapporteurs and the ombudsman. i would like to start by thanking ms nedelcheva, ms paliadeli and ms lichtenberger for their reports. it is very clear that we share the same goals: namely that administration should be efficient and professional and that european law be respected. that is the basis on which we intend to discuss these matters and, i am sure, to seek a positive result. turning to mr diamandouros, i would also like to express my appreciation for his close cooperation with the commission. i think this is a special day for him because he can see that his work is also very highly appreciated by the european parliament. i can assure you that the communication between us and between our services is very intense. hardly a week passes when i do not send a letter of explanation to the ombudsman and get a response from him. this is how we try to find the right solutions in our work. of course there are some outstanding issues, on which we are working, but i think that is simply proof of our fruitful communication. i would like to emphasise that the commission welcomes ms nedelcheva’s report, which offers a clear and exhaustive overview of the ombudsman’s activities for the past year. in fact, in the ombudsman’s report on his 2009 activities, the results of his various inquiries are clearly presented, illustrated with examples and classified into categories according to the nature of the cases of maladministration or the institution concerned. as mr diamandouros has already said, in 2009 the ombudsman recorded a total of 3098 complaints, as against 3406 in 2008. this represents a 9% decrease on the year, but we are fully aware that 56% of the inquiries were addressed to the commission. we are also aware that the most frequent claims for maladministration concern a lack of transparency, including refusal to provide information, and i am committed to tackling such cases further. the commission welcomes the efforts made by the ombudsman to further reduce the average length of his inquiries to nine months. the commission stresses, however, that its own deadlines for internal consultation and for the college of commissioners to endorse its replies should be taken into consideration by the ombudsman in his efforts to reduce the time for dealing with a complaint. each response is confirmed and endorsed by the college, and it takes some time to reach the college. it should be noted that the ombudsman has conducted an intensive information campaign, which has resulted in greater awareness of citizens’ rights and better understanding of his spheres of competence. in this regard, the ombudsman tends readily to issue press releases, and these are often published at a stage when the ombudsman has just sent the commission a draft recommendation, thus leaving no room for the commission for defence, since its reply is still ongoing. in some cases, a friendly solution may be found if the institution offers redress to the complainant. this solution is freely offered, without involving liability issues or setting a legal precedent. if a friendly solution cannot be found, the ombudsman can make recommendations to resolve the case. if the institution does not accept his recommendations, he can make a special report to parliament. in 2009 there were no special reports sent to parliament by the ombudsman. a special report was sent to parliament in 2010 regarding a complaint on access to commission documents. relations with the ombudsman have occasionally given rise to differences of opinion. this has been the case with inquiries concerning infringement procedures. the ombudsman often argues that the commission has not provided a sufficient explanation of its position, which clearly requires a response from the commission on the substantive content of its reasoning and comes close to a debate on the merits of the commission’s line. however, the commission has tended to respond at great length to the ombudsman, setting out in detail, and backing up, the interpretations of the law that have been applied, while adding a disclaimer about differences in interpretation of the law and stressing that the final arbiter is the european court of justice. given the developments which have occurred in recent years on the registering and treatment of complaints (the ‘eu pilot’ project), as confirmed in its annual report on monitoring the application of eu law in 2009, the commission would like, in the near future, to update its communication of 23 march 2002 on relations with the complainant in respect of infringements of community law. i have personally met the ombudsman and was able to inform him about these developments. in the field of transparency and access to documents, the commission thoroughly examines all the complaints addressed to it by the ombudsman. one of these cases led the ombudsman to submit in 2010 a special report to parliament and this is the subject of ms paliadeli’s report. i regret that this special report was sent shortly after the commission had taken a final decision in the case. nevertheless, i acknowledge that the time taken for reaching this decision was excessive, even if it was due to the failure of the third party to respond to the commission’s proposal. i would like to stress that the commission is fully committed to sincerely cooperating with the ombudsman. there is no question of unwillingness to cooperate on the part of the commission and certainly no intention to obstruct the ombudsman’s work in any way. the commission always strives to cooperate closely with the ombudsman. however, some requests for access to documents are particularly complex or voluminous and cannot be handled within normal time-frames. the commission handles around 5000 access requests per year, of which only 15 to 20 lead to complaints to the ombudsman. the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union has made it possible to start thinking about how to achieve a common approach in order to establish an open, effective and independent european administration. the commission therefore considers that an interinstitutional dialogue is needed before presenting any legislative proposal. a positive outcome here seems possible, and cooperation between the two institutions on the matter should ensure it. if you will allow me, mr president, i will also respond to ms lichtenberger because she has made a great effort to be here this morning. i would like to assure her that the commission attaches great importance to the correct application of eu law and, as you know, this was among the priorities of the barroso commission. already in our communication ‘a europe of results’, in 2007, the commission committed itself to improving its working methods to ensure the more efficient pursuit of problems arising in the application of eu law, focusing on the issues which cause the most problems for citizens and businesses. i said in this communication that the annual report represents more of a strategic evaluation of the application of eu law, identifying the main challenges, setting priorities and programming work according to those priorities. the commission welcomes parliament’s response to this report. the following remarks pick up on some of the key issues. concerning the provision of information on infringements, the commission is in the process of implementing the new framework agreement with parliament. it is committed to providing parliament with the information set out in that agreement. the commission also looks forward to associating parliament with its work on the ‘your europe’ portal to ensure that citizens know where to go to find the information that they seek. we welcome parliament’s recognition of the contribution of the eu pilot project to a properly functioning, citizen-focused european union, in accordance with the lisbon treaty. this project is designed to ensure that citizens’ concerns and complaints about the application of eu law are followed up, and that is, of course, a major consideration for us. in doing this work, the commission has to respect the confidentiality to which the court of justice has confirmed that the member states are entitled concerning the investigation of alleged application issues and potential infringement proceedings. therefore, while the commission provided extensive information in its report adopted in march this year on the functioning of the eu pilot project, it does not grant access to, or divulge information on, the particular cases being handled under eu pilot. at the same time, the commission recognises the importance of ensuring the timely provision to citizens of a full and clear evaluation of the outcome of work done with the member states in eu pilot, and it is committed to ensuring that complainants have an opportunity to comment on the outcome. on the question of the adoption of the procedural code under article 298, the commission understands that a working group has been set up in parliament to study the potential scope and content of such an initiative. the commission also considers it appropriate to weigh the outcome of initial work on the overall issue before considering any more specific elements. for the moment, therefore, we reserve our position on all aspects. the commission is also preparing to provide up-to-date information on the resources devoted to the application of eu law. the draft resolution being discussed today covers a wide range of issues and, in its response to the resolution, the commission will provide additional explanations which would be very difficult to provide today, mainly through lack of time. mr president, honourable members, we are glad to share the common interest in the current application of eu law for the benefit of eu citizens and businesses. the effective application of eu law is one of the cornerstones of the eu, as a well as a key component of smart regulation. i would like to apologise to the interpreters for speaking so quickly. thank you very much for your patience, and thanks to all of you for your attention.
yes, i am afraid you did have a slight tendency to accelerate. thank you.
i would like to thank mrs nedelcheva for this report, which gives us a lot of information from the committee on petitions about the ombudsman's work. this is a very descriptive report of all the activity in 2009 and it contains a large number of all the complaints, which have decreased by 9% compared to the previous year, and are related, in more than half of the cases, to the european commission. i believe that the complaints to the ombudsman are about bad administrative practices, such as lack of transparency and refusal of access to documents. we can be satisfied that a large proportion of these complaints are resolved by the ombudsman's own management and that we are therefore on the right track. in relation to the objectives for 2010, which were summarised in 5 objectives, listening openly to suggestions to identify best practices, complying to find ways of achieving results more quickly, persuading to be able to have a more favourable impact on the administrative culture of the institutions, communicating in timely, useful, quickly accessible information, adapting to make good management of resources, efficiency and effectiveness. i believe that these objectives which were set for 2010 are extremely timely. we have to update the mechanisms that allow us to solve the cases of opacity, of lack of information, which are undoubtedly occurring. we have the example of the paliadeli report, in connection with the porsche case, and since the porsche car company refused, or rather the commission refused, to publish some of the letters from this company, it is necessary for us, the european parliament, to support the ombudsman, and for the ombudsman also to rely on the european parliament to obtain more information on these matters. the recent decision of the court of justice of the european union to annul the commission's decision to publish the list of recipients of cap aid is very worrying. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
madam president, good afternoon. i regret that mr vidal-quadras is no longer the president of the sitting, because i am sure he would have appreciated my intervention. first of all, i would like to thank the european ombudsman for his work and encourage him to continue to defend with courage the rights of european citizens, who are often threatened by some public administrations. i would like to remind you that a valencian cultural association has collected 650 000 signatures in favour of a legislative initiative to guarantee the reception of radio and television in catalan. it is simply a matter of complying with article 12.2 of the european charter for regional or minority languages of the council of europe and the audiovisual media services without frontiers directive. the spanish government has refused to take these 650 000 signatures into account. let us hope that the european ombudsman will welcome them and protect the rights of these 650 000 european citizens who are covered by european law.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has drawn up two legislative proposals, two proposals for regulations which are before this house to replace the regulations which are now coming to an end. from the time the first regulations were adopted to the present time, there has been a lot of rain. there have been important changes in legislation, especially the 2003 modernization package, there have been landmark court decisions in this area and the commission has learned a lot from practice, which is also important. the commission has opened two rounds of consultations with the interested parties, which is good practice in this spirit of good lawmaking and public opinion. the big question now is: what use are you going to make of the answers of the people concerned in this consultation? in this context, what parliament and the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy want to know is essentially six things. what are the suggestions, the concrete ideas put forward by the interested parties that the commission will take into account when designing, defining these regulations, that these regulations will move from the muses to the theatre? secondly, what is the commission's view of horizontal agreements which are not covered by the specialisation or development research exemption regulations? what have the stakeholders told you in this round of consultations? what would be the advantages from the point of view of industry, the real economy and the defence of competition, of proposing new regulations to take account of horizontal agreements which are not covered by the two block exemption regulations we are currently considering? does the commission intend to make new regulations to address them? - yes or no? the question is relatively clear. the third problem which has been discussed for a long time in the committee on economic and monetary affairs is the subject of the so-called 'patent ambushes' which occur, as the commissioner knows, when one of the companies involved in the establishment of standards withholds information about the patents it holds or intends to register in the future, with serious damage, great inconvenience, for those companies which, unaware of this information, undertake to act in accordance with the established parameters. the question here is relatively specific: 'we are faced with a case of distortion of competition, of barriers in the internal market, which is the capital sin in our institution': does the commission intend to tackle the problem of 'patent ambushes' in the framework of the new draft regulations or, on the contrary, does it consider that complementary social legislation would be necessary to prevent the abuse of patent rights? will the commission commit itself to ensuring a comprehensive, coherent legislative framework without internal contradictions between competition rules and sectoral legislation on intellectual property rights? the fourth and fifth questions relate to economic governance or, if you prefer, to competition. we have learned that we must try to converge with other competition authorities and in this convergence it is important to know to what extent the commission has made use of court decisions, decisions of national authorities or decisions of international authorities in designing these regulations. and the last question relates to a subject which is particularly sensitive to my committee, and i am sure mr schwab will say something about it. it refers to the food supply chain. it seems obvious that there is an inequality of conditions between producers, between farmers and farmers, on the one hand, and the large chains on the other. does the commission intend to do anything to ensure fair treatment, fair treatment for the weaker party in this contract? these are the questions, commissioner, to which i would like you to give the most definite, clear and precise answers possible.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank the honourable member very much for the question, as this is indeed a very important area of responsibility for the european union. competing companies often work together, for instance in research and development, production, purchasing, product standardisation and information exchange. as you know, this can be beneficial to consumers and lead to lower prices, more choice and better products. these horizontal agreements – we call them horizontal because the cooperating companies are active at the same level in the supply chain – can allow companies to respond to increasing competitive pressures and a changing market place driven by globalisation. but there is also a risk that this kind of agreement can lead to serious competition problems, for example where the parties agree to fix prices, share markets or limit output. the commission has spent the past two years reviewing the competition guidelines for horizontal agreements, with in-depth assessment and wide consultation. the new rules, which should be adopted by the end of this year, will be much more detailed, user-friendly and clear, providing better guidance on what kinds of cooperation are allowed. as always, the commission has had to strike a careful balance between the needs of different stakeholders. the two main elements of the new competition rules are on standard-setting and information exchange. in the responses to the public consultation, around two-thirds of stakeholders commented on standardisation. a well-functioning system for standard-setting is vital for the european economy as a whole and, in particular, for the information and communication technology sector. the horizontal guidelines promote a standard-setting system that is transparent and that leads to predictable costs when licensing intellectual property rights. this requires attempting to find a balance between the sometimes contradictory interests of companies with different business models involved in the standard-setting process. at one end of the spectrum you have the pure innovator and, at the other, the pure manufacturer, each with different priorities and needs. the new rules will make sure both that there are sufficient incentives for further innovation and that the traditional benefits from standardisations are passed on to consumers. in order for standard-setting agreements to avoid having to be assessed under the competition rules and to fall within the so-called safe harbour – meaning where they are presumed to be in line with the competition rules – there are three general conditions that need to be met. the first is that a standard-setting organisation needs to have a balanced ipr policy, requiring good-faith disclosure of the relevant iprs, and a commitment to licensing these on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. the second is that the process of standard-setting must be open and transparent so that participation is open to all relevant actors. the third is that the standard-setting process must also be transparent in a way that ensures that stakeholders are able to inform themselves of upcoming, ongoing and finalised work. you also mentioned patent ambushes. case experience, both in the eu and in the us, shows that patent ambush can be a real problem by preventing industry from making an informed choice on the potential costs of the technologies chosen in the standard. the commission approach is to give standard-setting organisations incentives to have clear rules on disclosure of patents. although this does not completely remove the risk, it does reduce it. by contrast, for r&d agreements where there are a limited number of parties – often only two – the public consultation showed that stakeholders considered that there is, in practice, no real problem of patent ambush as the parties have an incentive to bring innovations to market and any potential problems can be solved upfront by contractual means between parties. turning to information exchange, this can be pro-competitive when it enables companies to gather general market data that allow them to serve customers better. however, there are also situations where the exchange of market information can be misused, for instance when companies use sensitive information to coordinate behaviour. in response to strong stakeholder demand, the guidelines contain a new chapter setting out general principles for competition assessment of information exchange. the last question that was raised by parliament related to the question of purchasing cooperatives. the commission has consistently believed that joint purchasing groups amongst small retailers can be beneficial for competition, especially vis-à-vis large suppliers. the horizontal guidelines have since 2000 provided for a positive assessment for this type of cooperation up to certain limits of market share. following its review process, the commission is proposing that for purchasing agreements, as long as the market share of participants is 20% or less, it will be presumed to be in line with the competition rules. but the commission is also aware that international buying alliances among large retailers may have a negative impact on competition, with issues being examined in the context of the commission’s work on a better functioning food supply.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. cooperation agreements exist between competing undertakings at the same level of the market which are competitive and comply with the original law of the european union. for reasons of legal certainty, given the complexity of the matter and the balances to be made, firms need to have instruments to determine which horizontal agreements infringe the prohibitions of the treaty and restrict competition. we are at a critical juncture because the guidelines for horizontal agreements are ten years old and the regulations for the exemption of the categories of specialisation and innovation and development agreements expire at the end of this year. the union must therefore update these instruments without delay and cannot afford to have a regulatory loophole which creates doubts, uncertainties and paralyses the activity of our companies. it would be an intolerable drag on our economy and a gross irresponsibility in a context of crisis which demands initiatives to help revive and stimulate business activity. moreover, as the review period runs until 31 december 2022, they should equip european industry with the means to respond to the major transformations that the international economic landscape will undergo in these years. a few months ago, the european union adopted the europe 2020 strategy under the spanish presidency, which is firmly committed to an inclusive society based on knowledge and innovation. the new regulatory framework should foster the development of a smart and connected economy that is able to connect business networks and exploit synergies between businesses through agreements that promote standardisation, specialisation, research and development for the benefit of european consumers, but also agreements that contribute to joint production, purchasing, marketing, the promotion of cooperatives and groups of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. we support the commission in its efforts to ensure that this package of initiatives will increase efficiency, promote scientific and technical progress, provide benefits for final consumers and ultimately improve the overall competitiveness and sustainable development of our companies.
mr president, some have said that the condemnation of morocco is too lenient, given the scale of the repression of human rights in the sahara, where morocco is nothing but an occupying country, without sovereignty or legal title. but the important thing is to send the message that the whole of europe and this parliament will no longer tolerate your violence. i spoke yesterday in this parliament about the hague tribunal. the international community, which has sadly failed in its attempt to prevent genocide in rwanda, yugoslavia and darfur, i hope will avoid, in this case, that of western sahara and that we will not have to see it before another court, also in the hague, as i said, but this time for war crimes.
in writing. − as to the 2011 budget proper, the council indicated that the level of payment appropriations should not go beyond an increase of 2.91% compared to the 2010 budget. especially for the member states that had voted against the majority council position budget in august, this was the absolute red line. parliament in trialogues on the 2011 budget had taken a step towards being willing to accept this position on payments, after getting assurances concerning extra commitments over and above the ceiling via the flexibility instrument both in heading 1a (competitiveness) and heading 4 (external action) so as to be able to cover for reinforced policy priorities in heading 1a (notably life-long learning) and extra needs in heading 4 (notably palestine). also as regards iter (unanimity needed in council), it seemed that a compromise would guarantee an extra 1.4 billion for the years 2012 and 2013 by using unused margins under the different headings from the year 2010 and – but that part was still under discussion, as it was linked to guaranteeing better flexibility mechanisms under the multiannual financial framework regulation – redeployments from the seventh framework programme for research and development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it explicitly includes the need for the eu to make an effective contribution to the sustainable development of the planet, solidarity between peoples, fair trade and the eradication of poverty. my support is also based on the importance and necessity, reflected in the resolution, of legally linking international trade agreements to respect for human rights and their strict and constant monitoring. in this context, i think it is worthwhile to propose that the ilo be granted official observer status in the wto and, in particular, that a committee on trade and decent work be set up within the wto to monitor trade agreements in coordination with the ilo and the united nations high commissioner for human rights. another reason why i voted for this resolution is the firmness with which it raises the need to create a 'genuine world environmental organisation' and the unequivocal defence of human rights, sustainable development and respect for the environment by putting them ahead of the current international trade model.
in writing. − the inclusion of the human rights clause, as well as the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations, are complex issues that divide the international community. on the one hand, the northern countries denounce unfair competition by the emerging countries in the social and environmental fields, which leads to a distortion of competition in trade; on the other hand, the southern countries suspect that the northern countries want to hinder their economic development and resort, through the application of these rules, to a covert protectionism. this makes it possible to understand why it is extremely difficult to deal with the question of rules calmly in multilateral fora, and even more so in the wto, at a time when the social clause is increasingly appearing in bilateral trade agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the need to achieve greater transparency in the commission's activities and to make the necessary effort to bring the institutions of the european union closer to the citizens. the report presented by the ombudsman has my support as it reflects the work he does in exposing maladministration and his positive work in seeking greater transparency through his response to complaints from eu citizens about the mismanagement of the european institutions and bodies. i am voting in favour of the ombudsman's work, which has resulted in the resolution of many complaints by mutual agreement, in collaboration with the european parliament. i also think it is very positive that this resolution encourages the ombudsman to launch inquiries on his own initiative to solve systemic problems in the institutions.
in writing. − the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman for 2009 was formally presented to the president of the european parliament, jerzy buzek, on 19 april 2010 and the ombudsman, nikiforos diamandouros, presented his report to the committee on petitions on 4 may 2010. the report gives an overview of the ombudsman's activities during the past year. the results of the various investigations are classified according to the nature of the maladministration or the institution involved. a six-page summary has also been published. the new publication takes stock of the most important results achieved for the complainants and highlights the main policy issues examined during the past year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the criticism it makes of the commission for having given priority to the interests of the multinational porsche over the right of public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. the resolution criticises the commission's lack of cooperation, which is detrimental both to interinstitutional dialogue and to the eu's public image. my support for this resolution is based on the fact that i share its denunciation of the commission's daily lack of transparency, which constantly violates the principle of loyal cooperation between european institutions, with 'the general delays and obstruction by the commission in connection with the european ombudsman's inquiries into access to documents cases'.
in writing. − special reports are the last resort of the european ombudsman. the european ombudsman's decisions are not legally binding and are therefore based on persuasion, the ability to persuade through reasoned argument and, occasionally, publicity and the strength of public opinion. the small number of special reports that the european ombudsman has had to submit to the european parliament (17 since 1995) is a testament to the cooperation that exists between the eu institutions in the vast majority of cases. part of the context of such cooperation, however, is the existence of the power to submit a special report to the european parliament. especially when a draft recommendation is being drawn up, the knowledge that a special report could be the next step often helps to change the position of the institution or body concerned. special reports should therefore only be submitted on important issues where parliament can help the institution or body concerned to change its position. as a political body, the european parliament is sovereign in dealing with the european ombudsman's special reports, both in terms of procedure and approach and action.
in writing. − this report assesses the monitoring by the commission of the application of european union law in 2008. it focuses its analysis on the 'eu pilot' evaluation report, in which the commission proposes to take stock of the achievements of the 'eu pilot' project 22 months after its implementation. the committee raises a number of important questions about the operation of pilot eu and the role of citizens in ensuring compliance with eu law on the ground and asks the commission to provide relevant information to enable an analysis of the added value of pilot eu in relation to the existing infringement procedures. the committee also suggests that the commission be asked to propose a 'procedural code' for the infringement procedure on the basis of the new legal basis of article 298 tfeu to strengthen citizens' rights and transparency.
in writing. - broadcasting is a special sector. it influences people's values and opinions and remains the main source of information for most eu citizens. it therefore has a special significance for the protection and promotion of fundamental values and democracy, including social cohesion. as the audiovisual communication services directive underlines, the eu audiovisual landscape is characterised by what has been described as 'the dual system'. the coexistence of public and commercial broadcasters has ensured a diverse range of programming. it also contributes to media pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity, editorial competence (in terms of quality and diversity of content) and freedom of expression. this is achieved in part by a strong, viable public service broadcasting and adequate funding. in a well-functioning dual system, public service broadcasters can raise the bar of the market.
in writing. - while i agree with many of the points in the resolution, particularly the need to advance the gender approach in development cooperation, i voted against it because i am opposed to increasing the number of police or military personnel, whether men or women, because of the progress this represents in the wave of militarisation of the eu. the resolution 'stresses the importance of the eu appointing more women as police and soldiers in csdp missions', which is contrary to the defence we make in my group of the demilitarisation of the csdp. in addition, he constantly refers to the european external action service, the establishment of which i have repeatedly expressed my opposition to, since it represents a further step in the escalation of the militarization of european foreign policy.
in writing. − welcomes the adoption of this resolution, which underlines that the 10th anniversary of security council resolution 1325 (2000) should be the beginning of a reinforced agenda for the implementation of this resolution, which will not move forward without high-level political leadership and increased available resources; strongly recommends that this issue be duly addressed during the ongoing review of eu human rights policy, when developing a comprehensive country-specific human rights strategy and evaluating the eu guidelines on violence against women and girls and the eu guidelines on children and armed conflict and combating all forms of discrimination against them; and calls for significant and specific financial, human and organisational resources to be allocated to women's participation and gender mainstreaming in the field of foreign and security policy.
in writing. - my position in favour of the resolution on the situation of the beekeeping sector is explained by my concern about the serious decline in the number of bees, which are fundamental and irreplaceable in their important pollinating role, and which, together with other pollinating insects, affect 84% of plant species. i therefore believe that helping to improve the situation of this sector is an obligation, since, as the resolution points out, it 'plays a strategic role in society, providing a public service of environmental value'. i am also glad that the resolution calls on the commission to make it compulsory for european and national authorities to consult beekeepers when developing programmes on beekeeping and related legislation, as i believe this is a step forward in improving citizen participation and democratic progress. i also voted in favour because i agree that the commission should ensure that aid to the beekeeping sector is increased in the cap after 2013.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption of this resolution in which the ep welcomes the commission's report of 28 may 2010; notes, however, that the current programmes will end in 2013; expresses its concern at the many challenges and problems still facing the european beekeeping sector, such as marketing issues, price volatility, the promotion of beekeeping among young people, the ageing of beekeepers in the european union, the decline in the number of bee colonies and the general difficulties in controlling bee mortality due to multiple factors; it also called on the commission to respond positively to requests from member states and operators, for example by improving statistical data on production forecasts, including the introduction of the same quality requirements for honey and the improvement and harmonisation of monitoring and research programmes in beekeeping.
in writing. - finally, our group abstained from voting on this resolution because of the excessive emphasis on coal burning. although two key amendments have been defeated (on paragraphs 32 and 52), the content is still difficult for our group to accept.
in writing. − the envi resolution was fairly narrowly adopted (final vote 292/274/38) with the following changes/remarks: the reference to ‘without prejudice to moving to a 1.5ºc limit’ was deleted with a narrow majority (rcv amendment 14 and amendment 18: 307/304/xx); the explicit mention that lulucf and aau loopholes could nullify all annex i targets was deleted (amendment 16: 316/301/xx), but other paragraphs requiring robust rules that are designed to deliver emissions reductions from annex i remained. without an electronic check a paragraph repeating the unfccc 4ar science and 40% was said to have been defeated (although in a separate vote on the same paragraph the part about 40% being required by science for +2°c had been maintained). the paragraph reiterating ‘the need to adopt a domestic greenhouse gas emissions reduction target for the european union of 30% by 2020 as compared with the 1990 level, in the interests of the future economic growth of the european union’ was maintained (ppe amendment 20 rejected by rcv: 298/316/xx). all in all it remains a good resolution, containing many good messages regarding the kyoto protocol, limits to offsets and criticism of lulucf and aau loopholes as well as strong language on the historical responsibility of industrialised countries and the need to finance developing country climate efforts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it sends a loud and clear message that it reinforces the right of the saharawi people to self-determination and denounces the atrocities committed by the moroccan government. it is positive because it condemns the violence used by morocco in the dissolution of the saharawi dignity camp, the death of the young nayem elghari and the information blockade imposed by the occupying force on western sahara, preventing access to journalists, ngos and elected officials. although my group had asked for the need to freeze the eu-morocco association agreement, because of the breach of clause 2 of the agreement, i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for an international investigation by the united nations, calls on morocco to 'respect international law on the exploitation of the natural resources of western sahara' and 'insists on the need to invite the united nations bodies to propose the setting up of a mechanism to monitor and control human rights in western sahara'. for all these reasons, and although i would have liked a stronger and clearer condemnation, i voted in favour.
in writing. - following the repeated attempts by the moroccan regime to prevent this parliament from taking a position on the human rights situation in western sahara, we must welcome the failure of the moroccan lobby on this occasion. i find the continuing moroccan interference unacceptable. the text of the resolution is also nothing but a compromise between positions based on very different analyses, and i would therefore like to make clear the position of our group in favour of the sahrawi people, and in particular our condemnation of the provocative and irresponsible way in which the gdaim izyk camp was dismantled. we cannot put those who attack, torture and massacre on the same level as those who try to defend themselves. independent investigation is needed and free access and freedom of movement for those responsible for the media and information is needed. the eu, and especially spain and france, must assume their historic responsibility and demand that morocco cease its blocking and intransigent attitude, including freezing the many trade agreements and privileged relations that exist between the eu and the kingdom of morocco, and doing everything possible to ensure that the self-determination referendum envisaged in numerous un resolutions takes place.
in writing. - it was a resolution with considerable consensus, stressing that ukraine, in accordance with article 49 of the treaty on european union, may apply for eu membership like any european state subscribing to the principles of liberty, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. it also emphasises that ukraine, which intends to join the european union, has strong historical, cultural and economic links with the european union and is one of its key partners among the eastern neighbours, as it exercises a significant influence on the security, stability and prosperity of the entire continent.
in writing. - the un climate summit in copenhagen has produced a disappointing agreement that is unable to limit global warming to below 2°c. similarly, the copenhagen accord is neither global nor binding. the eu is not - far from it - the main culprit in this failure, but its lack of unity, its inability to speak with one voice, its inability to align the emission reduction and support for developing countries objectives with the recommendations of scientists and the demands of the european parliament have often made it inaudible and ineffective. why are there so many difficulties? there is certainly no single answer, but a significant part of the problem is that many countries have not yet experimented on a large scale and remain uncertain of the economic, social or democratic benefits of an ecological transformation of their economy, despite the proliferation of studies and successful experiences on energy transition and more sustainable agriculture and transport.
in writing. − in this resolution, the ep notes that global challenges have been exacerbated by the financial crisis and its social consequences, and have triggered global debates on the need for a new regulatory approach and governance issues in the global economy, including international trade; considers that new, more effective and better implemented rules should contribute to the development of more sustainable policies, which take real account of social and environmental concerns; and notes that globalisation has increased competitive pressure between countries to attract foreign investors and competition between companies, which has sometimes led governments to tolerate serious human and social rights abuses and significant environmental damage in order to attract trade and investment.
in writing. − welcomes the fact that the commission has launched two separate public consultations on the review of the competition rules applicable to horizontal cooperation agreements; stresses the importance of listening to and considering, as far as possible, the views of stakeholders in the decision-making process in order to achieve a realistic and balanced regulatory framework; and calls on the commission to clearly indicate, at the end of the review process, how it has taken into account the contributions of stakeholders;
mr president, last month i organized a hearing in this parliament on victims of terrorism in the presence of the president of parliament and several members of the european people's party. the victims have turned to us, as their representatives in europe, to guarantee them their right to justice, which is so often trampled on in their own countries, as is the case in spain, where the rodríguez zapatero government continues to lie to the spanish people about a process of negotiation with a terrorist gang that has not yet surrendered its weapons. that is why events as serious as the bar faisan whistle-blowing, where the terrorists were warned that an operation was underway to arrest them, remain uninvestigated to the bottom. democratic governments cannot turn their backs on the victims of terrorism, who have paid the highest price in their struggle for freedom. we should be pushing for a european charter from this parliament which would include the legitimate demands of the victims, such as not negotiating with terrorists and that they should fully carry out their sentences.
mr president, the inconsistency of the accusations levelled against the spanish government here today is self-evident, for we are witnessing the arrests of terrorists under the government of rodríguez zapatero. but as for my question, we are commemorating the centenary of the poet miguel hernández, the irreparable victim of the spanish civil war, an extraordinary voice that comes from the very heart of the people. a shepherd of "pennies and goats", he was in the orbit of nobel prize winners neruda and aleixandre. in this forum that should be of freedom, tolerance, peace and culture, i read: i am an open window that listens, / through which to see dark life. but there is a ray of sunshine in the fight that always leaves the shadow defeated. in these dark moments, let us continue to hope for that ray of the poet, a ray that will overcome the darkness, the then and the always. to paraphrase miguel hernández, "we have a lot to talk about", or to use the line from vallejo, repeated in stockholm last week by vargas llosa, "there is, brothers, a lot to do" in this europe... (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, in 1989 the 'television without frontiers' directive provided that states should not impede the retransmission of audiovisual media from other member states. with the revision of this directive in 2007, this objective was reinforced and adapted to new technologies and changes in the structure of the audiovisual market. however, in catalonia nord the state border continues to act as a cultural and linguistic border, breaching these directives. in particular, on the basis of technical criteria, catalan-language radio and television are systematically excluded from the regulated broadcasting areas. we therefore recall that the european institutions must enforce their own directives and that audiovisual media with a crossborder vocation must be able to offer their services to the whole of their linguistic and cultural community when, as in the case of catalonia, it extends beyond a single state. thank you very much.
mr president, the increase in asylum applications from citizens of serbia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia requires measures to protect the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001. the visa is an instrument of immigration policy; its purpose is to legalise entry and temporary stay in a country of which the applicant is not a national or resident. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 provides for an evaluation mechanism for the visa waiver, subject to certain requirements in relation to illegal immigration, public policy and security, the union's external relations, territorial coherence and the principle of reciprocity. such a mechanism could also work in the opposite direction. asylum is a tool of protection which cannot be misused. it should be recalled that the common policy of the union in this area aims at preserving the integrity of asylum as an instrument of protection for the persecuted, giving priority to the principles of the geneva convention and the new york protocol, applying common criteria for the identification of persons genuinely in need of international protection and ensuring a minimum level of benefits common to all member states for such persons. asylum is therefore a humanitarian and solidarity instrument, and is therefore unique in its purpose and nature. the union must therefore react and help the authorities of serbia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to take all necessary measures on the requirements to be met to be granted refugee status or subsidiary protection status, thereby preventing their misuse and fraud.
the rapporteur, mrs guillaume ilchev, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i would like to draw the attention of the council and the commission to the terminology. in my view, it would be more appropriate to refer to 'irregular immigration', as all community legislative instruments enacted to date refer to illegal immigration as 'illegal immigration'. while it is true that in some member states illegal entry or residence is a criminal offence and in others the term 'irregular' has no semantic-legal significance, in many other states illegal entry or residence does not constitute criminal wrongdoing, which is why we should not criminalise such activities in general. the report therefore calls on the institutions to revise the terminology used, stressing the need to find a precise and appropriate definition of the phenomenon of illegal immigration. as regards the substance of the case, the network of immigration liaison officers was established by council regulation (ec) no 377/2004. that instrument provides that liaison officers shall be representatives of a member state sent abroad by the immigration service or other competent authority to establish and maintain contacts with the authorities of the host country in order to contribute to the prevention of and fight against illegal immigration, the return of irregular migrants and the management of regular immigration. the agency was established after the date of entry into force of the regulation and its mission is to coordinate operational cooperation between member states in the field of external border management; to assist member states in the training of national border guards; to carry out risk analyses; to monitor developments in research related to external border control and surveillance; to assist member states in circumstances requiring increased technical and operational assistance at the external borders and to provide them with the necessary support to organise joint return operations. it is clear that the important mission entrusted to frontex could be achieved more efficiently if the knowledge and experience of the networks of immigration liaison officers could be used, especially when we take into account that the european agency has no offices or representations outside the territory of the union. the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 337/2004 aims precisely to take advantage of the knowledge and experience of these immigration officials for the benefit of frontex and the other way round, a question that was not raised in the original regulation. the amendment also proposes access to information obtained by the liaison officers' networks via inconet, which is a secure information and coordination network for the immigration management services of the member states, access to the external borders fund to promote the creation of liaison officers' networks and, finally, to provide the mechanism for reporting on the activity of the network of officials and the designation of the so-called regions of interest in immigration matters. the proposal is based on articles 63 (3) (b) and 66 of the treaty establishing the community. i will stop here, madam president, and then i will make further reflections in the second reading.
member of the commission. − madam president, even if the debate did not show it, i understand, mr díaz de mera, that you have very strong support for your proposal. i would like to congratulate you on that because it shows that you have done very important work. i also want to reiterate my joy that you have reinforced the human rights aspects in this through the amendments made by the committee. it will ensure that all relevant aspects, especially human rights, are taken into consideration when we look at a country or a region and when we report matters in relation to irregular migration in the given country or region. we know that there is a very clear correlation between the human rights situation and the number of migrants or asylum seekers. this is a major push factor. this is also a task for the asylum support office. it will collect such information on countries of origin and transit of asylum seekers. the core function of ilos – the liaison officers – is to establish and maintain contact with the host countries’ authorities with a view to preventing and combating irregular migration. providing a full assessment of the human rights situation in the host country, however, is not within their competence, although it is high on the agenda. i think that we have improved the text with your proposal and i very much look forward to your vote tomorrow. i would like to thank you and the shadow rapporteurs again for your important work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to reiterate my admiration for the way in which you have managed the portfolio entrusted to you. there have been 18 speeches this afternoon and the majority groups have supported this report, so i would like to express my gratitude in a very emotional and heartfelt way, because they have taken an active part in enriching and modifying substantive aspects which should be included and which are included now. i would like to refer in particular to the human rights chapter, the european asylum support office and the role of the united nations high commissioner for refugees. obviously, in a chamber as wide and diverse as this, it is not obligatory to agree, which is why the efforts we have all made to achieve a very majority consensus are of particular significance. and yes, ladies and gentlemen, from a centre-right, democratic and christian standpoint, i am unequivocally in favour of the expression 'irregular' and banishment, because it is unsuitable from a legal, semantic and ethical point of view, the expression 'illegal'. so i thank all my colleagues for their support and also for their speeches, even if they are different.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mrs mathieu and mr cercas, the two committees, as well as the belgian presidency, for the hard work that has been done on this proposal. as you are aware, and as the rapporteur said, the commission already presented this report in 2007. our aim was, and is still, to simplify procedures by introducing one permit for residence and work, while guaranteeing employment-related rights to legally residing third-country workers who are not covered by specific eu legislation or commission proposals. with this proposal, we do not address the conditions for granting or withdrawing a permit. such conditions are the competence of the member states, as is the decision on volumes to admit – if any. this proposal is one of the building blocks of the european union’s labour and migration policy. if it is adopted by parliament and the council, this directive will confirm that the european union values the important contribution third country workers make to our economies and our societies. it would also demonstrate that we are ready and able to agree on legislation concerning labour and migration. it is a very complex proposal and it addresses both the immigration side and the social employment side. the majority of the amendments voted in the respective committees of this house can be supported by the commission to the extent that they reinforce procedural guarantees for both the migrants and the employers. this is in relation to amendments geared towards further simplifying the application procedures and strengthening the equal treatment provisions – for example, the principle of proportionality of fees as regards procedures and the equal treatment provisions on tax benefits. on the other side, the amendment that makes the export of acquired pensions conditional upon the existence of a bilateral agreement is much more restrictive compared to the approach proposed by the commission. i am pleased to see that both the presidency and parliament have made important efforts to bring their positions closer. the belgian presidency has tried to have member states come closer to the ep position, and i know that parliament has taken into account a number of the concerns and requests by the council. the compromise we are all trying to achieve will respect certain criteria, such as the aim to protect migrant workers and to provide them with a series of work-related socio-economic rights on the basis, as much as possible, of equal treatment with eu workers as from day one of employment. it will also take account of the importance of creating a level playing field throughout the eu for these workers and, thirdly, the importance of showing our partner countries that we are ready to provide for the fair treatment of third country nationals legally residing and working in our member states. we cannot disregard member states’ concerns relating to certain equal treatment provisions, especially when it comes to budgetary concentration. what i believe important is that those criteria i have just highlighted are respected, even though the end result may not be as ideal as we wanted and as ambitious as we had hoped for. as mrs mathieu said, this is a compromise. it is a good compromise and it marks an important step forward in the area of legal migration and will be of high importance to the workers of the european union. let me therefore express my hope that we can reach an agreement on this proposal as soon as possible. i again thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for the work that has been done.
opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president, commissioner, mrs mathieu, ladies and gentlemen, migration in europe is undoubtedly a political, economic and social phenomenon of the first importance and of enormous scope. it is a very great opportunity, but it needs to be managed intelligently and fairly, because otherwise it would become a problem; a problem for those who arrive, because they would not be treated fairly, but also a problem for those who are here, the workers who are here, who would see their jobs threatened. otherwise, the labour market would be fragmented, divided and there would be 'low-cost' workers, which would threaten the social gains of a century of building the european social model. the principle of equal treatment is therefore the key to the vault of a policy of economic emigration which is both intelligent and fair. the council said so in tampere 11 years ago, the commission said so five years ago in its green paper and parliament has to decide tomorrow on a proposal for a legislative initiative. that is what the directive is devoted to in chapter iii, equal treatment. it is not just a bureaucratic directive, it is a directive on rights and obligations, which should be available to all legal immigrants and should extend to all rights on the basis of the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination. but unfortunately, commissioner, the directive is not the one that was announced to us, and neither i nor my committee on employment say this, but all the ngos working in the humanitarian field, all the churches in europe and all the trade unions say it. this directive is insufficient, and even dangerous, because it excludes precisely those groups most in need of protection, it excludes from equal treatment temporary workers, displaced persons, workers transferred by their companies, workers from third world countries who are coming here under the mode 4 formula of the gatt treaties. hundreds of thousands of workers from third countries will therefore arrive in accordance with the principle of the country of origin. because they will not be treated equally under this directive. and because you also give the member states the possibility of derogating, even for workers subject to the principle of equal treatment and covered by what mrs mathieu has said, from equal treatment in the collection of pensions when they return to their countries, in family benefits, in social benefits which are left to those who are unemployed, all except unemployment benefit. they are also excluded from scholarships, from all kinds of aid for higher education, even for vocational training. the commission therefore says in the explanatory statement, in the impact study, that it intends to eliminate and put an end to the difference in rights, to the right gaps, but in practice it does not do so, madam commissioner, it is not enough. unfortunately, we also have amendments tomorrow from the right-wing and centre-right groups in the house which go further, as you have said, and take even the council's most extreme positions to destroy the consensus we had built in the committee on employment. i therefore believe, madam commissioner, mrs mathieu, ladies and gentlemen, that we should have a much wider debate among ourselves on this matter, with the other directives, open to european civil society, to ngos, to churches, to trade unions, not to deal with this issue in the way that we would do tomorrow if we adopted the council's text, in the way that i believe is also irresponsible. i think that most of my colleagues, across party lines, would agree to a broad debate to reach a broad consensus in this parliament that respects the principles of our charter of fundamental rights, that takes the doctrine of the united nations, the international labour organisation and the council of europe. we are talking about the dignity of people, but also about the future of europe, and i believe that in europe we need all workers, all without exception, whatever their origins, if they are legally resident in europe, to have all the rights without exclusion, because that is the way to fight against xenophobia, against racism and for a europe of dignity.
mr president, i do not want to reopen any debate with my colleague oomen-ruijten, but to put the points straight. there has been no personal debate and no one has questioned his work. if it had been called into question, i would say at this moment that she has done a splendid job on the employment committee. but if mrs oomen-ruijten says that she has tabled amendments for tomorrow's sitting which improve the text and which give equality, i have to say no. mrs oomen-ruijten has signed the amendments to the texts - here they are - which the council was unable to introduce in the dialogues we have had with the council. these are not amendments by mrs oomen-ruijten, they are the council's literal text. and as regards the posting of workers, the council has a much more unequal position than the commission. we would be prepared to accept the original commission text, but the text which comes from the council provides that all posted workers, even those not covered by the 1996 directive, are also excluded from this directive. so it is not greater equality, it is greater inequality that is found in that amendment. and i reiterate my personal appreciation for her. she is certainly an excellent member of parliament who has done a very good job, but in the end she has gone along with the council's theses.
i want to tell you that, as the person responsible for interpretation and translation on the bureau, i am going to ask the house to put the light that i have here on each seat and that tells me that interpreters cannot follow you, because it is not very useful for them to tell me only. i can, indeed, inform you, but i think it will be more effective if we have that light in every desk.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr philippe juvin, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the effects of advertising on consumer behaviour [2010/2052 (ini) ] (a7-0338/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission and in particular vice-president reding, i want to thank the rapporteur for this valuable report analysing several key aspects concerning the influence of modern advertising and consumer behaviour. in order to find out how to best address the challenges arising from the development of the internet and new technologies, the commission has consulted widely on the existing legal framework for data protection throughout 2009 and 2010. the consultations have confirmed that the underlying principles of the current eu data protection legislation are still very much valid. however, it became equally clear that the eu needs a more comprehensive and more coherent approach in its policy for personal data protection for the eu and beyond. as a consequence, on 4 november the commission adopted a communication on a comprehensive approach on personal data protection in the european union. online advertising delivers many benefits to european citizens, in particular by giving them free access to services. many of the targeting techniques – display, contextual and certain search-related adverts, etc. – do not involve any tracking and are not a subject of major concern. my colleague vice-president neelie kroes has called on the industry to establish a self-regulatory framework for online behavioural advertising based on the eu legal framework and the four principles of effective transparency, an appropriate form of affirmation or consent, user friendliness and effective enforcement. the commission will monitor the industry’s efforts to assess whether more regulatory action is necessary. as regards advertising emails and the confidentiality of communications, the telecoms reform adopted a year ago strengthened and clarified the eu privacy rules. it also created a clear obligation for member states to enact dissuasive sanctions and to ensure that the competent authorities have not only the necessary powers to enforce them but are also provided with appropriate resources. the member states have until may 2011 to transpose these provisions into national law. the commission acknowledges that there are certain differences in the transposition of the unfair commercial practices directive between the member states. the commission considers that such differences, some of which the commission is solving through cooperation with the member states, are marginal and that the desired level of harmonisation seems to have been attained. the use of general clauses gives some leeway to the member states but ensures at the same time that the directive is future-proof. in this connection the guidance on the application of the unfair commercial practices directive is one of the initiatives taken by the commission to make sure that full harmonisation is effective; in other words, to ensure that the same rules are interpreted and applied in the same manner in the member states. as suggested by the draft report, we will definitely continue our work on the guidance and update this document to take account of new issues and developments. the commission is also developing a legal database on the legislation, jurisprudence and academic work which will foster uniform application of the directive in the member states. as regards the statements in relation to advertising in the form of comments posted on social networks, forums and blogs, it is important to note that, whenever consumers acting on behalf of a trader and/or are in any way financed by a trader to make certain representations without this being made clear in the opinion or statement, this is actually covered by the unfair commercial practices directive as a form of hidden advertising. as far as mere opinions are concerned, these of course do not qualify as advertising. in this connection the commission considers that marketing legislation is not the most adequate instrument, as it is a matter of freedom of expression. the directive nevertheless contains specific safeguards concerning vulnerable consumers. age is a factor which national authorities must take into account when assessing the fairness of a practice. the report on the application of the unfair commercial practices directive, which is due in 2011, will build on the member states’ experience, including in the field of advertising to children and adolescents, to the extent the data on this aspect will be available.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by kay swinburne, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the regulation of the trading of financial instruments dark pools and other instruments [2010/2075 (ini) ] (a7-0326/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission and of commissioner barnier in particular, i will answer by saying that improving transparency in financial markets and ensuring that all relevant market actors are subject to appropriate levels of regulation are key aims of this commission and of the g20. i would like to congratulate dr swinburne and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the report on trading in financial instruments, ‘dark pools’, etc. the report marks an important step in the context of the ongoing review of the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid). its recommendations are being closely integrated into the commission’s thinking as we prepare the proposal for amending the existing directive in 2011. the mifid review is an important part of the commission’s agenda towards a more stable and transparent financial system working for society and the economy as a whole. many pieces have already been put in place, not least the launch of a new eu supervisory authority as of next month. the commission is committed to delivering proposals in the remaining areas by summer 2011. we count on the support of the european parliament in moving swiftly to adopt the necessary reforms in order to ensure they are applied as soon as possible thereafter. as you know, mifid is a cornerstone of the eu regulatory framework for financial markets. it pre-dates the financial crisis but has, on the whole, proven to function well, even in the difficult and turbulent times of recent years. of course, some shortcomings have emerged. technological progress and rapid developments in financial markets have also ensured that regulatory devices which were state-of-the-art some years ago are clearly outdated today. on 8 december, the commission published draft proposals for a consultation. we intend to be ambitious and comprehensive in tackling all challenges. while recognising that the original objectives of mifid are still valid, the issues at stake are critical aspects of how our financial markets function, how open and transparent they need to be and how investors can gain access to financial instruments and investment opportunities. like the draft economic affairs committee report, we perceive the need for improvements in the regulation of new types of trading platforms and trading methodologies. this should take proper account of the nature of the business with a view to ensuring a level playing field between actors and proper protection for investors as well as against disruptive market practices. we also agree with the need to improve transparency rules applicable to trading in shares and to introduce new requirements for trading in other instruments. another important area touched upon also in dr swinburne’s report is to improve the functioning and regulation of commodity derivative markets in line with g20 principles. furthermore, we aim to introduce targeted improvements to the existing rules regarding investor protection. ensuring all products and selling practices are suitably covered under equal rules is a vital component in restoring investor confidence. finally, this review will reinforce supervision and enforcement across financial markets with a key role foreseen for the new european securities and markets authority. in taking the work forward, the commission services are working closely with our international partners, notably with the responsible regulators in the united states who are looking at the same issues, to ensure international convergence and avoid any risk of regulatory arbitrage. the report by ms swinburne comes at an important juncture in the process of regulatory reform. we are encouraged by the commitment shown by meps and by the fact that your analyses and recommendations coincide very closely with ours. this report reinforces the basis for our work ahead.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next session will be held tomorrow, tuesday, 14 december 2010, from 9.00 to 13.00, from 15.00 to 20.30 and from 21.00 to 24.00. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. this court is adjourned.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of victims are protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. today this parliament will honour all the victims, reminding those who believe that borders will serve as an alibi to pursue their victims that this european protection order will, from today onwards, protect all victims equally in the european union. to achieve this objective and to move forward in this area of freedom and security, as indicated in the stockholm programme, we began working more than a year ago and today we can say with some pride that, although the road has not been easy - because this order has at many times been misunderstood by many who have doubted its effectiveness, its clarity - we have succeeded. i must say that after the 'trilogues' with the belgian presidency and in many discussions with the commission, we have reached a text that pleased almost all the political groups, and this report was therefore adopted by a very large majority and without any vote against in the joint vote of the libe and femm committees. i hope that this parliament will today reflect the decision of these committees and of those who have brought forward this report which was adopted by a very large majority, because this would send a clear message to the council about what citizens want, which is nothing other than to live in a space of safety and freedom, to be protected, and that a victim who has a restraining order in his country against his aggressor does not have to initiate another judicial process when moving to another. we have an obligation to facilitate access to justice for european citizens and, even more so, for the most vulnerable victims. the protection of all victims, without exception, has been my focus throughout the development of this report. so i wanted to include victims of terrorism, victims of human trafficking, victims of organized crime, victims of honor killings, as well as a special chapter for children, who are the most vulnerable victims and we never think about how to protect them. although this order will protect all victims, it is women who suffer domestic violence who will benefit most from this instrument of judicial cooperation, as their abusers will not be able to move around europe with impunity and will know that they will be prosecuted in the same way as in the country in which they assaulted their partner. so this parliament must today send a clear message to the council about what we want. that is why we will vote with our eyes on the victims, with our eyes on those who suffer, on those who need our protection, on those who are afraid and who need to live in freedom and hope. we are not going to give up such a just and necessary objective - which is supported by the majority of citizens - because there are some who are afraid, who never dare to take that step further. we must be brave, the countries must be brave, and i hope that today's vote will be a majority vote in favour and will serve to encourage those who still doubt that this instrument will open a door for victims and that in the near future the commission will present a comprehensive legislation in favour of the rights of victims, for which it has my full support and i am sure it will have the support of this parliament. i repeat, this small, big step, the european order for the protection of victims, will improve the protection of all victims, preventing new crimes and alleviating the consequences of those already committed. we have an obligation today to remove the obstacles which have hitherto prevented real protection throughout europe. today, with our vote, we have the chance to save lives, and that is what we are going to do, and we should really be proud of doing so.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this proposal for a directive which we are bringing to the house today to drive away the perpetrators who pursue their victims until they kill them, wherever they take refuge, is a clear message which parliament must send to european society and to the council. we will not remain indifferent to the crimes which are being committed every day in the european countries, still in the darkness of the home and then in the darkness of statistics, as if the law of the strongest were the only one that prevailed at the heart of coexistence, while we are trying to give effect to our charter of fundamental rights which we approved in the treaty of lisbon. did it not occur to the constituents when they drafted title 1 that the threat to physical integrity and dignity could come not only from public institutions and the state, but disguised as affection? for the 25% of european women who are currently suffering some form of violence, torture has a private name: defending themselves against this harassment does not allow them to be citizens. according to ngos, more than 2 500 women are killed every year in the european union without us having asked ourselves whether these crimes can be prevented and avoided. that is why european women have welcomed the initiative of the member states and the spanish presidency to bring a european protection order to parliament. we are making a european security area: the european arrest warrant prevents any of our countries from being a haven for criminals. we have created a climate of mutual trust; with the protection order we are creating a space of justice and freedom, because the victims of these crimes can be welcomed in any country without having to undergo another procedure, as co-commander teresa jiménez-becerril has said. ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 'private terrorism' - that is what this continuing crime of aggression that hides in privacy is already called - and we are talking about precautionary measures of a different origin. not all countries have the same legal traditions and will not have them: however much we progress, an instrument capable of taking account of our diversity is and will be necessary. the council's legal services have seen it that way, and so have the legal services of parliament. where's the resistance? it is not, ladies and gentlemen, in the complexity of our justice system, that it will continue to exist. the law is not a tool for creating conflicts, but for resolving them. this is what the conservative governments have thought, and they have supported the initiative with good judgment. if we were talking about guarantees and fundamental rights when we were talking about terrorism, how could we have put international agreements into effect if it were not because we were talking about security? and is not 2,500 women a year a security problem for europe? this is not the first time in history that the law has been challenged. we therefore regret the commission's position throughout the procedure, because we cannot talk about a legal basis when we are talking about political will. let's not invoke the law when it suits us. this text is the result of an agreement. the improvements we have made in the areas of the right to information, translation and procedural guarantees have taken account of the fact that this is a recognition instrument, and parliament has decided that it is a priority for the member states to put the data that exists on the table and to bring them to light. we have left in the dustbin the rights of victims to psychological assistance, legal support. we will continue to fight for this and hope that it will be included in the next victims package. we would like to thank the belgian presidency for the effort it has made, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs and our team. we want to send a message to the council today with this vote: 'this is the will of parliament; it is now up to parliament to take its responsibility'. we will not tackle prevention if some member states think we do not have the problem because we do not have the data. it is now up to the council to decide whether europe is really involved in the fight against violence and in the defence of fundamental rights.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i hope that the european protection order will be particularly useful in preventing violence against women and that it will serve as a useful prologue to the proposal that the commission is preparing so that we have a similar instrument for all types of crime. i regret that the procedure for this project has been so difficult and complex, even though we all shared the central objective of the text. i would also have liked this order to include two points. on the one hand, the european register of protection orders, with the corresponding guarantees of privacy, to avoid bureaucracy for the beneficiaries and to achieve immediate implementation of orders. this also reduces the burden on the competent authorities and, finally, facilitates uniform and constantly updated statistics. secondly, i think we should have made an effort to explore collaborations in this area with third countries, especially if we take account of what the statistics say about the origin of the victims and their possible changes of residence. the fledgling european external action service has thus lost the opportunity to present itself in public with a mission like this, which understands citizens and which solves real problems for all european citizens at the present time. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for all their work and i hope that commissioner reding will be sensitive to this initiative.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i believe that we in the european parliament must be very conscious and act responsibly in the mandate we have been given and this mandate clearly tells us that we must protect women victims of violence and put a stop to the perpetrators, also at european level. it is a question of combating, as has been said, a social terrorism, that of gender violence. we must not therefore dwell on statistics or legal loopholes. we are talking about justice, about basic rights, about life and death, about defending those who must be defended against aggressors, and above all, about not having to regret that every year 2 500 women are victims of this legal neglect in which we are all immersed. we are all aware of the legal difficulties, of the fact that this is an innovative exercise in the interinstitutional dynamics after lisbon. however, these difficulties should not be an excuse for not making progress. the protection and prevention of the rights of these women who have been or may be victims of violence and murder cannot be subject to certain legalisms. it is a question of adopting the political will required by the urgency and importance of the case. it is important to do things right, of course, but above all it is essential to do them right, and this is, for me, the fundamental vision that we can convey to both the council and the commission in this text which i hope we are going to adopt. it is necessary to understand that we cannot in any case paralyse initiatives because there are technical difficulties which we have not been able to solve before. and here i would like to thank the two rapporteurs and the spanish and belgian presidencies for the work they have done to continue to move forward, to work and to overcome the scourge of sexist violence.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i think we have seen clearly in this debate that we all agree to support the objective of this report. the various political groups have shown their support for this directive, which offers greater protection to victims. i therefore ask myself: what is the impediment to the adoption of this instrument? i repeat: what fears are there that something so necessary and simple as protecting victims equally across europe will finally become a reality? i hope that this parliament will adopt this report by a majority, and i would like to remind the council and the commission that we have overcome the legal obstacles in our negotiations, and i welcome the commission's recognition of our work, as we do of its work in the future. we must not exclude ourselves, but help each other by adopting this more concrete instrument today and tomorrow the more comprehensive package of measures to help victims which will be presented by the commission, with which i am committed to working. so let us be brave and responsible today and help all those who have the right to live in a safer europe. let us help everyone, i repeat, men, women and children. let us help those who look to us today to give them a better life, a life that will restore their freedom, their security and, above all, their dignity.
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam commissioner, we know that the package of measures being prepared for the victims does not include any legal measures. the european women's lobby in parliament has just denounced it: there is talk of good practice, there is talk of coordination, but we still have a long way to go. i would also like to say that the violence we are experiencing has no exotic origins: it is our own violence. and i would like to say to the council and to the various member states that violence from other cultures also needs a legal instrument. it is not possible to fight against genital mutilation, against honour killings, against all the harassment suffered by women from other cultures without an instrument of this nature. that is why it is so important that they are also included, and parliament has worked, with all the amendments of the rapporteurs 'in the shadows', to ensure that all these victims are also included in this legal instrument. that is why it is so important that we work together on this issue and why we regret that parliament and the commission have not agreed on the same text throughout this procedure. even if parliament and the commission had agreed on the same text, we would still have a battle to fight. commissioner, you are doing the victims of violence a disservice if you think that delaying the initiative for two, three or four more years would be better for them, because it is not. you have just told us, at your previous hearing, that we have not been aware of the depth of the charter of fundamental rights. we did notice. the problem is that it has to be applied; the problem is that we have to take action and when action has to be taken, sometimes it is legal action and sometimes it has obstacles in the way. the biggest obstacle is political will. that is why it is so important that we all agree on an initiative of this kind, and it is the council that now has the floor, it is the member states that now have to decide whether this instrument is really going to be an instrument that is going to be effective for the victims and that is going to be necessary. we believe that, and that is why we have defended this instrument and why we are here. and we also defend its urgency. that is why we would like this vote in parliament to be massive, so that the countries which have not yet decided or have already decided to oppose this initiative will really appreciate it as the only procedure which can be used now and in the future. an instrument by its very nature difficult and complex, but a way-breaker that will protect the victims and protect women's citizenship.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me start by recalling that this is indeed an historic text we will adopt today – hopefully – in the vote in a few minutes. this is the first eu criminal law instrument after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i think we can be satisfied with the agreement that we have today. it is a balanced compromise between the institutions. i am aware, of course, that parliament, as represented by the rapporteurs, and the commission would have preferred some different phrasing in some paragraphs. globally, however, this is a good result which is fully in line with the objectives of parliament, of the council and of the commission, namely to fight human trafficking, this horrible modern slavery, this horrible crime which is not worthy of europe in 2010 and which is a grave violation of the fundamental rights of so many citizens. i have met some of these victims: children, men and many women in the sexual slavery business. their stories are, of course, horrible. today, when this directive is adopted, we will have a better tool to help them. this is, indeed, a good christmas present. i would really like to thank parliament, in particular the two rapporteurs, ms bauer and ms hedh, the shadow rapporteurs and all the others who made it possible to reach an agreement. there are several examples of the european parliament helping to improve the directive. i would note the specific provision concerning the status and rights of unaccompanied minors who are victims of trafficking in article 14. that was introduced at your request, and we agree that this made the directive better. there are other examples as well. i would like to mention one point where i regret that the commission proposal was not supported by the council, although we had your support. however, it was not possible to reach an agreement in the council regarding extraterritorial jurisdiction for offences committed abroad by habitual residents of the eu. i still believe that a provision guaranteeing that all persons living with us in europe who commit trafficking offences in other countries could be prosecuted in the eu would have added considerable value. however, it was not possible. the issue will be back again when we deal with the directive on child exploitation and child pornography. extraterritorial jurisdiction for habitual residents will be even more important when we discuss the possibilities of bringing paedophile sex tourists who live in europe to justice. i believe that we should together continue, in talks with the council, to insist that such a provision should be included in the directive. as i said, we have all done very good work together. today, we have a very important tool to fight trafficking, protect victims, and make sure that we send the message that this is a very severe crime. it should be punished accordingly and it is now defined in the same way in all member states. again, thank you for your contribution.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, human trafficking is a harsh reality in the community. sexual exploitation is the main target of human trafficking mafias, followed by forced labour, domestic servitude, forced marriage, exploitation of children for begging, illegal adoption and organ harvesting, which are other traps and aspects of the problem. the new powers which the treaty of lisbon grants to this parliament in article 63 of the treaty must be used to strengthen community legislation in this area, by calling, among many other things, for the classification of criminal figures who are still not covered by some european criminal codes. we must strengthen our legislation in favour of victims of trafficking from a two-fold perspective: prevention and protection and social and labour integration. it is necessary to establish concrete measures for minors; to criminalise traffickers and intermediaries; to establish measures to discourage lawsuits and confiscate the proceeds of crime; to specify the criminal liability of legal persons involved in any of the stages of trafficking; to strengthen labour inspection and sanctions for labour exploitation and the illegal recruitment of irregular migrants; to strengthen the role of frontex and immigration liaison officers in detecting the routes used by traffickers and their modus operandi; and finally to strengthen the role of europol's joint investigation teams in the fight against mafias. i would like to conclude by adding that the role of the union coordinator for the fight against trafficking in human beings could make a significant contribution to the achievement of the objectives i have mentioned above, but that his powers and capacities must be clearly defined in order to avoid duplication of action or interference with the tasks entrusted to the european police office.
i am pleased to inform you that an official delegation of religious leaders, particularly from the christian world in the middle east, from iraq and lebanon, is present in this chamber. (applause) we are aware of the difficult situation in the region for many christian communities and are therefore pleased to express our support. so you are very welcome to the european parliament.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
yes, mr. speroni, you're seeing what's going on. but on your little screen, do you see it? - i know. well, something is something. - after the vote on the amended proposal:
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, as you are aware, i am just listening and i am looking. i got the message that i have to sit here and take the message – and it is a clear one – to the college. i promise you that i will take the message and of course it will be an objective one, as there was quite a lot of action. but my colleague will return to this after a discussion in the college.
the proposal is therefore returned to the commission.
mr president, pursuant to rule 175 and rule 56 of the rules of procedure, we need to know whether the commission is withdrawing this legislative proposal. the referral back to the committee responsible is therefore not automatic. the commission has to say at this stage whether it will withdraw its proposal and present a new one to parliament.
i, mr cercas, have deduced from the commissioner's words that she will be returning to the commission. that's what i've deduced. but we will ask the commissioner to clarify the commission's position. commissioner, please make the commission's position clear to us.
ladies and gentlemen, stop howling for a moment, and let us apply the rules of procedure. the commission has to tell us whether it is maintaining its proposal or not. so let the commissioner, apart from giving us objective messages - which is very good - tell us whether or not she is still in favour of her proposal.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, you will not blame me, following this discussion which was not completely clear, for taking the outcome of this discussion home to brussels. i will certainly put it on the table of the college. the commission will inform you later of the outcome of its discussions.
well, the commissioner has therefore made one thing clear to us: she is not withdrawing the proposal at the moment. this is what he told us; then we'll see what happens. at this stage, the commission does not withdraw the proposal.
the rapporteur. - i have asked for the floor to remind the honourable members of the importance of this vote today in sending the council a clear message to those countries which have not yet established security in this area. i believe that today we have an opportunity to defend the victims and to make them live without fear and in freedom. it is very important, not only for women, but also for men, for children, victims of terrorism, victims of organized crime, victims of trafficking in women and victims in general.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we are two speakers. i just want to remind the liberal ministers of the european union that it is also very important at this time that this report is supported as a support for the fundamental rights of women. it is in the hands of a liberal minister, but also of other governments which have not yet signed it. let's see if they support this initiative right now.
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
we now come to the explanations of vote.
in writing. - although i voted in favour of this proposal for aid, i consider that it is a measure to alleviate and mitigate the consequences of the capitalist model and does not represent any progress in the fight against the root causes of the crisis. i am in favour of the mobilisation of resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund for citizens made redundant as a result of structural changes in business models or as a direct consequence of the current economic and financial crisis. i believe that the more than two and a half million euros requested as assistance and supplementary aid for the more than 600 redundancies in the retail trade in the netherlands can be useful in the ultimate objective of facilitating the reintegration of these workers into employment. i also voted in favour, convinced that this assistance is complementary to the redundancy payments provided for in national legislation and collective agreements. the commission has also proposed that the egf should be used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry.
in writing. i supported the vote of the european parliament which approved, on tuesday 14 december 2010, the release of €35.6 million for france, whose atlantic coastline was partly devastated by the storm xynthia last february. this money will be used to finance the rehabilitation of infrastructure affected by the disaster. as a member of the european parliament representing the regions most affected, i welcome the release of these funds to repair the damage caused by the storm: it is a real relief for all the french departments affected. this mobilisation shows that for the european union solidarity is not a vain word. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that the storm xynthia in february 2010 affected a large part of france: the departments of charente-maritime and vendée were the most affected, causing 53 deaths and 80 injuries. the property damage was estimated at eur 1 425.43 million. in total, 35.6 million has been released from the eu solidarity fund to repair them.
in writing. − the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in favour of portugal and france under point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (iia). the iia allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. in 2010, so far, only one proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund has been submitted by the commission, a proposal of 24 september 2010 to mobilise eur 13.02 million following severe flooding in ireland in november 2009 (com(2010)0534). this proposal and the corresponding draft amending budget (dab no 8/2010) are still in the process of being adopted by the two arms of the budgetary authority. in parallel to the proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund in favour of portugal and france, the commission has presented a draft amending budget (dab no 9/2010 of 13 october 2010) in order to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2010 budget as provided in point 26 of the iia.
in writing. − according to article 37(1) of the financial regulation, the commission may present draft amending budgets if there are ‘unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances’. on this aspect, and regarding the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in favour of portugal and france on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (iia). the iia allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. the conditions for eligibility to the fund are detailed here and as well as in council regulation no 2012/2002 establishing the eusf. it is important to note that the objective of the fund is not to compensate private damage but to repair infrastructure and it is a tool for refinancing. in 2010, so far, only one proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund has been submitted by the commission, a proposal of 24 september 2010 to mobilise eur 13.02 million following severe flooding in ireland in november 2009 (com(2010)0534).
in writing. - i voted for aid to aragon. this autonomous community has a population density below the eu average (112 inhabitants per square km); its traditional economy is the cultivation of cereals and sheep farming; its retail trade has suffered 1 154 layoffs from 593 companies in a nine-month period; its unemployment in the service sector in february 2010 was 56%, with 73% of them women; 73.9% of the workers laid off were shop and market vendors; 14.4% were in unskilled jobs. it is regrettable that the measures were taken too late, 11 months after the first redundancies. it would be interesting to see what the outcome is of the temporary and extraordinary assistance measures for redundant workers which will be introduced for their reintegration into the labour market. but it should be clear that these actions should not replace those which companies are obliged to take on the basis of national legislation or collective agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adaptation fund support to valencia because, as a consequence of the structural changes in world trade and the financial crisis, 544 redundancies in 143 companies have unexpectedly occurred between 13 april 2009 and 12 january 2010 in the valencia textile industry, redundancies which have had a great impact at local level. 61.7% of the redundant are men and 22% are over 55 years old; 79.9% of them have only basic education and 4 of them are disabled. i believe that the training they will receive during the 14 months of parttime paid work experience will improve their professional qualifications so that they can enter the labour market. as in the previous case, it is regrettable that the measures were applied late, one year and two months after the first redundancies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative so that 330 of the 528 people who were made redundant in the last nine months in 66 companies in valencia in the natural stone processing sector can receive additional support to make it possible for them to re-enter the labour market. of these, 62% are over 45 years old, three have a disability, 51% have no formal education and 34.4% have only basic education. this community has received other aid for job losses in the manufacturing sector. it must therefore take other measures as a matter of urgency. the mobilisation of the egf can only be a part of these measures. and finally, i must regret once again that the measures taken by the spanish state have been implemented so late: one year and three months after the dismissals, when such measures must be implemented immediately and urgently.
in writing. - the crisis has led to a 28% drop in vehicle registrations. in terres de l'ebre (catalonia), employment in the service sector is 60%. the closure of lear automotive has caused a 4% increase in the unemployment rate in this region, which in 2009 stood at 22.7%. the aid is intended to provide a package of personalised services similar to other aid granted in the same region, and to the same sector, in another case covering 1 429 of the 2 330 redundancies. this dossier will apply to 508 of the 515 redundancies recorded in a four-month period in 2010 due to the closure of the lear automotive company. i voted in favour of this initiative so that its implementation will allow the people concerned to return to the world of work and help to reduce unemployment.
in writing. − with the adoption of this text, the ep has requested the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf. it also recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. it emphasises the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market. finally, it stresses that, in accordance with article 6 of the egf regulation, it should be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and reiterates that assistance from the egf must not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor measures restructuring companies or sectors.
in writing. − in 2001, the commission presented a proposal for a directive concerning the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents. in this proposal, it was originally foreseen that refugees could qualify for long-term resident status after five years of legal and continuous residence in a member state. in the course of the negotiations, it was nevertheless decided by the member states to exclude refugees from the scope of the directive. subsequently, in the joint statement from the council and the commission, made at the jha council of 8 may 2003, it was agreed that the commission would table a proposal for a directive on the extension of long-term resident status to refugees and persons under subsidiary protection. this proposal was tabled by the commission in june 2007 using the same legal base as the act it was supposed to amend, i.e. articles 63(3)(a) and 63(4) of the ec treaty. the main objective of the proposal was to give beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally residing in a member state for a period of 5 years legal certainty about their right of residence in a member state, as well as a set of rights comparable to those of eu nationals.
in writing. − the enlargement of the european union to 25 member states in 2004 and then to 27 in 2007 was an opportunity for the union to create a new framework for cooperation with its neighbours to the east and the south. the european union thus engaged in an enlarged neighbourhood policy extending as far as the countries of the south caucasus region and aimed at deepening its relations with the countries located at the eu's external borders, promoting their security, stability and development and preventing new divisions on the european continent. europe thus signalled its growing interest in the states of the south caucasus and it must today pursue its engagement with the countries of this region as an area to be protected near its new frontiers. the process of deepening relations between the eu and the countries of the south caucasus, including georgia, will undoubtedly also help to improve the exercise of justice and respect for freedom. the two agreements recently concluded with georgia – one on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation and the other on facilitation of the issuance of visas – will contribute fully to achieving these objectives.
in writing. − the multiplication of major disasters (natural/man made) outside the european union in recent years has led to increased calls to improve the effectiveness of the existing eu disaster-response capacity. if the eu disaster-response capacity has constantly evolved since the establishment of the community civil protection mechanism in 2001, the rapporteur believes that much more needs to be done to ensure a coordinated, coherent and visible eu response. this need for a more coherent response was also highlighted in the latest communication from the commission on ‘reinforcing the union’s disaster response capacity’, which dates back to march 2008. this communication was supposed to be a first step on the road to a comprehensive and integrated eu response. it included an action plan with a number of practical actions to gradually build up more integrated coordination between the various instruments for disaster response. today we have parliament’s response to that problem.
in writing. − it seems that a significant consequence of the competition brought about by the implementation of mifid has been market fragmentation which has in itself encouraged the explosive growth of hft strategies. regulation needs to recognise that these technological advances are in need of suitable provisions in the legislation so that they do not fall through regulatory gaps and inadvertently cause systemic risk to the overall functioning of the markets. that is, in summary, the proposal in the text adopted today by the ep.
in writing. − chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) risks present a new dimension of possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics due to their transnational character and mass-scale victimisation. an appropriate response against such a danger does not include only ex-post-facto intervention programmes but starts much earlier when dealing with such materials, their proper storage, limited access, controls, etc. at the same time, an aftermath intervention demands large-scale cooperation between different national authorities inside a member state (civil protection, military, law enforcement, etc.) as well as between national authorities of different member states and eu bodies. therefore, an all-hazard coordinated approach is needed. that is what we intend to do with the adoption of this report.
in writing. − over the last few decades, the decentralisation of powers in several member states has considerably reinforced regional and local authorities’ competences in the delivery of community policies. the incorporation by the reform treaty of sub-national subsidiarity into community law for policies of shared competence today allows territorial authorities to be more deeply involved in the decision-making process, both for the design and the implementation of policies, as fully dignified partners to participate in achieving the community objectives. this important step towards better multi-level governance answers repeated requests by parliament to reinforce the involvement of the sub-national authorities in the conception of policies always respecting the different national constitutional assets.
in writing. − when the regulation now being amended was adopted on 19 february 2004, frontex was yet to be officially established. it was eight months later, on 26 october 2004, that the council adopted the regulation establishing a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders. by virtue of the remits set out in its rules of procedure, frontex is responsible for carrying out risk analysis based on the information gathered by the competent authorities in the member states, for facilitating operational cooperation between the member states and third countries, and for cooperating with the competent authorities of third countries and with international organisations through, for example, exchanges of experience on border control issues, the training of border guards, operational information exchanges and joint operations. the amendments proposed here are appropriate and necessary. the troubled times that the european union is experiencing demand appropriate management of immigration flows. this should be seen as having two facets: management of legal immigration and management of illegal and clandestine immigration.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has rejected this single permit proposal. today's vote opens new negotiations and gives a negative answer to the allocation of rights according to the market value of workers. this directive, far from guaranteeing a common set of rights for all migrant workers, based on equal treatment and non-discrimination, proposed a fragmented view of legal migration, where the market value of a migrant worker would determine the extent of his rights! on the eve of the 20th anniversary of the un convention on the protection of the rights of migrant workers and members of their families, this hierarchy is totally unacceptable: the union must finally incorporate the conclusions of numerous studies which demonstrate that the individual as well as collective, economic and societal benefits, for host societies as well as those of origin, go hand in hand with the full and effective exercise by migrants of their rights. the greens will continue to exercise the utmost vigilance to help equip the union with an ambitious migration policy based on the principle of the universality and indivisibility of fundamental rights. that will be the issue in the new discussions opened up by the rejection of this bad agreement.
in writing. − the proposal for a directive on the european protection order, submitted by 12 member states, is an initiative aimed at preventing crime. even when member states have provided for protection orders for victims, the resulting enforcement measures stop at the border of the issuing state. victims, however, may move from one member state to another for many reasons, not least to escape crime. because they move in this way they are defenceless when judicial and law enforcement cooperation fails to protect them by implementing a rapid, effective, europe-wide early-warning and prevention mechanism. setting up a cooperation arrangement along these lines is the aim behind this initiative. the action taken by member states shows that crime can be prevented at european level when the aggressor or aggressors are identified.
in writing. − this legislation represents an important step forward in combating this inhumane and degrading crime, and we welcome its adoption today. however, the aim of the directive was to address prevention, prosecution and protection, and the greens regret that the provisions on victim protection are not as strong as we believe is possible and necessary. the position of victims and their legal status or their rights to legal assistance could and should have been much stronger. hopefully, the commission will now come forward with a proposal to revise the directive on residence permits for victims of trafficking so that we get a truly holistic approach to tackling this hideous crime, as envisaged from the beginning. i am also glad that there is no direct reference requiring member states to take legal measures to penalise those who use services (for example, dining in a restaurant in which victims of trafficking are working). besides the intricacy and legal uncertainty of differentiating the 'what, who and when' in all of this, such measures actually risk bringing victims of trafficking further outside the reach of the authorities.
in writing. − we voted against this agreement because: it aims to return people to a country where, according to the unhcr global appeal 2010–2011, around 212 000 people were internally displaced for more than 16 years, living in need of shelter and means to become self-sufficient, where sexual and gender-based violence is rife in all parts of society and police ill-treatment is tolerated; it also applies to those former residents of abkhazia and south ossetia who do not have any de facto links to georgia; it does not include strict safeguards concerning the violation of fundamental rights and guaranteeing high standards of reception, which are poor in georgia; it contains numerous loopholes and ambiguities which might be clarified in the joint readmission committee in which parliament regrettably has no say, which would be entirely legitimate regarding its new competences; it does not guarantee adequately the protection of personal data – data can be forwarded to ‘other bodies’ without requiring the consent of the person involved.
in writing. - in the course of drawing up this report our group has often expressed substantive disagreements with the line suggested by the author, so that in the end we had no choice but to vote against it.
president of the commission. - the european commission, which i have the honour of chairing, has always worked with the european parliament in full transparency and will always do so in the future. i have no doubt about that and i appreciate the words you have wanted to address to the commission which i chair. i think it is important that we observe in all relations between the commission and parliament the highest standards and the highest principles of transparency and loyal institutional cooperation.
president of the commission. − some of those matters fall within national spheres of responsibility, but in the areas that fall within our sphere of responsibility we have recently proposed some improvements. as regards legislation on access to documents, we have put forward some proposals from commissioner malmström and they are now being considered by you. we have also been making proposals on cyber security because, as you said rightly said, we are becoming more and more digitally-dependent. it is very important that in digital space we have freedom, but this must of course be responsible freedom, with important rights like the right to privacy being protected. data protection is therefore also a question of fundamental rights and we believe the commission has put forward sensible proposals that strike the right balance between freedom – that is non-negotiable – and using the internet in a responsible manner.
president of the commission. − mr watson, i did not come here to ‘wikileak’ with you! you already know my position on this issue. in my state of the union address to you, i mentioned that i will make proposals for eurobonds, taking the shape of project bonds specifically for infrastructure. these would not be for member states to have more debt or to cover excessive debt – because we have a problem with excessive debt in europe – but specifically to fund some important infrastructure projects, mainly with the support of the european investment bank – as you correctly said. this is very much on the agenda and in our financial perspective. in june, we will make some concrete proposals on this issue. let us try to build the necessary consensus, because i think that this is one of the ways to address our current problem. there are very important constraints on the budgets of our member states, and at the same time we need financing for some truly european projects.
mr president, what concerns me is the bottom line. i have the impression that we are killing the messenger, instead of getting to the heart of the matter. the big issue behind wikileaks is the content, which they're proving to be true. for years, you and other colleagues, like minister moratinos, have denied most of it. they have denied that there was european collusion in relation to certain illegal practices by the united states. we now know that this is true, that it has happened, and we are still waiting for a response from many foreign ministries and, in particular, from you. i think it is essential that you give an explanation of the content. and then, another question in relation to the campaign being made against the figure of julian assange. the risk that this person is currently taking, i think it's really important that we consider. we can't ignore that he did something that was necessary, which was to put the truth on the table. and that is what i hope you will understand, and that is what we all hope in this parliament: that you will explain, either here or in a committee which we should reactivate in order to know the truth.
mr president, jędrzejewska, trüpel, lamassoure, lewandowski, böge are the names of a 2011 budget which i believe has, in the end, proved to be moderate and realistic. the committee on budgets had already drawn up a draft which was fully in line with the financial constraint in respect of commitment appropriations and left open the negotiation of payment appropriations because, as the european commission stated, there were and still are fears about the development of payment appropriations in the structural funds for next year. unfortunately, after the vote in the october plenary, we got involved in political negotiations involving the european council itself, and since then everything has gone wrong: the 'charter of the twelve'; the 2.9% payment appropriations imposed by the european council; the pressure on the european parliament and its members; and finally the failure to reach agreement on the flexibility and future financing of iter, which resulted in the cancellation of the meeting of the committee on budgets that should have taken place yesterday. should we draw any conclusions? i think it is. the council should draw them up; the subsequent presidencies should draw them up; the european commission should draw conclusions, and so should we. i would like to draw one conclusion: leave the negotiations on the community budget for other years to the specialists who have spoken today. i would like to take this opportunity to welcome mr schulz to the committee on budgets and remind him that the committee on budgets is meeting in january. i hope that by then you will have come up with an alternative proposal on how to finance iter, having lost €571 million in the 2010 budget.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by mr jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies (com (2010) 0289 - c7-0143/2010 - 2010/0160 (cod)) (a7-0340/2010).
mr president, president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the commissioner and the parliamentary delegation, led by our colleague mr leinen, on the work they have done in cancun, a meeting which i was unfortunately unable to attend. i believe that cancun and its results can be seen, in the same way as my colleague mr seeber said, from the angle of copenhagen: cancun seen from copenhagen. and cancun seen from copenhagen has a first conclusion, and that is that between the two summits there was a fundamental differential factor. in copenhagen expectations were very high and in cancun expectations were much more realistic, as a result of which the assessment of copenhagen was very negative and, on the other hand, that of cancun, both by those who have participated and by the media in general, has been very positive. cancun has learned from copenhagen, and i think this is a very interesting first conclusion. i think that measures have been taken and agreements reached which are certainly not really groundbreaking, but which can be very interesting from the point of view of efficiency. among other things, the creation of a committee and a technology network to promote technological cooperation seems to me extremely important - we are going to vote on a report at this part-session on energy efficiency, which is one of the key elements for an effective fight against climate change - and then issues such as the world bank becoming more involved or the official recognition of countries' actions in relation to emission reductions returning to the united nations procedure and framework also seem very positive to me. finally, i would like to say that it is a year's journey to south africa. it would be very interesting if, just as cancun has learned from copenhagen, we now learn from kyoto and achieve an international framework of reference for an agreement on the fight against climate change that is more flexible, more transparent, more effective and more inclusive.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the directive adopted in 2009 was a success because it updates the regulatory framework that has been governing the safety of toys. it is a big step in the right direction because it shows us the way forward, but it is not enough. we must always be vigilant and watchful that the toys on the market do not endanger the safety and health of children. all toys on the market must comply with the legislation in force. we need to review and improve the monitoring mechanisms for detecting dangerous toys, whether for substances considered toxic - cmr substances - or for fragrances or other dangerous substances, such as hpa compounds. there is a need for clearer rules on the warning regarding the minimum age and the dangers of inappropriate use. we must ensure that the recommended age for toys is based on studies of children's behaviour. we must be able to adapt our legislation to scientific progress, supported by sound studies, and be more rigorous in the surveillance of the market and the importation of toys. it is necessary to work together and to strengthen cooperation between member states and to have customs working together to control the route of imported toys. the citizens are preparing to go christmas shopping and we must ensure that the products they buy meet all the safety requirements.
madam president, what we need at the moment are clear rules, and what we are doing is the exact opposite. i shall therefore make some proposals to restore clarity. this parliament wants the european semester to concentrate on a number of discussions which are now scattered and do not reach public opinion. we want the political responses to the recommendations that are addressed to the member states during this semester to be taken into account when setting the sanctions provided for in the legislative package on governance. in the legislative package, my group wants to make it clear that there are no magic recipes for getting out of the crisis. there are the known recipes for budgetary discipline and structural reforms to maintain competitiveness. with regard to the crisis mechanism - i mentioned it to you yesterday, commissioner - president barroso promised us here that it would be a european mechanism. the council is proposing an intergovernmental mechanism today. is that european in mr barroso's terminology because the fund will apparently be in europe and not in the cayman islands, or does the commission want to help us to make a mechanism based on the community method in which this parliament has a say? and in the case of eurobonds, the commission, the oecd, the experts say it is a good idea, but they say it is a premature idea, and that is why we are late. what i am proposing to the commission is that we start a debate on saving a eurobond system which gives reasonable financing to virtuous countries and punishes the non-virtuous by going to the markets at genuinely dissuasive rates. that is the only way to properly combine fiscal discipline and economic growth. and don't come at me with that if it's early or it's late, because now, what we know, is that we've always been late. let's see if, for once, changing the rules, we get there early.
madam president, this year that is ending - 2010 - has been described more than once as a year in which we have lived dangerously. that is why i think the debate should be useful to highlight the lessons of 2010 so that we can draw conclusions in 2011. the first concerns the unsustainable asymmetries between the financial components of the european economy and the imbalances in its real economy. secondly, the unsustainable asymmetry between the single currency and the requirements of coordination of economic, fiscal and budgetary policies, with a still fragile balance sheet. the third and most important point concerns the asymmetry between the intensity of the crisis and the slowness of the response times. from an economic point of view, this means that the european central bank must be more active in the fight against the speculative assault on sovereign debt and we must lay the foundations in 2011 for a european debt agency capable of issuing eurobonds. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the stability and growth pact, which is a report on the need for taxation, the financial levy and the levy against speculation, short-term speculative transactions and the need for own resources in the european union. but one debate that matters to this parliament is the debate on the political consequences of the crisis, because the motto of the european union - i stress this again - is 'united in diversity', in no case 'united in the face of adversity'. this parliament must therefore stand up to those who wish to stigmatise some member states against others, dividing european public opinion, europeans against europeans. this parliament represents 500 million europeans in a union of 27 states, none of which, like the orwell farm, is more equal than the other.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the group of the european people's party will vote enthusiastically on this report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the commission and the council on this agreement. we coined the term 'democratic deficit' in the 1980s. we are not talking about the european parliament, but about the council of ministers, which is the body that makes decisions in the european union, on the basis of proposals from the commission, and this parliament is only consulted. the battle of this parliament since the 1980s, through the maastricht, amsterdam, nice, constitutional and lisbon treaties, has been to close this democratic gap, and i believe that with the lisbon treaty, with the new powers of the european parliament, with the participation of the national parliaments, we have achieved that objective. and we are rounding it off today with this citizens' legislative initiative, which was due, in the work of the convention, to the good cooperation between the national parliaments and the european parliament. i would like to mention the names of our german social democrat colleague, jürgen meyer, and alain lamassoure, who brought this initiative to the plenary of the convention and who made it happen. so i think we have come full circle, madam president. i believe that when we vote on the initiative today, we will have put on the table the death certificate of the concept of 'democratic deficit'. and now, ladies and gentlemen, we must act responsibly, and today we have the opportunity to do so. by voting on the union's budget, we will be doing what is expected of us: a responsible parliament and a co-decision parliament. i think it is a good day for europe, ladies and gentlemen.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the unfinished business of democracy, which is a new approach to the problem of the unfinished business of democracy. and indeed, we are in the middle of an unfinished journey in which many stages have been covered, but we are in a period of risk, of uncertainty and of many doubts. but within these doubts, we have certainties. the first is that the building that has stood the test has been that of representative democracy: it is the building of our institutions; without free parliaments based on the will of the people, democracy has never survived. but it is also true that democracy today needs innovations, reforms, changes that improve the quality, maintaining the buildings that have served us so far and maintaining the strength of its foundations. what kind of changes do we need? we need to move towards a democracy that broadens the participatory forum; that citizens are more than voters every four or five years; a democracy that broadens the deliberative space, where citizens discuss, reason, exchange their opinions; and a democracy that broadens social capital, where citizens break out of their isolation and become part of the community. and we also need a european dimension to that democracy. i think that is what we have achieved with the regulation of this citizens' initiative. from now on there are no longer two legitimations, there are two voices of the citizens: one is in this parliament and the other is in the citizens' initiative. and with that, we will make a stronger, more participatory and more legitimate democracy.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs because their work will make it easier for europeans to turn their concerns into initiatives in the european parliament. today we are improving democracy, bringing decision-making processes closer to the citizens and making them more open and deliberative, always looking at the people. this regulation is part of the 2020 policy and is a basic tool for managing the knowledge and talent available in society. it will also force us to recycle ourselves, to be more visible as policy makers in virtual communities, in the digital society, and to exercise other kinds of leadership that are closer and more human. it's a step towards policy innovation, which should help us to be more transparent and to regain people's trust in politics. finally, the european citizens' initiative will be an opportunity for regional levels to overcome the lack of recognition they have in the current institutional structure of the union. i am sure that, with the will and imagination, the regions will also use this instrument to get their proposals straight to the house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at the adoption of the european citizens' initiative, for which i was the shadow rapporteur in the committee on culture and education, while at the same time lamenting the fact that this parliament did not vote on two issues which i consider to be fundamental: the right of young people over 16 to sign this initiative and the vote of residents. we know that these initiatives are not provided for in the lisbon treaty and these are some of the reasons why we opposed this treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to ensure the mobilisation of eu funds totalling around eur 70 million in commitment and payment appropriations from the european union solidarity fund for natural disasters for portugal, which submitted an application to mobilise the fund in connection with a disaster caused by landslides and floods on the island of madeira, and also for france, which submitted an application to mobilise the fund following a disaster caused by hurricane xynthia, as i consider solidarity support to these member states necessary to enable them to cope with and minimise the consequences of these natural phenomena. the eu solidarity fund was set up to show the european union's solidarity with the people of regions hit by disasters. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it calls for the mobilisation of funds for this purpose and for the proper use of the mechanism provided for.
in writing. − the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows for mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available for one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. for the 2011 budget, additional expenditure is required above and beyond the ceilings of headings 1a and 4. it is therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in accordance with point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement. the amounts to be mobilised are as follows: eur 18 million for the lifelong learning programme under heading 1a; eur 16 million for the competitiveness and innovation programme under heading 1a; eur 71 million for palestine under heading 4. the two arms of the budgetary authority are reminded that publication of the decision on the above in the official journal of the european union shall not take place later than publication of the 2011 budget.
in writing. it was valuable last month for all political groups to come together to get a political agreement on future eu funding beyond the 2011 budget. but after all the fuss they caused during the negotiations, the three main political groups gave in at the last strait. the european parliament, although empowered with its new powers, has just missed the opportunity to assert itself in its role as the decision-maker on budgetary matters. the letter from the belgian prime minister, which is presented to us by the belgian presidency and which guarantees that the treaty will be respected, and the fact that parliament is involved in the forthcoming discussions, is in no way a guarantee of a successful political outcome. the negative vote we have expressed reflects this missed opportunity and the subsequent appointment clause. the best way to achieve this is to bring together, on the same method as the convention, european and national parliaments, national governments and the european commission. as for the iter megaproject, which is and will be mobilising far too much money, we are not saddened by its postponement. we will try once again to demonstrate the financial gap it represents as soon as it is brought back to the table of the ep's committee on budgets.
in writing. − with this vote, the ep: (1) calls on the institutions involved to take the necessary action to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; (2) recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis and emphasises the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market; (3) stresses that, in accordance with article 6 of the egf regulation, it should be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment and reiterates that assistance from the egf must not replace either actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, or measures restructuring companies or sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the purpose of the regulation is to create legal certainty for couples wishing to separate or divorce when they belong to different states of the union, by guaranteeing predictability and flexibility. the initiative adopted has been a step forward in this respect, but it is regrettable, first of all, that the opportunity to extend the scope of application to the recognition of marriages, nullity, guardianship of children and inheritances has been lost. nor is there any mention of the existence of other types of unions, such as those between homosexual couples, which are recognised in some member states. secondly, it is also regrettable that only 15 of the 27 member states are prepared to sign up to this enhanced cooperation, which will be detrimental to the citizens of the countries that do not. i therefore hope and hope that in the future the scope and the number of countries which are in favour of this enhanced cooperation will be extended, because they owe it to the citizens they represent.
in writing. − this text sets out to solve problems such as the following. a and b are nationals of different member states who entered into a same-sex marriage in one of the member states which have introduced legislation to permit such marriages. they have been habitually resident for three years in a member state which does not permit same-sex marriages but participated in the adoption of the regulation on applicable law under the enhanced cooperation procedure. a and b wish to dissolve their marriage. under the rules of regulation no 2201/2003 on jurisdiction, the only courts having jurisdiction in those circumstances are the courts of the member state in which they are habitually resident. this is patently not fair on the couple concerned, who would be put to a considerable amount of inconvenience and loss of time in order to bring their divorce proceedings within the jurisdiction of another court.
in writing. - i could not support this report because, although i support many of the points in it and the general proposal to strengthen transparency and improve the information and supervision of credit agencies and other financial institutions, this proposal will serve the interests of investors, professionals far removed from what has been called the 'real economy', as it gives them greater legal certainty. so while i believe that, as this proposal suggests, we must work hard for transparency and the right to clear information in the financial system, i believe that it is more necessary to put an end to financial speculation and to make a regulatory effort to put financial markets under the protection of the states. this report works along the lines of transparency, information and a certain degree of supervision of financial operators, but it does so in a timid way and from a complacent approach to the financial and pro-capitalist industry, which i neither share nor support.
in writing. − the global financial crisis, to which the credit rating agencies made their contribution, showed the need to set up a mechanism for monitoring and supervising these agencies. this was the purpose behind the adoption, in 2009, of regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies. this made it possible to establish a european system for registering and supervising credit rating agencies which issue ratings used in the european union. it also lays down the conditions for the use in the european union of ratings issued by third-country agencies, by applying a double system of equivalence and endorsement of ratings. during the debates preceding the adoption of regulation (ec) no 1060/2009, your rapporteur stressed the need for eu-wide joint oversight of credit rating agencies’ products and integrated supervision of them. this principle was upheld and the commission undertook to draft a legislative proposal along these lines. the agreement reached on the architecture of european supervision which will enter into force on 1 january 2011 now makes the effective implementation of rating agency supervision possible. it is stressed in the regulation establishing the esma that this authority will exercise its own supervisory powers in relation, in particular, to credit rating agencies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive repealing eight council directives on metrology because, like the rapporteur, i support the overall objective of better regulation. i also support the view that 'more time should be given to member states to examine whether the repeal of directives will not lead to legal uncertainty'. i believe that it is necessary to repeal and simplify these directives which refer to measuring instruments by revising the legal instrument which is the basis of metrology: the directive on measuring instruments. in general, i consider the simplification of the eu legislative acquis to be a positive development, as it can improve citizens' access to the eu's legislative work and make it possible to work more efficiently in this area.
in writing. − with this vote, the ep shows that it favours the general objective of better regulation. however, with regard to this proposal it is not that clear what the best option will be. the commission concludes in their impact assessment, when looking at the different options concerning these 8 metrology directives (full repeal, repeal with conditions, do nothing), that ‘no option stands out’. still, for reasons of better regulation, the commission favours the full repeal of all directives (and relies on mutual recognition of national regulation) above harmonisation (i.e. re-regulation in mid). the ep is of the opinion that member states should be given more time to investigate whether repealing the directives will lead to legal uncertainty which makes european harmonisation of rules necessary. therefore we have opted for a solution where the directives will be repealed and which also provides sufficient time to analyse the possible consequences in context with the broader review of the basic legal instrument in this field, the ‘measurement instruments directive’ (2004/22/ec).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the citizens' initiative because, although it only vaguely satisfies the position of my group by ignoring important elements such as the possibility that initiatives may propose changes to the treaties, or that the period for collecting signatures be extended from the 12 months proposed to 18, i believe that the report is an improvement, insufficient but considerable, on the text presented by the commission. the citizens' initiative is a mechanism of public participation enshrined in the treaty of lisbon to enable citizens and civil society to participate in the european policy-making process. i have supported this text as it facilitates the joint elaboration and procedure of the mechanism, for example by simplifying the process of registering initiatives or by reducing the requirement of the number of member states to be represented by citizens (from 1/3 to 1/4). the commission also proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. citizens were waiting for this new instrument which will allow them to have a say in european policies. and they have already shown that they will be able to use it to influence the legislative debate, as evidenced by the petition for a moratorium on gmos launched by greenpeace and avaaz, which was sent last week to commission president josé manuel barroso. unfortunately, citizens came before the legislators and the petition arrived before the procedure was finalized, which will make the citizens' initiative usable in early 2012. it is therefore up to us as members of parliament to support the demand expressed by nearly 1.2 million people and to ensure that it is met with favourable results. parliament, which has been able to play a leading role in the negotiations with the council and the commission to make the initiative as accessible and effective as possible, has paved the way: nothing can now prevent citizens from taking a direct part in the functioning of the union.
in writing. − greens/efa have supported the proposed common resolution, as well as many of the amendments suggested. i'm glad that the reference remained untouched where we say that the ep strongly urges the commission to come forward with bold and innovative proposals for a substantive revision of the own resources system.
in writing. − among the common points several groups agreed, ours amongst them, are the following: 1. welcomes the adoption of the strategic action plan 2010-2013 and of its partnerships, and hopes that it will contribute added value in relation to the cotonou agreement and the union for the mediterranean and that it is an expression of an ambitious approach to intercontinental relations; 2. stresses that the africa-eu joint strategy’s founding principles should be designed to support developing countries’ sustainable needs in order to fight poverty, guarantee a decent income and livelihood as well as the fulfilment of basic human rights, including social, economic and environmental rights; 3. hopes that the lessons will be learned from the difficulties which arose during the implementation of the first ‘action plan’, for 2008-2010 and hopes that the intentions expressed in principle in the final declaration by heads of state and of government will be acted on; 4. notes with interest that both the private sector and civil society, particularly from africa, could be allowed to make a far more effective contribution to the strategy than has been the case to date.
in writing. - as the report states, i regret that neither the council nor the commission followed the recommendations of the 2007 report on the use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners and did not share information on this with parliament. i support the general assessment that the eu must step up its efforts to prevent human and fundamental rights from being violated, as has happened in too many cases this year with migrants and third country nationals living in the european union. although i do not share some of the assessment of the report on the role of the eu as a guarantor of human rights in the world and the role of the european external action service, being vague about the compatibility of this role and the need to respect the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other states, i voted in favour as i support the general spirit of the need for the european union to work in all its facets with respect for human rights.
in writing. − with this report the ep stresses, once again, that the effective protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms constitutes the core of democracy and the rule of law in the eu and an essential condition of the consolidation of the european area of freedom, security and justice and that it requires actions at various levels (international, european, national, regional and local level); stresses, moreover, the role that regional and local authorities can play in the concrete implementation and in the promotion of such rights; therefore calls on all eu institutions, member states’ governments and parliaments to build on the new institutional and legal framework created by the treaty of lisbon to devise a comprehensive internal human rights policy for the union which ensures effective accountability mechanisms, both at national and eu level, to address human rights violations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the effects of advertising on consumer behaviour as it clearly aims at improving the existing legislative framework for consumer protection against advertising and the necessary revision of it in the light of new forms of advertising which are not regulated. i also gave my support to the report as it seeks to improve harmonisation between member states to avoid legal loopholes which allow companies to implement misleading advertising practices in the eu member states. i think it is appropriate to refer to the mechanisms of covert advertising that have developed and take place on the internet, where, in many cases, advertising is disguised by opinions or comments on social networks, forums or blogs. i also welcome the concern that this report conveys to the council and the commission about the real risk posed by companies that are both content providers and advertising concessionaires. these are the main reasons, among others, why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report deals with unfair commercial practices in the advertising field, as defined in the unfair commercial practices directive (ucpd), and concentrates on issues arising from the development of new advertising practices and technologies. it does not discuss b2b relations, which are covered inter alia by directive 2006/114/ec. advertising is a tool that benefits both the internal market (oiling the wheels of economic activity by stimulating competition, competitiveness, innovation and creativity) and consumers (by increasing choice and lowering prices). it is a key economic sector: the eu online advertising market alone is worth more than eur 14 billion. however, it must not be idealised: advertising can also involve unfair practices, intrude into public spaces (e.g. in the form of advertising billboards) and the private arena (e.g. in the form of unsolicited e-mails), target vulnerable groups of people (such as children and those in excessive debt), create potential entry barriers to the internal market (where the outlay required is too high) and distort the internal market (by causing consumers to buy goods or services they would not normally have purchased).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mandatory 20% energy efficiency target is important not only in terms of co2 reduction, which it is, but also in social terms. a large part of european household expenditure is spent on energy bills. introducing efficiency measures that reduce energy expenditure and contribute to reducing energy poverty is a socialist objective.
in writing. − this report is a powerful and timely reminder to the commission and the council of the importance of a binding energy-saving target ahead of the crucial energy summit on 4 february 2011 and as the commission prepares its energy efficiency action plan. ambitious eu measures on energy saving and efficiency are essential if europe is to respond to the challenges of energy security and climate change. they also make economic sense, create jobs and save consumers money on their energy bills. until now, member states have been reneging on their pledge to reduce energy consumption by 20% by 2020, by making insufficient progress. making the target binding will help (as in the case of renewable energy) to ensure that the eu governments actually deliver on this potential. the report also calls for stronger measures to address the energy consumption of buildings, notably by renovating the existing building stock. with buildings accounting for 40% of energy consumption in the eu, it is essential to tackle this sector head on. the greens hope that the eu energy summit will also address this crucial issue.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted that the public is here. that's good! i am of course grateful to parliament for putting this matter on the agenda for this plenary. it allows us to address an important subject which has been the subject of considerable work in the council in recent months. i am, of course, aware of the importance which this parliament attaches to economic governance and its links with broader social issues, as set out in article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the obligation under article 9 applies to the definition and implementation of all union policies and actions, including therefore all work on future economic governance. i would first like to recall that during the belgian presidency the importance of implementing article 9 and therefore the cross-cutting clause was mentioned on several occasions. i would like to recall the conclusions adopted by the council on 6 december on the social dimension in the context of an integrated europe 2020 strategy. these conclusions call on the european commission to strengthen and encourage the use of the existing social impact assessment system. it asked the commission to draw up a report on the way article 9 is implemented in european work and policies through the open method of coordination. it also called on the commission to look into ways of implementing social mainstreaming and therefore article 9 in the context of its flagship initiative, the european platform against poverty, which is due to be published in the very next few days. with regard to the new macroeconomic surveillance and coordination mechanism, the council sees employment and social protection not only as outcomes that could be affected by the new macroeconomic surveillance framework and whose impact should be studied, but also as factors for macroeconomic and budgetary growth in the short and medium term. this is an important element if we are to avoid an unbalanced macroeconomic framework and preserve the institutional balance required by the treaties. the council's desire to give concrete prominence to article 9 is also evident in the context of the european semester, which must reflect, in an integrated vision, a balanced position between the europe 2020 strategy and the stability pact. the principles contained in article 9 must therefore be transposed across all these documents and legislative measures to form an integrated whole. the council worked in two phases to this end. the first phase of the council's work was to articulate the european employment strategy provided for in the treaty and the new economic governance framework. in the conclusions adopted on 21 october, the council defined the place of the european employment strategy in economic governance. in the second phase, at the council meeting on 6 december, the council adopted a new instrument for multilateral monitoring of employment and social policies (joint assessment framework) which will allow better monitoring of the employment and social integration policies of the member states and, therefore, better account to be taken of these dimensions at european level. these new instruments will have to be mobilised in the preventive phase of macroeconomic surveillance in order to pay sufficient attention to labour market situations and social problems which could weaken emu. they will of course also be central instruments for the thematic monitoring of the europe 2020 strategy. the council also recalled its intention to contribute to both thematic surveillance based on the five broad objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and macroeconomic surveillance, as these two surveillance frameworks are closely linked. and, following the request of the belgian presidency, the social protection committee delivered an opinion on the social dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, in which it stressed the synergy between the priorities of the 2020 strategy and the inseparable whole of the objectives set by the european council. i would also point out that the council has mentioned article 9 in other conclusions: the conclusions on pensions and the council conclusions on social services of general interest. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our discussion this afternoon allows us to address a number of issues relating to economic governance and, in particular, its social aspects. as president of the council, i am of course listening to your speeches and i look forward to a fruitful exchange of views which will help us all in the subsequent negotiations.
member of the commission. − madam president, article 9 of the lisbon treaty, to which you are referring, really defines the specific features of the european social economic model. when you read our europe 2020 strategy you can see it explicit reinforces this very model of europe by bringing together efforts to improve performance in areas such as labour participation, lifelong education, labour adaptability and mobility and social inclusion. however, this is not a sufficient answer at this time of severe challenges, when the climate of crisis in europe is affecting negatively, or even dramatically, the real economy, public finances, the labour market and the quality of life in europe. to address the challenges revealed by the crisis, the commission has launched several policy initiatives. to reinforce the stability of our financial system, the eu has agreed on a new architecture for financial regulation. this has been debated in parliament. secondly, to address the challenges to public finances and macroeconomic imbalances, the european commission has proposed a comprehensive strengthening of economic governance in the european union, the legislative package you referred to in your question. the package includes, as you know, proposals to address excessive public debt more seriously than in the past by defining a satisfactory pace of debt reduction. it also proposes minimum requirements for national fiscal frameworks to ensure that they are in line with treaty obligations as well as a monitoring system for macroeconomic imbalances such as large current account deficits or bubbles in the housing market. it underlines prevention and prudence to ensure better preparedness in times of economic downturn. to ensure the credibility of the new framework, the commission is proposing a wide range of sanctions that should start kicking in at an early stage. the philosophy behind the proposed legislation is that it should help member states to follow disciplined policies and lay the basis for stable long-term growth performance, which is critical to the welfare of european citizens, while making an important contribution to the prevention of future crises. given the current economic situation it is really important to have this economic governance framework in place as soon as possible. as to the impact assessment, the government reforms were prepared by far-reaching analysis in the emu@10 study in 2008. also, in preparing and following up the commission communications announcing the new governance structures of the so-called eu semester that were adopted in may and june 2010, the commission discussed its proposal with many stakeholders alongside the european parliament and the council and promoted vigorous, broad-based debate of the issues. and of course, we was developed the proposals in the light of past performance and lessons learnt. and what are the major lessons? the major lesson is that preventive action is much more valuable than imposing corrective sanctions on a state that is already in difficulties. therefore our emphasis is on influencing positively the national policy mix responsible – and here is the real responsibility – for the trade-off between real economic revival and growth, and austerity and consolidation of public finances. europe needs both.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr president, commissioner, following on from mrs berès's question, i would like to stress the economic model on which we in the european people's party are based: the social market economy, which means that we must put all our energies into action to get out of the crisis, to fight poverty but, much more than that, to ensure the social inclusion of a number of our fellow european citizens who are now on the verge of the crisis. we must now be concerned with this social inclusion, on the one hand to ensure that these citizens return to work, which is the development of employment in the fight against the crisis, but on the other hand, and this is extremely important, that in the coming years we can have, in all the member states, training plans, initial training measures and continuing training measures, which enable our fellow european citizens to adapt to the jobs of tomorrow, to the new skills we will need, to the raising of the level of skills expected in the 2020 strategy. so, based on this article 9, we see clearly that there is an impact to be developed also, extremely important, beyond everything that is done in terms of financial systems, so that we can have educated citizens who can be totally stakeholders totally in society, because they are active in this society, and active means trained, ready to hold the jobs of tomorrow. i therefore ask the commission's policies to be consistent with this objective, otherwise we will miss the objective of a europe with strong social cohesion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eyes of the citizens are on the european union; they know that the process of european integration has placed many aspects of their lives under the responsibility of the community institutions: many decisions are taken in the common area. many of the traditional instruments of the states have also been transferred to the european level and economic policies are a matter of common concern at european level - this is recognised by everyone - and the european union is therefore at the centre of this crisis: that is where the eyes are. we are not - as some claim - in a 'post-crisis' scenario, at most, we may be in a 'post-recession' scenario. the growth forecast for this year will be low and uneven and the problem is that next year, the forecasts indicate that it could still fall slightly. the number of unemployed in the european union now stands at 23 million. it is a crisis which has opened up a major social gap and which has also put pressure on public finances, even calling into question the future of the euro. strengthening the economic governance of the european union is essential to respond to the crisis and secure the future of the community project. it is necessary to meet our common challenges of restoring growth and jobs, changing the economic model and driving global sustainable development, and we must do so by securing the future of the european social model. the first economic crisis, the crisis of 1929, taught us that the public authorities were committed to restoring growth and employment; the second, the reconstruction of europe after the second world war, taught us that the building of the new europe had to be based on social justice. none of these lessons should be forgotten and both should be fully interwoven in the future of a sustainable europe. our treaty on the functioning of the eu, in article 9, says that 'in defining and implementing its policies and actions, the union shall take into account requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion and a high level of education, training and protection of human health'. so it's not just about austerity. austerity can lead to contraction. we need policies which are also pro-growth, and therefore responsible policies. nor is it about growing first and then sharing: we have learned that sharing contributes to growth. nor is progress to be made in order to meet the basic needs of citizens: we have learned that education, health, social security and public services are fundamental to the progress of societies. if they do not exist, they are costs that weigh on the future of our society, and a healthy economy is not possible in a sick society. that is why we are asking the following questions: should the future legislative framework on economic governance be in line with the model of social europe, with article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union? is there really an impact assessment? and do we really want president barroso to deliver on his commitment to social impact and to state clearly that europe needs a new social pact, also in taxation standards, in labour standards, a model that ensures employment, equity, environmental responsibility and global development? any other reform will be insufficient.
madam president, the new strategic concept of nato, born in lisbon, has been established to try to meet and adapt, firstly, to a new context, namely the disappearance of the bloc system and the end of the cold war and, secondly, to adapt to the new configuration of threats, especially to globalisation and to the fact that our armies have no apparent enemies and that our enemies have no armies. on the basis of this new strategic approach and always taking into account article 5 of the washington treaty as regards mutual assistance, there are three aspects which interest me. firstly, how to shape this strategic alliance with europe: i would like to ask you, mrs ashton, whether you think that turkey should participate as much as possible in the actions and development of the common foreign and security policy. secondly, the ratification of the start treaty by the new united states congress. do you think that this new strategic approach will be affected if this ratification does not take place? and finally, what is your view, mrs ashton, on the question of the missile shield? do you think this notion compromises the thesis of reducing nuclear arsenals in any way? because it seems that there are conflicting views among the member states.
madam president, mrs ashton, you know perfectly well that my group in this parliament is opposed to the existence of nato. it is totally opposed, among other things, because we are not in favour of any state in the world - or group of states, such as the nato military alliance - being able to use force without the express mandate of the united nations security council. since 1999, at its washington summit, nato has endorsed the possibility of using force without a mandate from the security council in this strategic concept. it is a step backwards and a frontal attack on the international law which was so hard to build up after the two world wars. we therefore do not share that philosophy, we do not share it with nato or any state which would presume to use force without such an express mandate. and, furthermore, it goes right into what were civil responses to problems that generate insecurity: organized crime, terrorism... it has never been a matter of military response, always civilian, of international police space, of judicial space and therefore we do not consider it to require a military response, nor the risk associated with natural resources or uncontrolled mass migration movements. they're not a matter of military response. the greatest killers in the world are hunger and poverty - the main weapons of mass destruction - and that cannot be opposed by a military force of the characteristics of nato.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon summit has certainly served to modernise nato and to adapt it to the new security challenges. we should welcome the fact that the new strategic concept adds new challenges, such as terrorism, the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, cyber defence and energy security. it is also welcome that the new concept points to the need to strengthen the strategic relationship between nato and the european union. however, a clear division of labour is still lacking, so as to be efficient and not to redouble efforts in times of crisis. the treaty of lisbon has brought about a breakthrough in the common security and defence policy, which we must now consolidate. the objective is clear: the european union must be able to mobilise the civilian and military capabilities needed to assume its international responsibilities, and the common security and defence policy must make an important contribution to atlantic security. but what is not clear is how this collaboration with the alliance will be organised to make it really effective. it would be important, mrs ashton, if you could tell us more about this.
the following is the report by józsef szájer , on behalf of the committee on legal affairs , on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers (com (2010) 0083 - c7-0073/2010 - 2010/0051 (cod)) (a7-0355/2010).
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon introduces substantial changes in the process of developing and implementing community legislation, by distinguishing between delegated and implementing acts. the earlier original legislation provided only for enforcement measures. this regulation is essential for an orderly transition from the old to the new system and for the proper exercise of the implementing powers conferred on the commission in accordance with the new treaty of lisbon. it strengthens the democratic principle by recognising the right of parliament to scrutinise, increases transparency with the annual report and incorporates a revision clause to improve it in the light of experience. it therefore meets the requirements of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. in the area of financial services, it will contribute to increasing legal certainty and the effectiveness of legislation. it complements the objective of the omnibus directive to limit the powers conferred on the commission under the old framework to a period of three years from the entry into force of the new treaty, and provides for the adoption of the implementing technical standards, which are envisaged in the new supervisory architecture and sectoral regulation in the field of financial services. i am therefore, as rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, very pleased and i congratulate mr szájer. i thank the president for his generosity and i also wish you all a very happy christmas and a very happy new year.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank everyone for all the contributions, which reflect how complex an issue we are dealing with. allow me to react to some of the comments. concerning the review and our commitment to it in relation to all the relevant acts, we have here an extremely ambitious plan and i have been discussing it with mr lehne during our framework agreement discussions: we have 299 plus 153 acts to align. i think that if we say we would like to do it within the period of this legislature, it is a very ambitious plan. if i say it is ‘our’ ambition, i mean that on behalf of the three institutions because this clearly requires loyal cooperation from all of us. i would like to assure mr mitchell of the commission’s utmost respect for parliament. i would like to highlight one paragraph in the draft commission statement which is attached to the proposal. i will just read it out: ‘while this alignment exercise is under way, the commission will keep the european parliament regularly informed on draft implementing measures related to these instruments which should become, in the future, delegated acts.’ so our commitment to transparency and clarity is absolutely clear. i would like also to confirm, here in this house, that we will offer parliament the maximum amount of information. parliament will receive all information at the same time as the committees, so we will do our utmost to keep parliament informed also in this procedure. i think i have to thank mr lehne for clarifying the situation in the debate. what we are discussing today are implementing acts, and this regulation does not prejudge in any way whether we should use delegated or implementing acts in the future. concerning the issue of alignment, i think mr de castro was not here when i was reading out the agreed statement of the belgian presidency with a full commitment to loyal cooperation to achieve this ambitious goal of full alignment in the coming years. i think there is a reassurance here that it is not only in parliament’ interests, but also in the commission’s and the council’s interests to proceed very quickly. i think this is very clear and i am sure that we will honour this agreement. concerning the issue of politicisation of anti-dumping and countervailing measures, i think, actually, that we will see the opposite, because you know what the system is today: that a simple majority of the member states’ representatives can block a commission proposal. this would be much more difficult in the future because you would need a qualified majority of the member states representatives to block it. so i think that what we are doing here will actually strengthen the union approach and strengthen the position of the commission in the trade talks, exactly as prescribed and projected by the lisbon treaty. if you will allow me, i will conclude by underlining the importance of legal certainty in this matter because, of course, when we are dealing with sensitive issues like trade, like anti-dumping measures, like countervailing measures, we need to have very well established procedures and we need to have a clear division of roles and responsibilities. parliament needs the very clear scrutiny rights which have been given to it by the lisbon treaty, and we need the legal certainty to operate in this very important legislative area because you know how often these measures are disputed in various international fora. therefore, i would plead with the honourable members to support these proposals without amendment because i think they are really good for the position of the european union in world affairs.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the first item is the report by chrysoula paliadeli, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union action on the european heritage label (com (2010) 0076 - c7-0071/2010 - 2010/0044 (cod)) (a7-0311/2010).
member of the commission. - the mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs paliadeli, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their strong support for the commission's proposal on the european heritage label. as you know, this proposal was one of the first adopted by the new commission immediately after it took office and it is one of our priorities in the cultural field for the coming years. through this label we intend to give european citizens, especially young people, new opportunities to get to know our common and at the same time diverse cultural heritage, our history and the development of the european union. i am convinced that this will help european citizens to become closer to the european union. the european heritage label will also contribute to the growth of cultural tourism and will bring both physical and economic benefits. the cooperation between parliament and the commission on the label has been very constructive in recent months and i am pleased that our approach is common on many key issues. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new logo is not used in the same way as the original logo. we share the view of parliament that the quality and prestige of the initiative are of great importance. we also appreciate your efforts to keep the rules and procedures as clear, simple and flexible as possible, so that they are easy for citizens to understand and for the member states and the european union to apply. however, a small number of your amendments are more politically sensitive. i am referring in particular to the deletion of the transitional provisions. the premises which have been awarded the intergovernmental label and the member states have high expectations of the transitional period, which will enable them to join the new system quickly, provided of course that they meet the new quality criteria. this is probably one of the main issues that we will have to discuss with the council in our tripartite meetings in the coming months. however, i am confident that compromise solutions acceptable to all sides will be found which will ensure the long-term success of the european cultural heritage label. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you again for your excellent cooperation.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the european heritage label is certainly a very relevant project, for at least two reasons: on the one hand it allows european citizens to feel closer to their history and their common and diverse heritage; at the same time it is a good tool to promote cultural tourism and stimulate the economy. i would therefore like to thank commissioner vassiliou and the rapporteur, mrs paliadeli, for their initiative and their work, and i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that, although it was originally an initiative of the member states, we now have to give it clearly a community dimension. in this sense, the european heritage label should not be a sum of sites selected at national level, but should reflect a common european vision. and having a european vision implies common criteria and absolute transparency in the process of pre-selecting the states and, secondly, a european vision also requires respect for territorial, cultural and linguistic diversity. their success depends on us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to join in congratulating mrs paliadeli on her excellent work. i think we can say today, after the vote on this report, that a new commitment to europeanism is about to be successfully completed, and i think that, in these times, it is no trifle to commit ourselves to europeanism. i also believe that the decision of the states and the commission to place the european heritage label within the european union will help to increase its visibility, its prestige, its credibility, but will also reinforce the deep-rooted ideals of cohesion and solidarity among european citizens. this stamp is an important step towards the construction of europe because it will bring us closer together and bring all citizens closer to our common history. when you hear so many voices claiming so often the individual history - many times, the national history - i think that initiatives like today's to claim a common history and make it known really has a symbolic value and a very important value. i believe that what we are going to do with this european heritage seal is also going to help the younger generations to understand the ideas, what was behind the founding fathers of this european union, to see that this european union, this building of europe that we are doing is a process and that, like all processes, it is going to end up depending on the people that we are working on it. i believe that in this sense the european union will be what the citizens want it to be. that's why i encourage us to work together. i have now, of course, heard mr hans-peter martin say that we should avoid bureaucracy. of course you are! but above all, we must strive for the common history and make it known.
mr. hannu takkula has asked permission to ask you a question. mr. takkula, you may ask mrs. badia a question.
mr takkula, a moment: the procedure ... we will give you the floor later, as a speaker, because your group was not present. we shall call you among the various speakers who will speak next and you will have two minutes to speak.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the recommendation by doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation establishing the terms and conditions for the participation of the swiss confederation in the 'youth in action' programme and in the action programme in the field of lifelong learning (2007-2013) (12818/2010 - c7-0277/2010 - 2010/0231 (nle)) (a7-0334/2010).
thank you doris, i want to congratulate you not only on this report, but also on your work and your enthusiasm and thank you, in addition, for your presence in madrid this weekend to promote the lux prize. i won't be able to be with you on the 17th, although i would love to. on the 18th and 19th i'm also going to participate in those meetings. thank you, and the truth is that this parliament needs people like doris pack to achieve the efficiency we all need. (applause) this is the end of the debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the welfare of laying hens, by mr paolo de castro, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0178/2010 - b7-0657/2010).
mr president, in january 2012 400 spanish egg producers could disappear, around 30% of the total in my country, with a loss of production of 300 000 tonnes of eggs. the european union could stop producing those 80 million eggs, those 2 million tonnes, and we could only get them covered by imports from third countries, whose animal welfare standards are far below those of the european union, if we do not act very intelligently. this 1999 directive, which requires that the cages of laying hens be increased in size, requires us to act with intelligence and a possible view, because otherwise we will only be able to weaken european production and give extra opportunities, commercial opportunities, to third countries, where the space per bird is infinitely less than we currently have in the european union. it is a directive which requires a great deal of effort from european producers - in spain alone we can understand that the cost is some 600 million euros - but we must not forget, moreover, that it has an economic impact which extends to the egg industry and the food industry in general. i therefore ask for your support for the amendment by the ppe group to paragraph 2, which calls for a solution at least for responsible farms, for responsible industrialists, who are in the process of transforming their farms and who will have completed it by january 2012. we must support them in the conversion of these facilities and give them time to complete this process, thus avoiding irreparable damage to farms and preventing a situation of shortage on the community market from one day to the next, with consequent increases in consumer prices. it is a matter of respecting the directive, of giving the egg and egg product industry a chance, and also of respecting the right to animal welfare and the right of consumers to a reasonable price.
mr president, commissioner, as you will see, we in this house ensure that the rules are observed, even those which have not yet entered into force. if we extended this exercise to other sectors with deadlines, we would have to hold plenary sessions for 15 days. today we are talking about a sector which does not receive any aid from the cap and which is suffering from the increase in the price of feed. it is not easy for it to tackle additional costs, but it must do so to meet the high production standards we set for ourselves in the union. all indications are that by 1 january 2012 producers in many member states will not have been able to meet 100% of the deadline. it is estimated that 30% of production will be missing to meet the needs of the community market. the result: fresh eggs will be produced here - yes, they will be more expensive for the consumer - and those destined for processing will be bought abroad, thus closing off the part of european union production that went to that market. i hope that by then we will have more success in demanding reciprocity in our relations with third countries. the end: the standard will be mandatory from 2012. in the meantime, the commission can already enforce other existing rules, such as the electronic identification of sheep and goats, whose added value in terms of traceability and good veterinary conditions also has a direct impact on animal welfare.
madam president, as a co-author of amendment no 9, the technical precision is that where it says mee, it should read mee/fme. and happy holidays to all.
in writing. − the formation of a joint european identity and the growth in interest in the european union and its genesis are challenges with which the european institutions are faced in their bid to achieve broad cohesion and solidarity. there certainly are other, more radical and obvious ways to enhance the europeans’ faith in the european union and its leaders (the recent financial crisis has shown that there is still much to be achieved at the upper levels of the administration). however, knowledge of the history of our continent, familiarity with its multinational, yet common cultural heritage and stepping up the education of the younger generation in the ideas and people who led to the building of the european union may actually contribute to bridging the gap between the eu and its citizens.
in writing. − although it has chosen not to join the european economic area, switzerland has shown sustained interest in closer cooperation with the eu in the education, training and youth fields. initially, the legal bases for the eu education, training and youth programmes did not provide for participation by switzerland, but this changed in 2006 when parliament and council adopted decisions establishing the 2007-2013 ‘youth in action’ and lifelong learning programmes. in february 2008, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on swiss participation in the two programmes. an agreement was reached in august 2009 and the council has already adopted a decision approving its signature and provisional application from 2011. under article 218(6) of the tfeu, the council has to obtain the consent of the european parliament before the agreement can enter into force. the parliament and council decisions establishing the ‘youth in action’ and lifelong learning programmes, adopted in 2006, already provided in principle for swiss participation. the agreement negotiated with the swiss authorities by the commission is quite adequate: it extends the benefits of the programmes to switzerland, while safeguarding the financial and other interests of the eu. the rapporteur therefore recommends that the parliament approve the council draft decision.
in writing. - i have not supported this report because it does not deplore or criticise the double standard of the european union in respect of the observance and promotion of human rights, both in its member states and in third countries with which it has a privileged political and commercial relationship. it does not, therefore, reflect that eu governments have designed and implemented radically human rights-opposing policies on issues such as migration, with expulsions and mass detentions on grounds of race or security, allowing serious human rights violations, such as the unlawful detention of people and their transfer and torture in secret prisons. the eu itself has adopted directives that are contrary to human rights, such as the return directive, and has established or deepened privileged commercial and political relations with governments such as morocco, colombia and israel, which systematically violate human rights. while i appreciate that the human rights situation in the non-self-governing territories of western sahara is included for the first time, i do not support this report because of the omission of all the above and the negative impacts on human rights produced by the eu free trade agreements, as well as the unjustified and unwarranted criticism it makes of states such as cuba or venezuela.
in writing. − as usual, the final text has good and bad news. among the positive points: first of all, the amendment in two parts relating to magnitsky was adopted with a large majority (+318, -163 and 95 abstentions). s&d and alde amendments were all adopted (lgbt, death penalty/lethal injection). two gue amendments were adopted (equal access to healthcare/treatment and colombia). however, among the negative points, we have to mention that the two amendments tabled by the rapporteur (epp) relating to the eidhr and the need to dedicate more projects to democracy instead of hr were adopted.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common defence policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. it also hardly questions the role played by isaf and the serious human rights violations committed. i think it is positive that you take up the statements of general stanley mcchrystal in which he denies a significant presence of al qaeda sufficient to justify the deployment of troops in afghanistan. i also welcome the call for police training to be transferred as soon as possible from private contractors or the initial consideration that there is no clear end in sight to the war in afghanistan at the hands of the militarism and warmongering that has been practised so far. i have not given my support because my firm and consistent commitment to pacifist values leads me to criticise this report in a spirit and approach which are totally opposed to the necessary demilitarisation of eu foreign policy and international relations.
in writing. − the report adopted today is based on the extensive consultations that the rapporteur has been engaged in over the past six months on the situation in afghanistan and its relations with the international community, in an attempt to explain why so little has been achieved in afghanistan in spite of the huge amounts of money and effort expended over the past nine years. the gap between hope and reality in afghanistan has become more striking than ever, and a new eu strategy in that country should thus start from this premise. the report focuses exclusively on four areas where targeted action could bring about real changes: international aid, the implications of the recently launched peace process, the impact of police training, and the elimination of opium cultivation.
in writing. − in general terms the report was well perceived by all groups and the amendments tabled by the committee reflect the agreement reached with the council and commission for a first-reading agreement. our group is in favour of the agreement.
in writing. − among other things, this resolution calls on the european council to specify as soon as possible the treaty changes required in order to establish a permanent esm. parliament recalls that it has welcomed the establishment of a financial stability mechanism to address the risks of default by sovereign borrowers, partly using article 122 tfeu as the legal basis of this plan, and that it has noted the inherent democratic deficit and lack of accountability of the council’s rescue package decisions, which did not include consultation with the european parliament. it also demands that the european parliament be involved as co-legislator in forthcoming crisis rescue proposals and decisions and underlines that, from a rational, practical and democratic point of view, consideration of the economic governance legislative package cannot be dissociated from the decision taken by the european council to create a permanent crisis mechanism.
in writing. − huge consensus, today, on the vote on the situation in cote d'ivoire. the ep resolution voted with big majority says that the ep considers that the sole source of democratic legitimacy is universal suffrage, the results of which have been certified by the un, and calls therefore on mr gbagbo to step down and hand over power to alassane ouattara; urges all the political and armed forces in côte d’ivoire to respect the will of the people that was reflected by the results of the 28 november poll, as announced by the cei and certified by the unsg special representative; and deplores the violent clashes that preceded the proclamation of the results of the second round of presidential elections in côte d’ivoire and expresses its deepest solidarity with the victims and their families; regrets also the political obstruction and attempts to intimidate cei members, which ultimately delayed the announcement of provisional results, thus hampering the due course of the democratic electoral process;
in writing. − with the adoption of this resolution, the ep calls on the commission to maintain the requirement for a ban on battery cages by 1 january 2012, as laid down in the welfare of laying hens directive (1999/74/ec), and strongly to oppose any attempts by member states to secure a deferral of that deadline; it stresses that, as a matter of principle, postponement of the ban, or derogations from it, would seriously harm the welfare of laying hens, distort the market and penalise those producers who have already invested in non-cage or enriched-cage systems; and it expresses its deep concern at the substantial numbers of member states and egg producers behind schedule for meeting the 2012 deadline.
author. − mr president, the anti-homosexuality bill by david bahati in the ugandan parliament that provides for the punishment of homosexual acts by imprisonment of between seven years and life, as well as the death penalty, is simply unacceptable. let us remember that in africa legal homosexuality only exists in 13 countries, and is a criminal offence in 38 countries, whilst in mauritania, sudan and northern nigeria homosexuality is punished by death. this is why we need to reiterate once again the fact that sexual orientation is a matter falling within the remit of the individual’s rights of privacy. it is guaranteed by international human rights law, according to which equality and non-discrimination should be promoted, while freedom of expression should be guaranteed. this is why we need to denounce again any attempt to incite hatred and advocate violence towards any minority group, including on grounds of sex or sexual orientation. we need to remind the ugandan authorities of their obligations under international law and under the cotonou agreement. this is why i also ask the commission and the council, and the european external action service as well, to make full use of the toolkit to promote and protect the enjoyment of full human rights by lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in their dealings with uganda.
