mr president, i have to say to mrs ashton that our hopes of convincing the iranian regime of our concerns will, i am afraid, be in vain. in fact we are dealing with a dictatorship of yesterday and what is needed now is to concentrate on the opportunity for change. the regime is coming apart at the seams, and the iranian people have courageously shown, since last june, that they do not trust and do not support this deceitful and aggressive dictatorship. why should we continue to do so? we need seriously to support civil society and the democratic opposition, including the council of national resistance, which is the only organisation that has come out with a very clear democratic programme for a nuclear-free iran.
in writing. the second revision of the cotonou agreement, which entered into force in 2000, is underway and aims to introduce a number of changes in the framework of the agreement in order to achieve the objectives set out in the agreement: poverty eradication, sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp states into the world economy. it should be noted that since the last amendment to the cotonou agreement in 2005, many new developments have taken place in the global environment (e.g. financial crisis, climate change, rising food and energy prices, etc.), all of which also directly affect the african, caribbean and pacific countries. i fully share the rapporteur's view that all these developments in the global environment, if not adequately addressed in the process of amending the agreement, could jeopardise the achievement of the objectives of the cotonou agreement and the mdgs by 2015. it is known that the eu and acp countries have now set out in the cotonou agreement the areas and articles to be modified, which also partially take account of the above product. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, the european parliament and the national parliaments of the member states and the acp states are not involved in the relevant decision-making process, which has a significant impact on the transparency and credibility of the amendment of the agreement. i believe that the role of the european parliament, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and the parliaments of the eu member states and the acp countries in the treaty revision process must be strengthened in order to increase democratic legitimacy and accountability.
mr president, the spanish presidency will be judged on the basis of its institutional implementation of the lisbon treaty. prime minister, i wish you every success. to stimulate economic recovery and the creation of new jobs, your challenge is to bring about the completion of the eu’s internal market, including opening up services markets in areas that are still treated as exceptions. until this has been achieved, the success of any eu strategy will have a limited effect. i support your commitment to the creation of a common energy market, interconnecting energy grids all around europe. i wish you would use to this end parliament’s position on external energy security and solidarity that was adopted back in 2007 and is awaiting implementation. agenda 2020 means introducing information and communication technologies into everyday practice, making use of the best practices of member states that have already made progress in this field. i hope that your presidency can decide about starting a central agency for administration of it systems that europe clearly needs. what we also urgently need is to work out a reliable european cyber defence security strategy. i hope that the eu will play a more active role in stabilising the situation in the south caucasus, too, within the framework of the new eastern partnership strategy. last but not least, i suggest that you remain committed to the eu’s common position on cuba until real changes there can be confirmed. sadly, the refusal of the regime to allow our socialist colleague to enter cuba because he wanted to contact the opposition is not a sign of a real change.
i mean, brightly. mr president, the 2009 development report on turkey prepared by the european commission highlights the implementation of constitutional reform as one of the main challenges in the continuation of the democratisation process. the report notes that despite the clear popular support for the government and the large parliamentary majority, the progress made so far in implementing political and constitutional reform has not been sufficient, as the parties have not been able to find common ground. as in other democratic countries, the positions of the turkish parties reflect the will of their voters. while remembering that in a democratic society, political parties are responsible first and foremost to their constituents, the european union must pay attention to developments in turkey at grassroots level. we must be very careful to use only a didactic approach to guide turkey's democratization process. the successful implementation of the desired reforms requires public support, which requires a general increase in awareness and understanding of the nature and reasons for the reforms. top-down reforms may not produce the desired results if they are perceived as a threat to turkey's internal stability. pressure on the turkish government to rush through reforms that lack public support could, however unintentionally, lead to the outbreak of separatism or religious hatred. i hope that the council and the commission, together with the turkish government, will make efforts to implement measures which will involve the turkish population in the process of democratisation much more than before, in order to ensure a receptive ground for the implementation of the reforms required for accession, as set out in the copenhagen criteria.
author. − mr president, china has demonstrated impressive economic progress. however, part of this progress has been achieved by the use of methods that are in flagrant conflict with universally accepted human norms. hopes that events like the olympic games would motivate the chinese authorities to show more respect for democratic norms have proved vain. on the contrary, acts of repression have increased and we need to draw conclusions from this fact. today the european parliament voices concern over the fate of the prominent human rights activist and scholar, liu xiaobo, signatory of charter 08, which urges constitutional reform and the safeguarding of human rights. this charter has been bravely co-signed by more than 10 000 chinese citizens. last month lui xiaobo was sentenced to 11 years’ imprisonment. we ask today for his immediate and unconditional release. we express our solidarity with the peaceful actions of chinese citizens in favour of democratic reforms and the safeguarding of human rights, to which the chinese government has committed itself.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your support. first, my compliments to mr. tarabella, but now to the report. equality between women and men is not an end in itself, but a precondition for achieving our overall objectives. equality in everyday life is in everyone's interest, both men and women. but individual legislation alone will not solve this problem. the fact that we are still talking about it today, and have been for 40 years, is a testament to the fact that only a multifaceted integrated policy can bring us closer to our goal. i would like to stress the importance of implementation and monitoring. on the other hand, the perpetuation of outdated gender stereotypes preserves the essentially medieval roles of men and women in society and re-creates gender imbalances. we want to change the situation, but let's set an example here. tomorrow we will confirm a new european commission, with only one third of its members being women. we can't change that today. i call on the member states to propose two candidates for the next commission elections, one male and one female. and then we'll decide not on the basis of gender, but on the basis of their competence. the education statistics show that women have nothing to fear, and as a result, i'm sure we have nothing to be ashamed of. in closing, i would like to thank mr spidla and wish him all the success he has set himself.
mr president, the european community is more than 50 years old now. some people speak about it undergoing a mid-life crisis – feeling a bit tired, morally worn out, hesitant about further enlargement. against this background, mr barroso, you have an historic opportunity for statesmanship, real reforms and long-term vision. your second term coincides with the 60th anniversary of the schuman declaration. the only solution for the founding fathers of europe was not political bickering, but rising above national interests to establish supranational european policies based on an open and generous attitude, as you yourself mentioned. first of all, we expect real implementation of common european policies, especially the completion of the common energy market. the european commission has been the european parliament’s main ally and collaborator. we wish you and the whole college of commissioners well.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the college of commissioners expressing my trust in the president of the commission most of all. i do not consider the composition of the commission to be ideal. the high representative for foreign affairs continuously poses a problem for me, as she does not have the necessary experience in foreign affairs and she lacks a clear vision on how to lead the eu´s foreign and security policy. nevertheless, i find it crucial that the commission start working in its full mandate and i consider the wide support of the european parliament in this very important as in my opinion the commission and the european parliament are the closest allies in shaping the eu´s common policies.
in writing. the monetary situation in some euro area countries discussed today clearly illustrates the risks of moving away from the stability and growth pact. in view of the whole problem, we see the importance of reliable statistics. we must, without doubt, draw serious conclusions from the whole problem, and the way out can be for all countries, both within and outside the euro area, to acknowledge their problems honestly and take their own steps to overcome the difficulties, to which must of course be added the solidarity of the european union. at the same time, solving the problems described must not hamper the expansion of the euro area. clearly, if there are countries that have met the necessary criteria, then those countries must be in the euro area. time has shown that the single currency has been a guarantor of additional credibility in difficult times.
madam president, for the new commission – and i warmly welcome commissioner füle – now is the time to renew the eu’s commitment to enlargement by completing accession negotiations with croatia by the end of this year and starting negotiations with macedonia. the latter has made impressive progress despite manifold difficulties and should be encouraged to continue. i would like to invite both parties to solve the name issue in an open and generous european style, as advocated yesterday by president barroso. turkey, too, has made significant progress. if we look at ukraine, we can realise the difference that the very prospect of accession can make. turkey is welcome to membership on the basis of meeting the copenhagen criteria. with a new commissioner, there is no time to be lost in making turkey start pulling its troops out of cyprus and implementing the ankara protocol. i think this could be seen as a condition for proceeding with negotiations. as for myself, i could feel comfortable with turkish accession when it is as easy to build a christian church in ankara as it is to erect a mosque in brussels.
in writing. mr president, referring to my address of 20 january, i am interested to know what measures the turkish government has taken, as reported by the council and the commission, to involve the population in the process of democratisation and the reforms necessary for accession to the european union. the 2009 turkish progress report highlights shortcomings in meeting the copenhagen criteria, with particular emphasis on the political criteria covering the functioning of democracy and the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minority rights. the progress report notes that eur 567 million was allocated to turkey last year under the instrument for pre-enlargement assistance. the appropriations are largely directed towards the implementation of political and judicial reforms and the development of civil society. however, it is clarified that the use of this instrument is decentralised, meaning that the aid granted is managed by the turkish authorities, based on the commission's accreditation. in the interest of the speedy conclusion of the accession negotiations with turkey, which requires the elimination of the shortcomings identified so far, the council and the commission should have a precise overview of the specific actions of the turkish government to achieve this objective. the commission has identified on its website, for example, projects to end child labour, access to basic education, social inclusion for people with disabilities and a trust fund for women who are victims of domestic violence in turkey, but are these actions sufficient to generate the broad public support needed to bring the necessary reforms to a successful conclusion soon? based on the content of the progress report, what additional measures or projects are envisaged to overcome the obstacles identified in the problem areas as soon as possible?
in writing. as a prerequisite for the completion of the negotiation process with turkey, which started in 2005, turkey must meet all the copenhagen criteria and fully meet the eu's integration capacity. indeed, turkey has begun to implement the reforms expected of it, develop good neighbourly relations and gradually bring itself into line with the eu membership criteria. i support what has been done and i support turkey's accession to the eu, provided, of course, that the conditions for accession are met without a discount. today, however, i am concerned that the positive messages about the reforms that have been carried out have been dwindling lately and that there are still serious problems in turkey with the implementation of the legislation, especially with regard to women's rights, non-discrimination, freedom of expression and religion, zero tolerance for torture and the fight against corruption. i call on turkey to continue and intensify its efforts to fully meet the copenhagen criteria and consolidate turkish society in support of the necessary reforms, based on the equality of all people, irrespective of gender, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
i supported this resolution because i too believe that the current eu legal framework on trafficking in human beings has not been sufficiently effective and that the existing one has not been sufficiently implemented. we have to deal with this issue again and again. it is regrettable that the parliaments of 16 member states, including, i must say, that of my own country, have not yet understood the importance of the problem of trafficking in human beings and have not considered it necessary to ratify and implement the council convention of 2005 on action against trafficking in human beings. i hope that the resolution adopted today will send a signal and remind them of the importance of focusing on combating trafficking in human beings and avoiding victims.
mr. president, i have to go. i was among the 381 delegates - 10 times the number of members of the committee on women's rights - who supported the adoption of this bill. equal opportunities and gender balance in everyday life are in fact in the interest of all of us. equality between women and men is not an end in itself, but a precondition for achieving the general objectives of the european union, for realising its potential in a rational way. the fact that we have been talking about this for 40 years now is really a testament to the complexity and diversity of this issue, and how integrated policies are needed to tackle these issues. and there is little on paper about the actual adoption of the strategy, so i want to stress, as was stressed in the report, the importance of implementation and monitoring.
in writing. mr president, we recommend that members vote against this report in order to give the council and commission a chance to correct the situation and to rectify their position. we hope very much that they will take advantage of this opportunity! ceterum censeo: france has just decided to sell a mistral-class warship to russia, and we think that they will regret their decision.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. the recent presidential election in ukraine marks the end of a five-year period in which the color orange carried a political message. the recent presidential elections can be seen as another step towards consolidating democracy. it's been said that the revolution eats its own children. true, but ukraine will remain a state after this election. ukraine still has its multiparty system, and it's largely thanks to the orange revolution. the existence of freedom of speech and a free media can also be attributed to the events of five years ago, when the direction towards freedom and respect for human rights was taken. and it's not all that insignificant. in this context, ukraine's progress towards strengthening democracy and the rule of law, which will deepen economic integration and help to promote relations with the european union, should be recognised. i believe that, irrespective of the official announcement of the winner of the elections in the coming days, ukraine will continue on its current course by maintaining support for the process of european union integration and by making the governance of the state more efficient and the political system more balanced and will continue constitutional reform. the internal political stability of ukraine and its focus on internal reforms are a prerequisite for the further development of relations between the european union and ukraine. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. we must continue the negotiations on the association agreement between ukraine and the european union. it's been slowing down lately, so it needs to be upgraded and redecorated. energy and environmental cooperation also needs more concrete content. the accession to the world trade organisation, which is also a key precondition for the creation of a deep free trade area between us and ukraine, cannot be overlooked. of course there are deficits, there was talk of corruption, there are certain vested interests and a policy of nepotism. we hope that ukraine will turn these deficits... (the chairman interrupted the speaker.)
in writing. – ukraine continues to be crucial for the stability and democratic development of europe. although the orange revolution to which the european parliament so effectively contributed has disappointed most expectations, it is to be hoped that the legacy of mr yushchenko’s presidency – free and fair elections, people who have overcome fear when voicing their opinions and a basically independent media – will endure. it is true that a big country like ukraine that has been deprived of independence for a long time and has suffered a real genocide – the holodomor – will need some time to better define its european identity and future strategic goals. but we cannot look away from the responsibility of european union policies toward ukraine since 2004. the eu has not been eager to offer ukraine the prospect of eu membership. the eu’s support of ukraine has proved to be mostly ambiguous and not convincing to the ukrainians as it has often been dominated by a fear of irritating russia. we need to realise that the main key to a genuinely democratic and good neighbourly russia is an independent and europe-integrated ukraine. this will remain the eu’s responsibility. now we need to make maximum use of the eastern partnership.
mr. president, i have to go. the economic crisis has brought with it a social crisis. that is the only way to describe a situation where unemployment has increased three, four or five times compared to the pre-crisis period. last year, in this very hall, we approved the plan for the recovery of the european economy, which also included the implementation and financing of the progress programme. of course, the situation is complicated. reducing unemployment is not feasible in a single leaf. i supported the commission's complementary measure in the form of a microcredit fund. it is unacceptable, however, to take the path of least resistance and to take money from the progress instrument for the purpose of the credit facility. i could not support this approach and therefore voted in favour of the compromise proposed in mrs gönczi's report.
author. − mr president, members of parliament have been extremely worried about the recent clampdown on the freedom of the press by the venezuelan regime. as you know, media freedom is one of the foundations of a democratic society. it certainly includes the right to receive information from multiple pluralistic sources. recently there have been attacks on media freedom by president hugo chávez. in august last year he ordered the closure of 34 radio stations through a refusal to renew their licences. this january president chávez ordered off the air rctv international and five other cable and satellite tv channels who failed to broadcast his official speech. furthermore he has described using twitter and the internet to pass on anti-government information as terrorist activities. we protest against the death of two venezuelan students who protested against this shutting-down of the free media… (the president cut off the speaker.)
the commission and the presidency are honoured to be here. we, the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, want the european union to be visible at the forthcoming 13th session of the un human rights council. as a co-author of this resolution, i would like to draw particular attention to paragraphs 9 and 13 of the resolution, which deal with iran. we, the liberal democrats of europe, find it unacceptable that the un human rights council has been unable - not to say unwilling - to respond with the necessary speed to the human rights crises in afghanistan, guinea-conakry, iran, yemen and iraq. the human rights council, an organisation that brings together all the nations of the world, has the duty to monitor the human rights situation in the territory of all the member states on an ongoing basis and to react promptly to any deterioration in the situation. the current permissive behaviour is a clear sign of weakness in the organisation and its inability to adequately fulfil its commitments. the weakness of the organisation may also be reflected in the fact that iran's candidacy for the un human rights council elections in may 2010 is quite tentative. the very idea is absurd, given the theocratic regime's futile attempts to suppress the nationwide unrest by means of a repressive apparatus. the very possibility of its functioning is an affront to the entire international community. we respect the choice of the iranian people and our criticism is aimed at achieving a better future for the iranian people. we call on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the vice-president of the commission to take a firm stand on this issue and to put strong pressure on the un.
mr president, one parliamentary priority is also to address an alarming situation where the human rights council’s activities have resulted in extreme politicisation. it is therefore of utmost importance that the eu member delegations should stand up for the establishment of criteria for becoming a member of the human rights council. that applies especially to minimum requirements of cooperation with special procedures, and resisting the use of ‘no action’ motions which have prevented the adoption of resolutions on certain states who are keen to avoid criticisms of their human rights policies. i would like to refer to two other parliamentary priorities. firstly, belarus. contrary to expectations, the human rights situation has not improved, but is worsening. i would like today to stress mr milinkevich’s message. the eu has now got real leverage to put pressure on lukashenko’s regime to make him bring about genuine improvement as a condition for further eu economic aid and cooperation. secondly, i would like to call for support for last week’s public address by the 18 russian human rights activists, including sakharov prize winner kovalev, who are extremely worried about a further clampdown on independent satellite information in the russian language, which the kremlin has achieved through applying pressure. it is really damaging to the values of the eu to praise human rights advocates like kovalev, and, at the same time, to surrender to mr putin’s claims that broadcasting alternative information in the russian language by european satellites is something hostile.
in writing. – this is a period for critical decisions in the eu and belarus relationship. the eastern partnership programme has offered opportunities for the regime in belarus to relax its rigid control of society and open the way for democratic reforms. however, this process needs to be reciprocal. the eu’s economic assistance and opening of the cooperation projects can result in reliable progress only if each goodwill step by the eu is accompanied by genuine measures toward the re-establishment of an open democratic society in belarus. the assessment of the situation by sakharov prize winner milinkevich is pessimistic. as he told us, the human rights situation has not improved. in fact, it has worsened. at the same time, bearing in mind that the lukashenko regime depends more than ever on western technology, money and markets, the eu has an efficient leverage over the regime’s further behaviour. but first we need to understand that the belarus dictator is probing to see how serious his eu partners really are about the importance of democratic reforms. therefore it is so crucial to send a clear message that the eu’s priority is real changes in the human rights situation.
in writing. − i supported amendment 2, tabled on behalf of the ecr group, to the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine, which voices concern that the nord stream pipeline project undermines the principle of solidarity in the eu’s energy security and will be constructed to circumvent ukraine. even if not directly relevant to the current situation in ukraine, i fully share the view that the nord stream project has been designed by the russian government as primarily a political project with a goal to divide europe and isolate not only ukraine but also some new member states. this amendment is a reminder that the debate on nord stream has not ended but is to be continued. the eu, which is heading toward a common energy market with the implementation of an energy solidarity principle, cannot rely on a long-term relationship with a politically orientated state-owned monopoly that has already failed economically and is defying the basic eu principles of open competition, transparency and separation of production, transportation and distribution.
in writing. - the president! i supported the european parliament's resolution on the situation in ukraine. among other things, i think we should take very seriously the decision of the newly elected president yanukovych to make his first foreign visit to brussels. this is a clear sign that ukraine is moving forward with its integration into the european union. i think it is important that the european union should support ukraine in the current situation by concluding an association agreement and guaranteeing visa-free travel, assuming that ukraine fulfils its own obligations. the eu's doors must remain open to ukraine.
mr president, as the president of parliament kindly reminded us, on 11 march lithuania and estonia mark 20 years since the passing of two fundamental legal acts. as the lithuanian supreme council adopted a declaration of independence, in tallinn the first session of the congress of estonia passed a declaration on restoring the legal state power in that still soviet-occupied state. the congress of estonia presented a unique democratic alternative to the existing soviet institutions. elected by 90% of newly registered estonian citizens, it united the absolute majority of estonians, represented by almost 30 political parties and movements, in a quest to restore real independence and a nation state. this quest was successful largely also thanks to the solidarity of europe.
in writing. the scope of eu consumer protection policy has expanded over the years to reflect changes in people's needs and expectations. with almost 500 million consumers, the eu's internal market plays a key role in achieving the lisbon agenda's goals of growth, jobs and competitiveness, with consumer spending accounting for half of the eu's wealth. the cross-border dimension of consumer markets in the eu has increased significantly, mainly due to the rapid development of e-commerce, which makes it all the more important to have a high level of consumer protection. unfortunately, however, the implementation and enforcement of eu consumer protection rules is not uniformly ensured in all member states today. i believe that strengthened market surveillance and enforcement mechanisms and their effective and widespread implementation are essential to enhance consumer confidence. on this basis, i support the rapporteur's proposal that the european commission should closely monitor the transposition and implementation of eu consumer law in the member states and give them every assistance in doing so. i believe that the european commission should also consider the idea of creating a european consumer protection agency, which could act as a coordinating central authority, dealing specifically with the resolution of cross-border cases, to support and complement the consumer protection authorities of the member states concerned in the implementation and enforcement of eu consumer protection rules. i believe that eu consumer protection rules are of little use if they are not properly transposed, implemented and enforced at national level.
the scope of the european union's consumer protection policy has expanded considerably over the years, reflecting changes in people's needs and expectations. the cross-border dimension of consumer markets in the european union has increased significantly, mainly due to the rapid development of e-commerce, which makes consumer protection and the existence of a high level of consumer protection all the more important. i believe that strengthened market surveillance and enforcement mechanisms and their effective and widespread implementation are essential to increase consumer confidence. that is why i supported the adoption of the report and its amendments.
the schengen area is about freedom of movement. it is controversial that many long-stay visa holders have much less freedom of movement in the schengen area than short-stay visa holders. the community visa regime is due to enter into force in a month's time, but as the analysis of member states' actions in the field of long-term visas and residence permits so far has shown, there are different interpretations and applications, which lead to violations of citizens' fundamental rights. the commission's proposals will eliminate the practical problems and delays in the issuing of residence permits which, as i said, have been observed in many member states. the matter is of great urgency, the visa codes should be in effect immediately, and i supported the report.
an effectively functioning internal market is essential to create a stable and innovative economic environment. however, the internal market cannot function properly without the transposition by all its member states of the community rules affecting its functioning. however, transposition can be more successful if the national parliaments are involved in the process of transposition. their involvement is also important for parliamentary oversight. as these positions were also reflected in the report, i supported the adoption of the report with both hands.
in writing. − today's decision by the european parliament to support the launch of the european globalisation adjustment fund with three reports, two on lithuania and one on germany, is very welcome and demonstrates in concrete terms that the european union can directly alleviate the situation of displaced people and help them to retrain. in estonia, over 30 000 people have lost their jobs in the construction sector in the last year and a half, and i would urge the estonian government and the ministry of social affairs to be more courageous in seeking help from the european union funds that are earmarked for such holidays. it is worth noting that although germany and lithuania received support today, according to eurostat, the highest unemployment rates are in spain, latvia and estonia, which could also consider how the european union could help them directly.
mr president, may i congratulate colleagues albertini and danjean on their comprehensive and creative reports on foreign and security policy. the eu is bound to be a global player, as you said, high representative, but with seven per cent of the world’s population and one fifth of gdp, it will be possible only on the basis of strengthened transatlantic cooperation based on common values. first of all the eu should show a determined will to develop coherent strategies in five crucial areas: common strategies for china, russia, peace in the middle east, afghanistan, and energy security. it is still a major handicap for our credibility and efficiency in the world that often we have not been able to form a unified position in these areas. the principal challenge for you will be to carry into practice your excellent statement about building a single political strategy and taking collective responsibility. i welcomed paragraph 10 in colleague danjean’s report which urges the council and the commission to analyse cyber threats and to coordinate an efficient response to such challenges based on the best practices. cyber warfare is not a challenge of the future: it has become an everyday practice. therefore it is an immediate task for the eu to work out a european cyber security strategy. finally, on the european external action service: i think the forming of the eeas should be based on a fair geographical balance and equal opportunities for representatives of all member states, new and old, with application of the quota system. only this will guarantee the efficiency and transparency and finally the credibility of the new diplomatic service. good luck to you, high representative, and thank you.
in writing. mr president, several speakers have raised the problem of the european external action service, which was set up after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i consider it extremely important that the geographical balance principle be respected in the formation of the external action service and that, like other european union services, positive discrimination be applied to the representatives of the new member states, which is reflected in the transitional period and allows for an accelerated career. the new member states' representatives lack the necessary decades of experience in the european union institutions, which is a prerequisite for holding senior posts. it would be unfair if all the key posts were filled by officials from the old member states and officials from the new member states had to wait for years to take their place. this would be a clear waste of resources, as representatives from malta, for example, may have a much better level of expertise in relations with north african countries, cyprus with the middle east, bulgaria with turkey, poland with belarus and ukraine, the baltic states with russia and so on. i hope that the european union will not make the mistake of allowing only the old member states to shape the external service to be created, but will find an optimal solution that satisfies all member states.
in writing. - mr president, as co-author of the european parliament resolution on the situation of civil society and national minorities in belarus, i voted in favour of that resolution. although the lukashenka regime has released political prisoners and made some concessions in recent years, the european union cannot turn a blind eye to the recent human rights violations by polish union members in belarus. the benefits of the eu's eastern partnership can only be extended to belarusian citizens if the belarusian leadership guarantees human rights, civil liberties and democratic reforms for belarusians. the regime's concessions to date remain insufficient, and the arrest of angelika boris, the head of the belarusian polish union, and the refusal to register the movement and the freezing of its assets are another blow to relations with the european union. i believe that, in the light of the continuing violations of human rights and the rule of law, the european union has no choice but to consider re-imposing sanctions on the belarusian leadership.
president, the honourable high representative! in addition to the considerable environmental changes, we must also take into account the fact that the accelerated melting of the arctic ocean has opened up the possibility of starting a race for new geothermal resources. however, this may pose a potential security threat to the european union's relations with third countries. i would like to draw attention to the fact that russia's behaviour is not dictated by fishing, tourism or mineral deposits, but by the world's last untapped gas and oil reserves. despite the european commission's intention to deepen cooperation with its neighbours in the emerging territories as part of its arctic strategy, russia has not shown a willingness to consider our wishes since the turn of the millennium. last year, russia's national security strategy, which came into force, sent a menacing message to the west that russia was prepared to use military force if necessary to acquire new resources in the arctic. i believe we should have a policy of focus on russia that would avoid a race to the bottom.
dear vice president and high representative! thank you for having, at the beginning of your busy mandate, nevertheless immediately set to work on the most important issue. the most important thing to me is the arctic. you made a very good point about the fact that the arctic is not antarctica and that copying the antarctic treaty in the arctic ocean would be unrealistic. i think that if anyone in the world should represent idealism, it is the european commission. and why should the european commission not, however, make an idealistic proposal to our partners that we should put a moratorium on the north sea for a few decades before embarking on a gold rush, that we should not embark on a process which also involves an arms race and other dangers. a few words also on the rights of indigenous peoples in the arctic. and i think that in the human rights dialogue between the european union and russia, there should also be a question of whether the indigenous peoples of the arctic living in the russian federation can be sufficiently involved in the work of the arctic council or not. yes, antarctica is not the arctic, but some of the policies that helped bring about a solution in the southern hemisphere during the cold war should not be dismissed in the regulation of the northern hemisphere simply because the committee lacks idealism. i come from the land from which the antarctic explorer bellingshausen set out. he went and found it because he was an idealist. i wish you the same idealism in your work.
in writing. – the premature death of orlando zapata tamayo, after seven years of illegal imprisonment against which he was left with only one means of protest, must be seen as the responsibility of the repressive cuban regime. it is our responsibility to keep in mind the words of orlando zapata’s mother: ‘you should not have to go through what my son had to experience’. during the last four years of raúl castro’s leadership, expectations that the communist dictatorship in cuba could become more human have clearly been disappointed. people there continue to risk their lives when voicing their opinion. there are still about 200 political prisoners in cuba. both the usa and the eu member states have condemned the death of mr zapata, yet this protest has not been strong or timely enough. in cases like this, one cannot, like the spanish presidency, waste any time in reacting. the moral of zapata’s case is that one cannot ignore the harsh realities of the cuban dictatorship. our policy towards cuba must remain conditional on genuine changes there. the eu has to take the side of the cuban people rather than cherish hopes that zapata’s murderers can be trusted.
mr president, this young man has been kept in captivity for almost 1 400 days with absolute disrespect for any international norms and no access to him even by the red cross. i think this case should be seen and solved exclusively as a human tragedy. i am encouraged by the wide support in the european parliament for this debate and by the warm reception our colleagues expressed yesterday to shalit’s father. shalit’s case should not become a bargaining chip. instead it will be in the interests of hamas if they want to gain legitimacy in the peace process. to conclude, the best proof for their credibility would be to release gilad shalit unconditionally and to abstain from further kidnappings.
in writing. – i wish to express my regret in view of the imprisonment of gilad shalit. his abduction alongside the detention of the rest of the prisoners in the area is unacceptable. this situation needs to be amended as soon as possible! i believe that release of shalit would contribute to the middle east peace process in general. ceterum censeo : la france vient de décider de vendre un navire de guerre de classe mistral à la russie, nous pensons qu'elle regrettera fortement son geste.
in writing. – i would like to speak about the european digital agenda. the commission’s figures show that barriers to the digital single market exist: only 7% of online transactions are cross-border. although internet and relevant infrastructure objectives serve as solid prerequisites for further development, improving the infrastructure must be complemented by the creation of a pan-european regulatory framework, utilisation of services and enhancement of ict skills. by 2020 a single and secure european e-services area should be created. it would provide eu citizens with easy and safe access to all digital services, both public and commercial. member states should develop national plans for the digital switchover of public services. particular focus should be on encouraging the participation of lower socioeconomic groups, as they are the most likely to be excluded from the digital society. cross-border e-authentication and digital signatures should be characterised by legal and technical interoperability so that cross border e-authentication could be used by all service providers and consumers across europe. the comprehensive approach to the digital single market should include reducing the remaining fragmentation in financial services, logistics, consumer protection and intellectual property. a 100% target should be set for citizens to have both access to, and the ability to use, e-services.
madam president, tibet and its cultural heritage is our common treasure. it is in our common interests that the tibetan identity, religion and language be preserved and developed under the best possible conditions. sadly, this is not the case. under the cover of industrial development, there is cultural genocide taking place and tibetans are on the verge of becoming a minority in their homeland. this can be prevented only by granting them a genuine autonomous status. the eu can be influential in contributing to the start of an unprejudiced and constructive dialogue that would respect both sides. i would note, commissioner, your statement that tibet is our legitimate concern. as a result of such a dialogue, and through opening up tibet to foreign media and un human rights experts, the chinese government has everything to gain, not only domestically but, most of all, internationally. china can become truly great only by showing respect towards its minorities. as a goodwill gesture, the dalai lama, whose authority is recognised worldwide, should be allowed to visit his homeland. the eu should take full advantage of the lisbon treaty in showing active solidarity – through concrete acts – with the fate of a nation whose existence is under threat and whose natural right to autonomy and safeguarding its culture is being harshly repressed. i support the idea that baroness ashton should meet with the dalai lama and that the eu should provide for a special representative for tibet after all.
in writing. while some eu member states are already experiencing a worsening of the economic and financial crisis, the developing countries are still in the throes of the crisis, with its relentless consequences. economic development is undoubtedly the key to solving the current global crisis. but in our efforts to market our economies, we should not forget that the continuation of the crisis in the developing world is also a very significant drag on global growth and, therefore, on our own development. i believe that the member states of the european union must continue to provide aid to developing countries to reduce poverty and exclusion by constantly adapting it to new circumstances and conditions. given the severe impact of the global crisis on developing countries in particular, i support the call for all eu member states to increase their collective development aid to 0.7% of their gross national income by 2015, despite the crisis. action to promote development and to overcome the crisis must be taken today, in 2010! i therefore support the call for the eu and non-eu high-income countries to reform international development cooperation in the current context. we cannot allow our non-intervention to negate all the achievements of poverty and exclusion, and in the near future, instead of 100 million people living in extreme poverty, there will soon be 1 billion people in that situation.
in writing. – we should proceed from one central fact – during the most severe economic crisis that europe has known, the euro has been an anchor of stability and credibility. without the functioning eurozone, overcoming the crisis would have been much slower and uneven. this applies also for those member states which have not yet joined the eurozone. now it is especially important to realise that the european common currency is a common value for which every member of the eurozone bears individual responsibility. there is a general agreement that the economic crisis was a logical outcome of a widespread crisis of values. those who have joined the eurozone are expected to bear higher responsibility for balancing their expenses and incomes. it does not make sense to take the role of supposed victims of financial speculation or economic mafias. almost all european economies have sinned against the principles of sound and balanced fiscal policy. the lesson has to be learnt – we need much tougher supervision and better coordination of financial policies with the establishment of a european monetary fund. but first of all, each and every member of the eurozone must slow down in living at the expense of tomorrow.
in writing. mr president, the greek debt crisis has raised questions about our ability to maintain stability in the euro area. i am convinced that the strength of the single currency is guaranteed by the observance of the agreed rules in all member states without exception. it is reported that greece is being joined by other european union member states that may face serious financial difficulties. in addition to the surge in public debt, several member states have reached dangerous levels of government spending, which the european central bank was concerned about a few years ago. the euro is the anchor to which the economies of the member states are tied. any action by member states which weakens the euro is unacceptable. i think it is important that all countries follow the rules that have been set for the euro area. i also support a collective approach to finding solutions, including the development of an aid package for greece and the tightening of the single currency regulations and the implementation of stricter supervision. the idea of a possible european monetary fund, raised by the greek crisis, is a precautionary approach to potential problems, but it is important not to forget the external factors of the globalised investment market, which inevitably have an impact on the euro area. it is therefore clear that, at transnational level, greater attention will have to be paid in future to the creation of legislation to protect the euro against the effects of dangerous factors inside and outside the european union.
in writing. the president, the rapporteur and colleagues. europe accounts for 41% of the world fleet, but unfortunately many third countries provide more support to their owners and shipowners than the eu member states, or even impose weaker requirements on ship safety and environmental friendliness. europe must ensure the best working conditions for its seafarers, the safety of its ships and the improvement of the marine environment. this is why efforts should be made, in other words, member states should be encouraged to support their national maritime sector and ensure that ships registered in their country comply with the conventions and international requirements they have ratified. although maritime transport is more environmentally friendly than road or air transport, it has the potential to reduce pollution even further. in my amendment, i would like to see port operations in the future become even more efficient and less polluting, which will certainly be helped by paperless operations and the wider use of intelligent transport systems. however, the main objective of intelligent transport systems is not to reduce pollution but to increase efficiency and ensure better competition. maritime safety is very important: we must do everything to ensure the safety of our seafarers, passengers, ships and cargo, but we cannot approach this problem blindly, with weapons in hand. we need to look at the bigger picture and find solutions to the problems in this region. in conclusion, i must say that maritime transport is a very important part of the economy and of the daily lives of many europeans. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of this sector, while respecting the environment and the human factor.
in writing. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, i welcome the deployment of the european union special representative to kyrgyzstan. we need to know what the plans of the provisional government are. the end of violence and the development of the rule of law and democracy in kyrgyzstan must be ensured. given the restrictions on free press, the violence against journalists, the arrests of opposition leaders, corruption, the departure from democratic values and the poor economic situation of the country, which the forces that came to power in the coup d'état in kyrgyzstan have accused president bakiyev of, our expectation should be to see kyrgyzstan soon become a democratic state governed by the rule of law. however, such hope is justified only if we are prepared to commit resources to the implementation of this plan, as the economy of kyrgyzstan, in difficulty, cannot provide the necessary support for the implementation of long-awaited social, economic and political reforms. with the aim of sustainable development in the central asian region, we must provide the interim government with expertise to implement reforms, as we have done in kosovo, macedonia and elsewhere, in addition to economic assistance. it is worth noting here that estonia has provided such aid to both ukraine and georgia, so our experience in dealing with the peoples of the former soviet union should not be underestimated. in the event of a regime change, we must not miss any opportunity to help kyrgyzstan move towards democratic values. therefore, it would be irresponsible for us to leave kyrgyzstan without support and to make it dependent on one of its large neighbours.
in writing. – generally we are pleased to see the current state of affairs regarding the budget of the european union. however, there is still room for improvement. significant improvement, i would say. ceterum censeo, france has decided to sell a mistral class warship to russia; we believe that she will sincerely regret that action.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft council regulation on administrative cooperation and combating tax fraud in the field of vat, as this legislation will allow member states to fight crossborder tax fraud more effectively and jointly. it is tax fraud that has serious consequences for the budgets of the member states, violates the principle of fiscal equality and distorts competition. although the fight against tax fraud is largely a competence of the member states, i believe that in today's globalised world, the fight against tax fraud must also be a priority for the eu!
in writing. − i voted in favour of a directive amending the rules on invoicing as a liberal, because i consider that the way in which this chapter was incorporated into the vat directive has not fully fulfilled its objective of simplifying, modernising and harmonising the invoicing of vat. i believe that the new rules will reduce the burden of red tape on businesses and ensure that the same rules for the drawing up and presentation of invoices will apply in all member states. in the context of an open market and the movement of services, it would be unreasonable to do otherwise.
in writing. − the future of the european maritime sector plays a significant role in the european union, in economic, social and environmental terms. today's vote sets out the european maritime policy strategy for 2018, which will directly affect the 41% of the fleet that belongs to europe and indirectly the entire world's maritime industry. the liberal group supported this report as it largely meets our expectations and our amendments were also supported. we believe that the keywords of efficiency, environmental friendliness and a level playing field will have to be the guiding principles in the maritime sector in the future. it is therefore important that the report adopted today calls on all member states to ratify the conventions of the international maritime organisation in order to ensure the best possible conditions for seafarers, ship owners and the environment. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation and openness in the handling of the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that the use of cyanide in mining should be banned in europe. cyanide is a highly toxic chemical used in gold mining. it poses a serious threat to the environment and human health. the severe accidents in the past have proven that cyanide contamination can have an irreversible impact both on the environment and on human health. in this regard i strongly support the cause of banning this type of mining in the shortest possible term to ensure that no one, today or in the future, has to be exposed to the devastating impact of cyanide in mining.
in writing. – we would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent job. however, we are disappointed with the french decision to alter the original will of the european electorate by appointing new members of the european parliament from the national assembly. ceterum censeo – france has decided to sell a mistral-class warship to russia; we believe that it will sincerely regret its action.
in writing. – the most important topic in the discussion about the future of the europe 2020 strategy is the challenge of need and sustainability. clearly the lisbon strategy has not delivered and now we have to be realistic if the future europe 2020 would be able to deliver. in order to make europe 2020 a success story it is crucial that member states, eu institutions and all actors in the society work on this together. a top-down and bottom-up approach have to meet each other. realistic benchmarks have to be set to increase employment, especially youth employability. education systems in europe need to become more oriented towards research and innovation; higher investment in education is unavoidable. better coherence needs to be created between the labour market and education. the concept of life-long and life-wide learning are to be tackled seriously. i strongly advocate better vocational education systems and support the need to work much closer with the private sector on this. in the increasingly competitive world, europe needs to be ambitious and committed on all levels. without this we will again have a strategy that resembles more the soviet union’s five-year plans. a convincing european strategy to create a stronger europe should take leadership on global level.
in writing. mr president, it is extremely welcome that the commission has outlined a forward-looking 'europe 2020 - a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth', because for too long many european countries have followed the maxim 'come after us or we'll blow up' in the organisation of their economies and finances. despite the commission's commendable work in developing the strategy, i am struck by its naivety. the commission's communication on this subject gives us a picture of a green, equal and social market economy in europe, without specifying the resources that will be used to achieve this. it was the customary practice of the soviet union to allow the arrival of communism at certain intervals of ten years, without regard to actual reality. i would hope that, after the failure of the declarative lisbon strategy, the commission has not wanted to come up with yet another empty utopia to deceive the citizens of europe. today we do not need dreams, but concrete actions to save the european economy from extinction. it is high time to start serious structural reforms in europe, especially in the area of social policy, because the current model of social welfare society is no longer sustainable.
in writing. - cancer is a very costly disease for society, with a constantly increasing cost of diagnosis and treatment, often resulting in long-term disability, disability and premature death. despite all the advances in medicine, the prevalence of cancer is still very high in the world today. for example, one in three europeans will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime and one in four will die from the disease. it is the member states and in particular their national cancer prevention strategies that have an important role to play in preventing the spread of cancer. as the results set out in the strategy can only be achieved through long-term and consistent action in the fight against cancer, i call on all member states not to reduce the financial resources allocated to the fight against cancer and to both primary and secondary prevention needs in the current economic crisis. today's savings become tomorrow's expenses. preventive measures play a major role in the fight against cancer, as one third of cancers can be prevented by preventive measures. i also consider raising awareness of gender-specific cancers to be an important part of preventive action, and it is necessary to increase both the level of prevention and the promotion of screening research for these diseases. in conclusion, i would like to welcome the commission's proposal to launch the european partnership for action against cancer for the period 2009-2013 to support member states' action against cancer. only by our united efforts can we win the fight against such an enemy as cancer.
following parliament's repeated requests, the commission has proposed a regulation on the financing of security fees. i supported the adoption of this legislation because it is important for all passengers that certain principles of security charges be followed in a transparent manner. the consumer must be sure that the proceeds from the security charges are used exclusively to cover the security costs.
i voted in favour of amending this legislation because it contributes to the objectives agreed in the european economic recovery plan adopted in 2008. i believe that simplifying funding will accelerate co-financed investments in the member states and regions and increase the impact of measures on the economy as a whole, but in particular on medium-sized enterprises and employment. the simplification and clarification of the cohesion policy rules, which is based on practical needs, will certainly have a positive impact on the speed of implementation of the plan and on adaptation to new challenges.
in writing. - in legal and practical terms, our decision amends the treaty of lisbon, which provides for the convening of the convention, but since it is a limited and temporary amendment, i supported, together with 479 colleagues, the transitional solution, namely the conferral of decision-making powers on the intergovernmental conference instead of the convening of the convention, on the basis of the principle of proportionality.
in writing. - the events that began in kyrgyzstan a month ago, at the beginning of april, have left a serious mark on the country's domestic situation and on its international relations. russia has thereby increased its influence in kyrgyzstan both militarily and economically, which was to be expected given the previous economic relations between the two countries. russia has also committed to provide economic assistance both through direct financial support and through the sale of gas and oil products at preferential prices. today's report draws a lot of attention to the need for the european union and the un to help ensure that a democratic order prevails in this country and that human rights violations are stopped. it is right that the aim is to reduce corruption both in the public sector and in the judiciary, which is why public sector reform and the independence of the judiciary are necessary. however, all this is directly related to the economic situation of the country and therefore cooperation between the eu, the un and russia is necessary, otherwise the interests of kyrgyzstan will not be put first and each "great power" will try to use the situation in its own interests. i therefore support this resolution, which calls on all parties to cooperate in order to ensure respect for human rights, the development of democracy, and the reform of the public sector and the independence of the judiciary. although i believe it will take time for this country to reach the level of democracy we want, because to do that, the distribution of office among relatives must be replaced by public competitions.
the importance of mrs ţicău's report is one of the most important instruments of energy and climate policy that we have adopted in recent years. my congratulations to all those involved in this report, and in particular to the rapporteur, mrs ticău. i would not repeat the above, but i would focus on two moments. first, the directive offers a wide range of new business opportunities for businesses. in addition to new technologies for improving the energy efficiency of buildings, there will be an increasing demand for environmentally friendly building materials, reducing the cost of materials and waste in the construction sector, recycling construction waste and developing smart homes. european companies, in cooperation with the european union and the member states, should therefore invest today in technologies that reduce the significant environmental impact of buildings, as buildings today consume around 40% of the eu's energy, emit 38% of the eu's co2 emissions and, in addition, the construction sector is the most resource-intensive sector of the eu economy. secondly, the directive only partially answers the question of who pays for all this. for example, the directive contains a proposal that the european commission should direct more of the european union's structural funds towards financing energy efficiency in buildings. i consider it extremely important that the current financial perspective should not be overlooked and that means should be found to finance more energy efficiency in buildings. energy conservation is the cheapest way to produce energy, so let's use it.
madam president, i wish to thank everyone who has been working very hard on the seemingly never-ending story of sis ii: mr coelho and those in the field. the issue of recurring delays and cost overruns is very worrying and, if not this, what else could be more telling about mr barroso’s management skills in his first commission? i believe that we should take these lessons which can be learnt here today and project them into the creation of a new it agency, which could be situated in tallinn. this would be a win-win situation: while the french colleagues could keep the servers in strasbourg, the new programming work would be done in tallinn by competent specialists with low management costs, thus avoiding a monopoly and embracing the idea of eu integration, and also giving a guarantee of data protection. finally i would like to express my confidence in commissioner malmström’s ability to resolve these complicated issues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the new youth strategy, as i believe that the future of europe is the young people today. we need to take action now to ensure that young people are best prepared for their life ahead and best equipped to face the challenges. i urge the member states to take the new youth strategy seriously and implement the proposed measures vigorously. the youth strategy needs to feed into the personal and professional development of each young person in europe by providing them with the means to learn at home and abroad, through formal, non-formal and informal learning. the strategy should also serve to empower young people and increase their participation in society. furthermore, no policy can truly function without cross-sectoral implementation. all relevant actors across sectors need to work together to make the strategy a success. although youth policy in europe is carried out at national level, we need to learn from each other and set examples. making the national reports public is a crucial step in getting closer to our young citizens, but also in learning from each other through best practices and from possible challenges.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner rehn for his kind words and confidence in the efforts of estonia joining the eurozone, and i can assure you that, with the present financial burden at 7.5% of gdp, estonia will not contribute to the increase of the average eu debt level. i trust also that eurozone colleagues will be able to accept estonia as a positive example; that would send an encouraging signal also to latvia and lithuania convincing their people that it makes sense to make efforts and that all the applicants will be treated according to their merits. joining the eurozone at this moment is not just a privilege. it means taking solidarity commitments and making our contribution to the consolidation pact from the beginning, but i am convinced that this is a right decision; we shall see the eu not only as an opportunity to receive, but first and foremost as a chance to contribute to advance our common cause.
in writing. mr president, in drawing up the europe 2020 strategy, the commission has succeeded in articulating many of our aspirations, but seems to have forgotten today's reality. several member states, including estonia, have made large cuts in the interests of balancing the national budget. by meeting the maastricht criteria for the euro area, estonia has been able to stabilise its budget. at the same time, the consequences of the irresponsible fiscal policies of several member states will probably continue to plague the european union for years to come. in the light of the current difficult economic situation, it is unclear how the commission intends to implement the strategy and the major projects it covers. we could learn from our mistakes so that, unlike the failed lisbon strategy, we have a clear understanding of how we are achieving the objectives we have set, what financial means we have available and whether our means are capable of achieving the objectives at all. we do not need big words at the level of the european union, but each member state must also make its own efforts to balance its budget and to promote growth. in the face of structural changes in the world economy, in particular the intensification of competition, as well as demographic changes in europe, we must focus on a fundamental reform of the entire economic and social system of the european union, rather than on airplane but frivolous ideas. there is no other way to find an exit from today's still comfortable but rapidly becoming uncompetitive and therefore faltering welfare society. inevitably, there will be times when we need to make unpopular decisions, but by making those decisions today, we will be able to adapt much more quickly to the new reality.
mr. president, i have to go. i too voted in favour of this report because it establishes uniform binding standards of quality and standards for human organs intended for transplantation in all member states, ensures the protection of both donors and recipients and also facilitates cooperation between member states. we gave this report a chance to improve the quality of life for those, the more than 56,000 people in our community who are waiting today for organ transplants.
i welcome the action plan and i voted in favour of it. it's a step in the right direction, and solving this problem will require all of us working together. it is precisely the measures set out at community level that help us to complement the efforts of the member states in ensuring the quality and safety of organ donation and transplantation, in better coping with the problem of organ shortages, and in improving the efficiency of transplantation systems. the approved action plan will give member states the opportunity to improve the preparation of their national action plans on the basis of the 10 priority actions we have described. we are hereby obliged to contribute, within our competence, to a high level of health protection throughout the european union.
in writing. the eu has set itself the objective of becoming one of the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economies in the world by 2010. a rapidly changing work environment, a knowledge-based economy and increasingly rapid technological developments are challenges facing european higher education and research today. the economic crisis that has hit europe has also had an impact on european competitiveness, with major changes in financial and economic markets, the bankruptcy of entire industries and the loss of many jobs, etc., all of which make it more difficult for the eu to achieve the objective described above. in the current context, i believe it is important to strengthen the dialogue between universities and businesses, as improved cooperation offers greater opportunities for mutual benefits, which would not only stimulate economic growth in the future, but also benefit society more broadly by supporting the continuous improvement of a society based on doing. i believe that member states should also pay much more attention to stimulating continuous adaptation to a changing labour market, which is a priority for the european union, especially in the current economic downturn, by promoting lifelong learning. further training and retraining at all stages of life is essential for enhancing european competitiveness, growth and jobs. in this context, and also in view of the demographic changes taking place in the eu, i believe that the member states must increase their level of commitment to people in the coming years, by prioritising the eu's most important resource - its people.
in writing. – the situation in the south caucasus region needs especially now a proactive approach by the european union with the lisbon treaty providing the eu with a mandate to become much more engaged and present in the region. the full-scale russian military invasion of large parts of georgian territory in august 2007 dramatically demonstrated that so-called frozen conflicts can easily become sources of devastating regional conflicts if major powers like the eu are not actively engaged in the area. in 2007, both the eu and nato were clearly left unprepared to face the new situation. within the framework of eastern neighbourhood policy the eu is well placed to have a prominent role in contributing to confidence-building, reconstruction and rehabilitation. first of all, this means strengthening the presence of the eu in the region. we support fully the constructive mission of our special representative peter semneby. however, we cannot limit ourselves to monitoring missions. in addition and in violation to 2007 agreements, the eumm is still not allowed to enter the separatist entities under russian control. such a situation is both intolerable and humiliating. we can continue cooperation with the russian authorities only on condition that they fully honour their own commitments.
in writing. – it was about time to discuss a strategy for the caucasus, and this strategy should not close its eyes to the unpleasant processes ongoing between ukraine and russia. the case concerns the prolonging of the lease of the sevastopol naval base up to 2050. the statements by russian leaders that the black sea fleet will never be used against its neighbours do not sound too sincere. why is the fleet there, then – to entertain kids and the elderly in crimea? ceterum censeo, france has decided to sell a mistral class warship to russia; we believe that it will sincerely regret its action.
mr president, i supported the original paragraph 12 in this report expressing concern about the use of ethnic cleansing as a prelude to russia’s recognition of the puppet entities of south ossetia and abkhazia. my proposal was to call on russia to honour its ceasefire commitments without delay and to lift immediately its blocking of eumm access to south ossetia and abkhazia. i find it is a really intolerable and humiliating situation that the eu representatives have to ask for access to these entities which had been agreed. against this background a call to russia to respect the sovereignty and integrity of the georgian republic has no authority, unfortunately.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr edward scicluna for his very balanced and substantive report on estonia’s convergence and entry into the euro area. i also want to congratulate our estonian friends on reaching this important milestone. i appreciate the overwhelming support for estonia’s euro adoption given by parliament’s econ committee on 2 june. it is indeed crucial in bringing the commission proposal further and eventually introducing the euro in estonia on 1 january next year. we all know that the convergence assessment and the decision on estonia’s adoption of the euro will take place against the background of one of the most difficult times for the euro area – if not the most difficult time – since its creation. in this respect this positive assessment on estonia is an especially important signal, showing that the emu framework is fully functional. it also underscores that, in the convergence assessment, member states are examined on the basis of their own performance, on their own merits and with full respect to the principle of equal treatment. the positive assessment on estonia is also a strong positive signal for the markets as well as for the non-euro area member states at this current juncture. let me stress that estonia would enter the euro area from a very strong position with credible policies, one of the strongest fiscal positions and by far the lowest debt level in the eu, as mr scicluna illustrated. while the average in the european union is currently around 75% public debt, estonia has a debt level of 7.2%, which is of course a huge difference from the average. while not immune to the crisis, the estonian economy has also shown its ability to operate and adjust under a fixed exchange rate regime for close to two decades since 1992. therefore euro adoption itself is not expected to be a major shock to financing conditions as financial deepening is already well advanced. of course, euro adoption will not be the end of the road; quite the contrary. should estonia adopt the euro next year, it will be key to maintain policy discipline and fully gear fiscal, structural and prudential policies towards a successful performance within the euro area. i welcome the willingness of the estonian authorities to reassure euro-area and eu partners through a formal letter stating their firm commitment to stability-oriented policies and setting out policy priorities accordingly. in parallel, there is a pressing need to strengthen economic governance in europe. the commission’s recent proposals aim at both substantial deepening of economic governance in europe and prudent widening of the euro area on the basis of the countries’ own merits. that is the way to build up a stronger and more effective economic and monetary union. to conclude, after this week’s consultation with the european parliament, the issue will be followed by a discussion in the european council later this week. should all go as planned, we expect to have all relevant legal acts adopted by the ecofin council on 13 july, thus giving estonia sufficient time to prepare for the changeover and for the adoption of the euro on 1 january next year. so, once more, many thanks for your support for the proposal, and my warmest congratulations to the estonian people!
on behalf of the s&d group. ladies and gentlemen, the day after tomorrow we will vote jointly on the european parliament's report on estonia's accession to the euro area. that leaves a little less than a month before the grand jury makes a formal decision. the accession of estonia to the euro area is another milestone in the process of european union integration and is a natural part of the sound fiscal policy that estonia has cultivated over the years. already in the early stages of the economic crisis, our society understood that the challenges posed by the crisis required a completely new approach and a rethinking of many of the policies that had been in place. in concrete terms, these steps meant a number of budget cuts in 2008 and 2009. the accession means that the efforts made in recent years have been well-earned, and the developments of recent years have also shown the importance of reliable statistics and the avoidance of double standards. i am confident that estonia will continue to pursue its transparent and prudent fiscal policy. we have realized that a small open economy has no choice. estonia's accession is a positive sign for the whole of europe. our faith in the single currency is like a light in a tunnel in today's difficult economic situation in europe. i believe that estonia's accession will give the euro area a member who understands the rules of the game and who will be useful in strengthening the monetary union and the single currency. i would like to thank my colleagues, namely the rapporteur, edward scicluna, and the deputy rapporteur, for their substantial work. i can assure you that estonia is ready to join the euro area. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, edward scicluna, for his report in favour of estonia joining the euro area. i am pleased that estonia's efforts to meet the maastricht criteria have been duly appreciated and i hope that colleagues will support the report in the vote on wednesday. the introduction of the euro in estonia on 1 january next year will be a watershed moment for the euro area as a whole. the global economic and financial crisis exposed member states that have systematically deviated from the commonly agreed criteria, thereby jeopardising the economies of the other members. the current crisis is a highly instructive one and it is particularly important that all euro area member states and the european central bank pay close attention to ensuring that the maastricht criteria are consistently met. the criteria become meaningless in their own right if member states are allowed to deviate from them and 'run roughshod over' others. although a precedent has been set, we cannot rely on rescue packages to compensate for irresponsible economic and monetary policy decisions by member states. the estonian government has had to take a number of difficult but necessary decisions to stabilise the state budget and halt the economic downturn. the forthcoming accession to the euro area is a sign that the government's efforts have borne fruit. i hope that other member states will also be prepared to adopt measures to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and finance in the light of the structural changes taking place in the world economy. estonia's accession to the euro area sends an important encouraging signal and gives reason to believe that the single currency will soon stabilise after a recent downward trend.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question. unfortunately, i could not support the compromise amendment proposed by the four groups, as it excluded estonia and latvia from the rail corridor described in annex 1, point 8. given the overall future prospects of the railway and the rail baltica project, it would have been expected that tallinn and riga would also be involved in this corridor. unfortunately, the amendment adopted limited the possibilities for us, estonia and latvia, and thus did not move any closer to connecting all the member states of the european union to a single railway system.
over the past five years, while we have made some progress in the area of women's and men's economic independence, with the employment rate for women rising to almost 60%, there has been no improvement in the closure of the gender pay gap. in 2007, women were paid on average 17% less than men. in my home country of estonia, the difference was over 30 percent. 2007 was a year of economic growth. what numbers will we soon know when the next corresponding analysis comes? in every country, the charts of successful companies are presented, the richest people in the country are introduced, they are applauded. and they're 99% male, as a rule. now, if we think about the gender pay gap, it's expressed in the profits of the men and the dividends that are paid out to the women... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to make three points. firstly, the great majority of this parliament and the commission are united in stressing the enforcement of the community method. i support this approach, but we should be aware that it is the commission that has to perform economic governance, not necessarily the council. before starting new institutions, we need first to strengthen the existing ones. the commission needs to have a stronger mandate to efficiently coordinate fiscal consolidation, with the authority to issue warnings to those who violate the rules. secondly, the crisis provides also for opportunities, for example completion of the internal common market. i shall stress especially the european digital agenda, which is an important part of the europe 2020 strategy. it should become an instrument to boost an efficiently functioning, common digital market for products and services, reducing horizontal obstacles of bureaucracy and communication. thirdly, the eurozone. a credible and stable euro is a core not only of the eurozone of 16; it is a core of the union as a whole. the present crisis should not lead to splitting europe into two separate spheres, but on the contrary should consolidate it around common economic and spiritual values. estonia’s joining the eurozone at a time of turmoil is a demonstration of confidence in the euro’s future. this is the time to ask, ‘what can we do to strengthen europe?’ not ‘what can europe do for us?’ estonia will join the euro club with full awareness that it will take co-responsibility for its cohesion and will make our proportional contribution to the fund on financial stabilisation.
on behalf of the alde group. the president, the high representative! the eu-russia summit in rostov-on-don raised hopes for a breakthrough in relations between the two, particularly in economic cooperation and, more broadly, international cooperation with russia. however, we consider it important that the development of relations should not be left out of the emphasis on the principles of democracy, human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law. alde supports a modernisation programme aimed at diversifying russia's economic environment and developing trade relations with the european union. this objective is achievable if russia does all it can to put its economic and legal environment in order. for us, the customs union between russia, kazakhstan and belarus is a signal that russia does not want to join the wto anytime soon, which in turn will scare potential investors away from it. as regards foreign investment in russia, we want to see legal certainty here, whether in the energy sector or in any other area. we would like to see a greater willingness on the russian side to improve cooperation in the cross-border transport of goods, but we also think it is reasonable to simplify the visa regime between the european union and russia, but russia must take concrete and practical steps to achieve this. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a full part in the fight against terrorism. we welcome the ratification of protocol 14 to the convention on human rights and the maintenance of the moratorium on the death penalty in russia, but we recall that there are still outstanding commitments concerning georgia. we also want to see honest cooperation between russia and moldova in resolving the conflicts in the south caucasus. finally, i would like to return to the basic values. alde would like to develop a long-term partnership with russia in all areas, but we cannot tolerate deviations from our partner that violate the principles of the rule of law and democracy. no economic benefit can take precedence over the values that the european union represents. the second trial of mikhail khodorkovsky is a clear example of the russian federation's departure from the rule of law, and it is also the subject of amendment no 5 tabled by the alde group, which we ask our colleagues to support. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. – the rostov summit seems to lack any significant result. the modernisation programme looks like a nicely packaged substitute for the absence of substantial long-term cooperation. none of the official results addresses directly russia's notorious failure to apply the rule of law. true, president van rompuy raised the human rights issue, however this was not reflected in the joint statement. the conclusion, sadly, is that 'soft values' upon which the eu is officially based still remain on the unofficial level when dealing with influential third parties. while the joint statement refers to building a civil society and developing people-to-people contacts, the question remains: how can civil society be connected, if many of its activists face imprisonment or harassment just for voicing their opinion? that is why the eu needs to strongly react to the citizens' demonstrations in 40 russian cities on may 31 that called for implementation of the constitutional right for freedom of assembly. right after the summit, germany and russia issued a statement on creating a joint eu-russia security committee. such improvised bilateral agreements are bound to undermine the eu's role and credibility in the eyes of third parties to conduct common foreign and security policies under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. i am surprised at the conformism of the compromise resolution on the conclusions of the eu-russia summit which addresses the human rights issue so little. i am afraid that this way of dealing with the problems with russia will not be of any use to future eu-russia relations. ceterum censeo, france has sold russia a mistral-type warship and i am sure that they will regret their action.
i trust the euro as a tool and of course as an estonian representative i supported the adoption of the report and the introduction of the euro from next year. yes, our budget deficit is small, the public sector borrowing burden is the lowest in europe. the government has cut everything it could get its hands on. and the result is that the european union has given its approval. i voted in favour of the report for the same reason: to thank and commend my people, the people of estonia. without strikes, without riots, without even a big complaint, with high unemployment, with low wages, they've survived it all. we can't keep this up any longer. we hope the euro will ease the burden, and usher in a new upswing. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, i had my hand raised at the time in the debate on the previous report (that is mrs bauer) and when i finish on the sommer report, i would also like to speak about this. i also filed a written request, so it's not my fault i didn't get the word. but speaking of mrs sommer's report, the rapporteur has done a very good job and i am in favour of legal clarity, because the adoption of one set of rules would replace the current patchwork of rules. i therefore supported the adoption of the regulation. i'm a supporter of the gda because it's a price tag that gives you information about how much energy and nutrients are in a single serving of food. this information is welcome in the consumer decision-making process. but i did not support the introduction of a color-coding system. this system gives subjective evaluation of products and does not give the consumer information on how to eat a balanced diet according to his needs. the lighting system actually divides food into good and bad, but it makes sense to talk about good and bad eating habits. - thank you. - thank you.
i appreciated mrs. bauer's work. i'm on that committee, and i saw how much effort he put in and how long it took. i do not think it is appropriate to include fies in this regulation, because they are covered by another regulation, namely regulation no 51, and over-regulation is not a positive thing. so i did not support the rejection of the commission's proposals, nor did i support the rejection of the report. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i want to thank you for your support for estonia's accession to the euro area. this is a big decision for a small country. estonia has done a lot to achieve this goal, and the people have suffered a lot. it has also had a major impact on our economy. unfortunately, not all the decisions taken by our government can be accepted, given the prospect of the euro. hopefully, after the euro, we can take a greater role in the running of our economy and restore public investment in infrastructure and contribute more to the development of the labour market. i would like to thank the rapporteur for a relevant and informed report and for the courage to stand up for the future of the euro area, and i would also like to thank the colleagues who expressed their support for the negotiations on monday and for the vote today. the biggest thanks, of course, go to the people of estonia, who made all this possible.
mr president, if we are serious about asking for an impartial international inquiry into this tragic incident, we should also avoid rushing to conclusions. i would be cautious today in claiming that this initiative had no connection whatsoever with extremist organisations or with political provocation. but the crucial point of this debate is to take a balanced approach. while we call on israel immediately to lift the blockade of gaza, we also call on hamas – which has taken power by military means and refuses to recognise israel’s right to existence – immediately to stop all attacks against israel. solving the crisis in gaza and addressing israeli security interests should be credibly linked. we call on you, baroness ashton, to take the initiative via the quartet to ensure international monitoring of the gaza crossings. the position of this parliament is that we need to reshape the whole of eu policy in the middle east.
i would also like to begin by thanking mrs ashton, who has been a champion of human rights and who, in her opening speech today, also made her position very clear. the report drawn up by our colleague heidi hautala draws attention to a very important aspect. in particular, the report notes that trade agreements containing a human rights clause would allow the european union to require respect for human rights as a condition of trade. to prevent human rights from becoming mere rhetoric, the european union must significantly increase the coherence of its policies and also encourage member states to coordinate their policies towards third countries. we have economic and trade channels that we can use to use conditionality to improve the human rights situation in the world. non-conformist policies allow countries that do not respect human rights to pursue their interests through bilateral relations with individual member states, despite transnational commitments to the protection of human rights, and undermine our collective efforts. no national economic interest can override the value of the european union as a whole. i therefore ask the high representative to continue to give parliament an overview of the steps he envisages for the respective policies of the member states of the european union... (the chairman interrupted the speaker.)
in writing. despite gender equality being a human rights issue and part of the european union's value chain, there is still a significant gap between women's political and real lives. education has a major impact on the opportunities and choices of men and women it opens the door to the labour market, and proves decisive for income and career development. despite the fact that almost 60% of women in the eu have a tertiary education, they are still forced to work in jobs and positions that are less valued than men. over the past five years, while we have made some progress in the area of economic independence for women and men and the employment rate for women has risen to almost 60%, there has been no change for the better in the elimination of the gender pay gap. in 2007, women were paid on average 17% less than men (in some countries even 30%). 2007 was a time of economic growth. we'll hear about the huge pay gap that's been created by the crisis. given the seriousness of the situation, we need to step up efforts in the eu, use less empty words on reducing the gender pay gap and develop effective measures to combat pay discrimination! i also support their implementation in the member states. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal that the gender pay gap should be reduced to between 0 and 5% by 2020. i think that europe should have zero tolerance for the gender pay gap.
mr president, i would like to voice a similar opinion. with regard to the resolution on russia, i voted for amendments 1 to 4. it has been said that it was not the business of the eu-russia summit to address all the human rights programmes, but they are linked, especially when we take into consideration the fact that there were demonstrations in 40 russian cities on 31 may – that is just before the summit began – asking for freedom of assembly. we should mention this. i also support mentioning the death of sergey magnitsky and the need to explain the causes of this death, and amendment 3, which notes widespread impunity for violence against human rights defenders and similar matters.
mr president, i supported the gaza resolution. however, i find that, emotionally, it is not very well balanced. while we call for an impartial international inquiry into this incident, we should not rush to conclusions or assessments, and that is why i opposed the second part of paragraph 2, which declares that this was a breach of international law. it is up to the investigators to find that out. i also oppose recital c.
in writing. - i support this report, but i am only concerned about the fact that our policies are not conducive to the participation of women in elections. elanikkond looks to parliament to ensure that the final report is actually made available to it. we are set on a fair value scale if we now have a good sense of what it is that we want to achieve. it is no secret that the financial crisis has had a damaging impact on europe's economy, especially for women - the crisis has exacerbated long-standing gender equality problems and inequalities and discrimination. in the context of the crisis, one of the main objectives of the eu in the new economic environment is to increase competitiveness and sustainability, if not to increase competitiveness. while working to improve the eu's competitiveness, we should not forget that equality between women and men is not an end in itself, but a prerequisite for achieving the eu's overall goals of growth, employment and social cohesion. it is also important to note that the eu 2020 strategy, which plans europe's strategic objectives for the next 10 years, lacks a single aspect of the measures fully planned. the rapporteur stresses that equal treatment of women and men is one of the values of the european union and must be one of the central principles of any policy response to the economic and financial crisis.
mr president, sadly the killing of mr bahizire 15 days ago is not an isolated tragedy. as the un special rapporteur has said, this killing strongly suggests official responsibility. we notice that politically motivated killings are part of a growing trend of intimidation and harassment of human rights defenders, political opponents, victims and witnesses in the democratic republic of congo during the past five years. we express our deep sorrow and sympathy to the family of mr bahizire and we call on the council and the commission to put pressure on the authorities of the democratic republic of congo to provide for normal conditions for human rights defenders and to bring those responsible to justice.
mr president, the spanish presidency has coincided with a deep financial and credibility crisis in the union. this crisis has hit the country holding the presidency very hard. the deficit of trust in the eu economy and common currency is rooted in the huge debt burden, which is still looming large in the way of life: living today at the cost of tomorrow. last week’s economist asked: ‘is there life after debt?’. the prime minister referred to enhancing competitiveness as one of the main goals of the presidency, but no real recipe has been offered as regards how to address the crisis of values, the moral crisis, and even how it would be practically possible to return to a balanced budget. on several occasions we have missed the council at question time in strasbourg. numerous meps are still waiting for the opportunity to put a question to the council on how the new esdp could be applied to arms sales to third countries and whether we could we finally agree to have consultations in the council before deciding to sell modern military technology to partners outside the eu. lastly, i am concerned that cyber threats have not been high on the spanish agenda. cyber weapons are being developed secretly and we have no idea of how and when they could be used. the eu needs to take the lead in the debate on how to reduce the threat of cyber war, how to restrict cyber attacks before it is too late, and establishing whether there is any chance of agreeing on any rules on good behaviour in cyberspace.
mr president, i supported the report on the baltic sea region strategy and i am satisfied that my amendments have been taken on board, but in certain places i would have liked to have been more explicit. in paragraph 34 we call for the commission to provide for an environmental impact assessment of energy infrastructure projects, but we have failed to mention that the commission has not fulfilled its duty to provide for an objective impartial environmental impact study for the nord stream project. we call for all states around the baltic sea to join the espoo convention, but i think it would make sense to call explicitly for russia to join it too. this would meet our goal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. today's vote on the report on the rights of bus passengers will bring about changes which, while costly, are also necessary to ensure that all europeans have equal opportunities to use the service. i think it is absolutely worth supporting the principle that buses purchased in the future and bus stations built should also be accessible to people with disabilities and special needs. i also think it is important to introduce further clarifications and rules to ensure the rights of passengers both in the event of cancellation of flights and in relation to the handling of luggage. the people of europe deserve precise and concrete rules that guarantee quality of service and specify the rights and obligations of the parties.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. it is very welcome that today's vote has approved the use of intelligent transport systems in road transport and its interfaces with other modes of transport. i have repeatedly drawn attention in the committee on transport to the usefulness and necessity of intelligent transport systems and, of course, to the impact of their use on both transport and the environment. the council welcomes the change in its position from the original position and supports the more rapid and widespread implementation of these systems. in summary, intelligent transport systems help us to ensure smooth and seamless traffic, to increase the safety of passengers and to preserve the environment.
in writing. – i welcome the proposals made by the commission. i can give an assurance that we, in the epp and ep, are ready to work with you and the council on this. europe is about mutual and close interdependency. the current crisis demonstrates how important it is to know more about the challenges and worries the other members experience and to be prepared for common actions. the proposed coordination and control mechanisms are needed, taking into account both the european dimension and specific realities of each member state. however, control mechanisms are not a solution but just a means. they should not be overestimated. the solution is in more efficient work, entrepreneurship and innovation. the key to the solution is prevention. special attention should be paid to budgetary frameworks and the state debts. instead of breaking financial control into smaller clusters, monitoring of the macroeconomic situation as a whole is needed. the new dual system of incentives and sanctions deserves support. i also encourage making better use of the eurostat. reliable and timely data is a crucial component to making the right decisions. i encourage the council to show political will on the measures proposed, so that we can proceed to the practical implementation phase.
in writing. mr president, the programme for the belgian presidency of the council of the european union sets out the intention to launch a debate on a white paper on sustainable transport for 2010-2020. five years ago, the european commission presented a plan for priority links in the trans-european transport networks, with rail baltica, one of thirty projects, linking helsinki to warsaw via the capitals of the baltic states. the 2008 interim report noted that only 135 kilometres of the 1,142 kilometres of track had been completed, but that only one third of the track was expected to be completed this year. the report identifies as one of the concerns the route from białystok to the polish border, which is also problematic due to the difference in track gauge between the baltic states and central europe. during the belgian presidency, it is planned to review the policies and methods adopted to create an integrated european transport network. i am concerned that the baltic states have been cut off from the european rail network up to now, and i hope that during the belgian presidency the importance of connecting estonia, latvia and lithuania to europe will also be given in terms of infrastructure. i consider it necessary to put pressure on the member states involved in the project to continue the work as planned and to find effective solutions to the technical problems raised so that rail baltica can be completed by 2020 as planned. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the state aid granted to the company was compatible with the internal market.
for the verts/ale group my dear colleagues! we are discussing a document which gives the european parliament a mandate to negotiate with iceland, and at the same time it is an important message to the public, including the icelandic public, who, as we know, are not optimistic about joining the european union. since this is a mandate, i think we should emphasise the aspects that are likely to be the most serious in these talks, such as the fisheries and whaling issues. and i regret that the foreign affairs committee voted down the green proposals, because that would have been honest and direct communication to the icelandic people. but the points that do not directly concern the mandate of the negotiators, and i am of course referring to the icesave question, were not voted down. fortunately, mr. preda has reached a satisfactory compromise here. personally, i think it's unfair that some people would want to hold the entire icelandic people responsible for the wrong decisions of some economists. and then the money was put into icelandic banks by some of the british municipalities, which had been given money by the british taxpayers to run public transport and education, not to run casinos. in one of the foreign affairs committee meetings, iceland was even called a bankrupt island. it's true that iceland has been hit by a financial crisis, but do we know many countries that haven't? i don't know, man. so i would remind you that denmark was also in pretty serious financial trouble in 1971, but it became a very good member of the european union a year later. and finally, madam president, i very much hope that already during this assembly, six additional chairs will be installed in this hall for the icelandic members.
i would like to point out that the borders drawn by stalin may remain, but the elimination of the stalinist legacy must also be addressed by the country which, as the successor of the soviet union, sits on the un security council, but in central asia does not want to take responsibility for the elimination of the legacy. this is russia. i would like to thank the commission and this parliament for trying to help refugees, people in need. but we should also tell moscow that this attempt to escape responsibility is not acceptable to us. we've been here for an hour discussing the kyrgyz and turkmen issues, but do you know what vladimir putin is doing right now? he watches spanish and german football. it doesn't have to be like this.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, this has been a very important debate, and i have taken note of your remarks and, of course, your concern. let me begin by saying that the european union will maintain its engagement to attain a complete ban on cluster munitions through our active political outreach in the framework both of the convention on cluster munitions and of the convention on certain conventional weapons. we will also continue to provide international cooperation and assistance by mainstreaming our activities against cluster munitions in our development and in our cooperation policies. if i might address two or three of the key points that have also been raised in this debate. first of all, the decision on accession to the convention by the european union in the post-lisbon era, of course, depends on the member states, because it comes within their remit. members are absolutely right to raise that as an issue that we will need to consider very carefully. if i can say, though, that the position, as i understand it, of a number of member states is that we have 11 member states who have ratified as well as signed the convention, but we have a further eight member states who have signed it but not yet ratified it – so that is 19 member states – and therefore eight member states who have done neither at this stage. members have made their positions very clear in wanting to see as many eu member states as possible continue to take forward both the ratification and the signing. i also want to address briefly the point that ms lynne made about assistance to third countries and, as i said in my earlier remarks, the importance of bringing what we do to support third countries as part of the mainstreaming of our policies – this whole post-lisbon opportunity – to bring together different policies. we want to continue actively, through the external action instruments that we have, to contribute to the disposal of unexploded ordnances, anti-personnel mines and abandoned ammunition stocks precisely for the reasons, as ms lunacek vividly described, of what happens when these brightly coloured bomblets appear on the ground. there are many cases, particularly of children who have been devastated either by the loss of limbs or, occasionally, loss of life as a consequence. we mostly make use of our geographical instruments in response to the needs that are expressed by our partner countries, and we also make use of the humanitarian aid instruments, for example in lebanon or sri lanka, and also to make sure that we are dealing with issues on emerging crises as well. i have mentioned that we spend about eur 330 million in our commitment to support countries that have been directly affected by mines and cluster munitions. i described afghanistan, where we have spent eur 22 million, and lebanon (eur 7 million), and future projects in bosnia and herzegovina, laos and cambodia are under preparation. i also want to make the point that, although i have given that figure, it is difficult to quantify the exact figures for our programmes, and the reason is that during operations on the ground we do not make distinctions between what we clear. the point is that we clear it and that, i hope, will be well understood by members. the final point i wanted to make is that we are trying to ensure that we assist and support the timely signature and ratification of the convention by member states. we have coordination meetings among eu disarmament experts which take place every month, and the issue of the universality of the convention, as well as the state of preparedness of what i described earlier as the first states-party meeting, are regularly discussed. we have decided to contribute to the greatest extent possible to the preparatory committee to be held in september in geneva, in order to ensure that we get good progress when we have that first states-party meeting. though the hour is late, this has been an extremely important debate and i am very grateful for the contributions that have been made.
in writing. – i fully support the initiative not to use cluster munitions, but, coming from a country whose neighbour does not follow the conditions of the treaty on conventional armed forces in europe, i have to admit that this idea is ahead of its time and i must therefore abstain. ceterum censeo, france has decided to sell a mistral class warship to russia; we believe that it will sincerely regret its action.
in writing. dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr george lyon, for producing a very balanced report! i believe that this will provide a good basis for discussions in the near future. changing the agricultural policy is perhaps one of the major tasks of this composition. true, we will not taste the real fruitage of this until much later, perhaps ten years from now. although the most important task of agriculture is to provide food, there is a growing recognition of the importance of agriculture as a public good. this can be demonstrated by social, environmental or cultural aspects. a relatively small part of the population actually feeds 100% of the population, uses land sustainably and maintains social balance in rural areas across the european union. the report is a good start for further discussions. thank you for your attention!
mr president, i supported elmar brok’s report. the united position of the european parliament has taken maximum advantage of the new opportunities the lisbon treaty offers. i support especially the european parliament’s political and financial supervision of the european external action service. i am satisfied about the consent of the high representative to create such a special human rights and democracy structure as the eeas headquarters. but, most importantly, we continue to support the practical implementation of an adequate geographical balance, with an eeas staff comprising representatives from all 27 member states. this process has only begun. i think it is important that the 2013 review should also cover this issue of equal representation.
madam president, it is now less than five weeks since farai maguwu was detained by the zimbabwean authorities. since then he has been kept in detention in unknown conditions and deprived of his personal rights. i am happy that this parliament is united in asking for his immediate release, but i am concerned that his arrest could be a setback to the results of the tel aviv meeting and to the kimberley process. as our colleague, mr van orden, mentioned, there is systematic abuse of workers in diamond mines, and the situation in zimbabwe is very typical, with huge earnings from mineral exports not being reflected in the living conditions of the population, which is kept in poverty and experiences disease. i also agree that african states have an important role to play in improving conditions there. i support dialogue with zimbabwe by the european commission on condition that mr maguwu be released and the kimberley process addressed by the zimbabwean authorities.
in writing. all of us in the european union must have equal opportunities to participate fully in society, including work and economic activity, and to enjoy a standard of living and well-being that is considered normal in the society in which we live. unfortunately, the current global economic and social crisis has exacerbated poverty and exclusion among women, especially older women. as women live on average six years longer than men, gender becomes a vital factor in ageing. i believe that the fight against poverty and exclusion of women must remain one of the key challenges in the eu, and that member states should strengthen their social protection systems and policies on lifelong learning and active inclusion, in order to create opportunities for women to participate actively in society at different stages of life and to protect them from the risk of exclusion. it is important that member states focus their efforts on ensuring equal opportunities, as equality between women and men is not an end in itself but a precondition for achieving the eu's overall objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion.
in writing. mr president, mr president of the commission, your speech today is amazing. it reminds me of the "good old days of the soviet union", when similar talks were held more frequently as the economy deteriorated. we're still in the style of "grow, grow, improve". instead of the communist party, you use the phrase 'european commission'. your speech today is utterly misleading and populist. you want to appeal to all political groups, from the left to the extreme right. you talk about social justice and the social market economy and that the european commission is concerned with job creation. i don't think you believe what you're saying either. when does the european commission start creating jobs or when do the governments of the member states start creating jobs? i know that the employers who create jobs are the ones you never mention in your speech! on what grounds are you misleading european citizens by promising them social justice in a situation where our economy is hanging by a thread? instead of giving people a black eye and promising them a better life, you should tell them the truth that they must rely on themselves first, work harder and strive to remain competitive in the labour market, and also expect a message from you to support european businesses in the face of increasing global competition through lower taxes and simplified legislation. i must say, i'm disappointed in your speech.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank first of all the rapporteur, mr őry, for his report and his constructive approach to the commission proposal on the employment guidelines and i very much agree with him on the need to put these new employment guidelines into the context of the crisis. it is just two years ago since the fall of lehman brothers and 2008 was an annus horribilis in the financial sector; 2009 was an annus horribilis for the economy with an unprecedented recession; and 2010 is an annus horribilis for employment in europe, with an average unemployment rate of 10% and 20% among young people. we really have to take these matters seriously, and that is why i very much appreciate the way in which we have been working with parliament in the recent months – in the spring period in particular – on both the guidelines and the eu 2020 strategy. the commission has followed the work on this report very closely. the debate has been extensive and fruitful. the debate has also shown that priorities have to be made and compromises have to be struck. i welcome the excellent cooperation between the committee on employment and social affairs and the commission over the last four months. as i have stressed on several occasions it is of vital importance for the commission to have all the main eu institutions on board, and in particular the european parliament, in order to establish the necessary political ownership of the new europe 2020 strategy and to ensure that europe 2020 becomes a success. i can assure you that the commission will be keen to involve parliament as closely as possible in the implementation of the strategy in the coming years. i am pleased to note that a large part of the proposals and amendments put forward in the draft report have been introduced by the council and are included in the text which was given political endorsement by the european council in june. there are a number of outstanding points which will have to be discussed with the council. the commission would not be in favour of the amendments which aim to alter the structure of the guidelines by adding new guidelines. this would undermine the clarity and the coherence of the commission’s proposal. the commission is also against the idea of adding more headline targets to the five already agreed at political level. for the commission, the fundamental principle in designing the new strategy has been to limit the number of targets and objectives in order to better focus the new strategy. this being so, the commission agrees that some issues may need further strengthening in the text, for example in relation to child care, decent work or smes. the commission is ready to work with parliament and with the council in order to find a mutually suitable compromise text.
on behalf of the alde group. chairman of the sitting, commissioner, colleagues! we're discussing new employment trends in the midst of an economic crisis. this will undoubtedly have a strong impact on the labour market for many years to come. it is important to agree on a strong strategy at european union level that would make a real contribution to solving the problems. the failure to achieve the objectives set by the lisbon strategy was mainly due to implementation problems, not to its false objectives. the success of the new strategy will depend to a large extent on our ability to learn from past mistakes. job creation and employment must remain at the heart of the new strategy. the creation of quality jobs, which are needed in the longer term and which create high added value, is a priority. employment policy must ensure that workers move as smoothly as possible between economic sectors and different labour market conditions. it is therefore necessary to focus more on long-term objectives and to focus more on coordinated action in enterprise, education and employment policies. the fight against poverty and exclusion is particularly relevant today. we must therefore create opportunities for all groups in society to participate or return to the labour market, regardless of their gender or ethnic origin, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups. as alde's deputy rapporteur, i am pleased that, in cooperation with members of parliament, the strategy now includes the issue of gender equality. and finally, when adopting the strategy, we expect the commission and the member states to adopt the relevant legislative framework in a timely manner. and not just adoption, but close cooperation between the commission and parliament and between the member states themselves. otherwise, talk of a european union common market is half-truth, to put it mildly. i also want to thank mr. őry for his efforts and good cooperation.
in writing. – as mr daul said this morning, we need more europe. more europe does not mean interfering more in the activities of our citizens or member states. it means becoming more efficient and proficient as a union. the integrated guidelines will largely serve this understanding. unemployment rates are at their highest levels for ten years, with youth unemployment at an alarming level. this risks undermining attempts to restore economic growth in the foreseeable future. at the same time, any solutions should incorporate a quality dimension. president barroso pointed today to four million job vacancies. mostly these vacant jobs require a skilled labour force. i urge the commission to introduce without delay the proposed european vacancy monitoring system that will include also a european skills passport. however, the most immediate challenge is to provide a quality education for young people that matches much more closely the practical needs of the labour markets. educational programmes should be reformed with this goal in mind, and member states need to commit to reducing school drop-outs. the all-european target should be to provide our continent with a skilled workforce. finally, we need determination and courage to drastically reduce the administrative and non-tariff barriers for smes.
mr president, i support the integrated guidelines which address the unemployment problems in the member states. at the same time, any solutions should incorporate a quality dimension. as president barroso yesterday pointed out, there are four million job vacancies in europe today. mostly these vacant jobs require a skilled labour force. i urge the commission, therefore, to introduce without delay the proposed european vacancy monitoring system, which should also include a european skills passport. the all-european target should guarantee our continent a skilled workforce. in addition, we need courage to drastically reduce the administrative and non-tariff barriers for smes.
mr president, i of course supported this resolution. this is just one more statement in support of saving the life of mrs sakineh ashtiani. sadly, this is not an isolated case. up to 300 women have been stoned to death since the present clerical terrorist regime took power 31 years ago. it also continues with public hangings, including those of minors. we should do our utmost to save the life of mrs ashtiani but, even if we succeed in doing this, the nature of this regime, in all probability, will not change. therefore we need to support without reservation those brave people in iran – and there are millions of them since last summer – who are trying to replace the present regime with an open, non-militant and democratic one. we should not to be afraid of trying to do this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this is an important issue, and i thank colleagues for their understanding of the concerns my region is having with a particular french decision about mistral platforms. the eu code of conduct, which has been a legally binding text since 2008, is a good step but is not enough, as has also been mentioned by our liberal colleague. we should continue work on the global-level arms trade because the eu has a great responsibility. we are responsible for one third of the volume in arms trade. if the proposition is that russia is our strategic partner and we can cooperate on military affairs with russia, for me it is a question of logic. why does our friend need an assault weapon system? to participate in an effort to organise some sort of good governance in afghanistan? no, moscow has no intention of participating in that operation. to protect human and minority rights in kyrgyzstan? no, and in both cases mistral is no use because it cannot approach these landlocked countries. it will change the situation in the black sea – not for better, but for worse – and also affect eight european union member states around the baltic sea. the security situation of those states – from poland and germany to estonia, latvia and lithuania – will worsen. i agree with mr gualtieri that cooperation with our strategic partner is a good thing but, believe me, there are other means of cooperating with russia than high-tech weapon systems. think about cars – this is something russian industry is also struggling with. think about cooperation between fire brigades. the russian fire fighters were in trouble this summer when an area of forest equal to the size of belgium was burning. ceterum censeo. the sale of mistral needs to be cancelled.
mr president, this debate is about bilateralism versus common policies and solidarity. in fact, citizens of several member states have become seriously worried about imminent exports of modern military technology to third countries. only a year ago, russia conducted military manoeuvres in north-eastern europe, the scenarios of which targeted the baltic states as objects of military invasion. we have the famous words of the commander of the russian navy to the effect that, if it had had mistral carriers at its disposal in august 2008 it would have been able to complete its operation in three hours, rather than three days. i am happy with the statement made by secretary of state chastel, which i consider a very positive reaction to our worries, and at the declaration made by our colleague, mr danjean, that no military technology will be sold. however, the russians have insisted – and will continue to insist – on buying precisely that military technology. there is still one question to be answered, which is why do we not have consultations and normal debates in the council in cases where one member state is prepared to sell military technology to a third country? that is our message to the council. we would draw attention to the necessity of routinely discussing, within the european council, exports of military equipment to third countries.
mr president, i voted for the epp resolution because the text of this resolution offered a constructive and comprehensive european solution to the problem of better social inclusion of roma. instead of using their serious social and economic situation as an instrument for politically motivated attacks against certain law-abiding governments like those of france and italy, the epp proposes a european roma strategy. shifting the problem from one member state to another does not help us to find necessary resources. we can only do it together in the spirit of a constructive approach.
author. − madam president, i think today’s issue is to discuss whether accountability for crimes against humanity can be applied in practice. sudan’s president bashir is accused of such crimes by the international criminal court and arrest warrants have been issued. the issue today is whether there will be enough international political will and coordination to bring such perpetrators to justice. on 27 august, the kenyan government missed this opportunity. they invited president bashir as a guest. it is good to know that the kenyan prime minister has admitted that this invitation was a mistake and a breach of kenya’s international commitments. today we call on african union states to join without exception the international effort to bring president bashir to the international criminal court in the hague, where he will benefit from all rights for his defence. i am very glad that there is a unanimous message around this chamber today to address this issue and bring president bashir to the international criminal court.
madam president, today’s debate shows that europe has drawn lessons from the multiple supply crisis. estonia’s first experience in independence came in december 1992, when russia shut off all gas and oil supplies. it nevertheless made us stronger. today we see encouraging cooperation, first of all between parliament and the commission. i would like to thank you, commissioner oettinger, for your vigorous and responsible approach to these challenges. it is a promising attempt to embody solidarity in practical eu mechanisms. importantly, we are going to provide for a common set of infrastructure and supply standards, with growing responsibility and coordination by the commission. but above all we still need an integrated eu network of supplies. i would like to draw attention to mr turmes’ suggestion for improving our north-south connections and providing for storage facilities for the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this milestone report because it is a significant step towards the full implementation and integration of the european single market. in times of globalisation and digitalisation, the european union cannot afford to lag behind in creating an efficient internal market for e-commerce which should also become competitive on the global scene. hopefully this report will be followed by further steps to stimulate the creation of a europe-wide digital market. such developments will also contribute to rethinking and relaunching the vitally important r&d activities. what we need first and foremost is to monitor and follow the implementation of the report on e-commerce to ensure that eu citizens will have easier access to digital business making, both as entrepreneurs and as customers. the measures laid down in this report should considerably ease doing business across the member states, provided that the national governments start to make real progress in unifying the rules on contracts and overcome conflicting laws.
in writing. pharmacovigilance is a very important part of public health. side effects of medication often have irreversible consequences for the patient's health, even his life. many court cases have shown that pharmaceutical companies try to hide the undesirable side effects of drugs for a long time for commercial reasons. it is welcome that the legislation to be adopted will tighten up the criteria, ensuring greater reliability of marketing authorisations and not supporting the widespread use of the so-called 'fast track' procedure. i support the measures to ensure the quality of data in the pharmacovigilance system and believe that the means for effective national pharmacovigilance must be ensured. the whole system must be transparent to the patient.
in writing. – as president van rompuy said, the eu governments knew for a long time about their financial problems but failed to react. we need a new financial supervision architecture for europe. reaching consensus on the macro-economic surveillance framework is a crucial step in the long-term prevention of future crises. however, the commission has a decisive fight ahead to counter the still prevailing short-term approach of first trying to restore economic growth and considering budgetary discipline not that important in the foreseeable future. all member states need to realise that budgetary discipline (a balanced budget) is the only precondition for reliable macro-economic stability. therefore the new eu rules and control mechanisms will help member states in restoring self-discipline. also long-term crisis prevention needs robust structural reforms. are the member states ready for this effort? i welcome president van rompuy’s concept of reciprocity in eu relations with its strategic partners. such an approach means balancing what the eu wants and values and what our partners would like to get from us. at present up to 56 different dialogue sectors are numbered in eu-china relations. to overcome such a grotesque situation, political will giving preference to common policies over bilateralism is needed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the commissioner mentioned among other things his concern over the delays in presenting and launching the cross-border cooperation projects. i would like to point out that there are five land border programmes involving the russian federation as a partner country operating within the framework of the enpi during the period 2007-2013. i find it extremely commendable that the european union and russia have engaged in such an extensive cooperation in order to further develop their strategic partnership. nevertheless, at the moment, there are serious and justified concerns over the timely use of budgets, since all defrayals must be executed by 2014 at the latest. it should be noted that, in the case of russia, there is an imminent threat that most of the available funds will remain unused since there are no ongoing projects and the first goal for proposals was launched as late as this year. i would like to ask the commissioner to explain the situation of the cbc programmes with russia specifically, and to give his view on whether the framework of the european territorial cooperation programmes would not make a better basis for implementation of the external cross-border cooperation programmes.
mr president, commissioner, we should not forget that a substantial part of china’s economic rise is due to the prison economy. the laogai system has been the most important tool of massive political oppression and has included since 1949 about 50 million inmates. even today there are up to five million detainees. most of them have been kept there under the guise of preventing a threat to state security. the large-scale exploitation of slave labour in communist china’s prison camps has become an open secret. it has been proved that most laogai prisons operate under the titles of commercial companies. on the eve of the eu-china summit, commissioner, are you prepared to implement president van rompuy’s principle of reciprocity in further actions? i agree that you did not answer most of our questions. for example, is there any cooperation with us authorities on detecting laogai products? have you taken a look at parliament’s previous resolutions which have advocated a ban on sales of laogai products in europe and have insisted that further progress on cooperation with china should depend on beijing ratifying important un and ilo conventions? also, are you prepared to suspend china’s status under the generalised system of preferences if the chinese authorities refuse? these are questions to which we need answers.
in writing. – the world day against the death penalty is an important cause that reminds us of the unfortunate fact that 43 countries worldwide still retain capital punishment. i agree wholeheartedly with president jerzy buzek, who stated at the opening of the plenary session that death can never ever be considered an act of justice. i welcome the european parliament resolution reiterating the commitment of the european union to the abolition of the death penalty everywhere and calling upon the countries applying the death penalty to declare an immediate moratorium on executions. however, i would like to see the wordy commitment reflected more concretely in the actual policies of the european union and its member states towards third countries. highlighting the importance of the matter on 10 october every year is worthwhile, but we must go further than this in order to see some real progress. the european union must act in a coherent manner and have the abolition of death penalty on the agenda as an actual priority item in order to live up to its image as a torchbearer of human rights and human dignity.
in writing. freedom of movement is of great importance in people's daily lives, as it strengthens contacts between people and helps to realise the freedom of movement, which is a fundamental right in europe. already in the context of the thessaloniki action plan, the european union has expressed its political will to abolish the short-stay visa requirement for all western balkan nationals. the certainty that the european union will in the near future grant visa-free travel to the citizens of the republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia in addition to the citizens of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, bosnia and herzegovina and albania, reduces the risk of increased ethnic and political instability, strengthens political and economic cooperation in the region, increases popular support for the european union and improves the prospects for european integration, while broadening people's horizons and curbing anti-european and extremist forces. i am concerned only by the fact that the only member states that have excluded kosovo from this process (due to their differences) is the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of the western balkan countries. we should not punish the people of kosovo for the differences between member states, but the european commission and the council should take urgent steps together to involve kosovo in the visa liberalisation process, to encourage the kosovo public and government authorities and politicians to undertake the necessary structural reforms and to strengthen political and economic cooperation with the european union.
in writing. – it will be crucial to link and accommodate the eu future cohesion policy to the eu 2020 strategy, because only this link can provide for sustainable economic growth, competiveness and creation of new jobs. at the same time, we should not allow the cohesion policy to be fragmented. eu 2020 will be an important component of the future cohesion policy; however, it cannot become its substitute. a radical simplification of the rules of financing is badly needed in order to make eu funds better available at the local and ngo level. these levels offer the best potential for a meaningful and well-targeted use of eu means. at this point, the often excessive bureaucratic accountability takes more time and energy than goes to the real working-out of the projects. such an imbalance is an increasingly serious practical and moral obstacle for further progress. when preparing the framework for the next financial period, it will be important to engage in time the representatives of the regions and the business sector. their experience and practical sense should be seen as a valuable contribution in efficiently implementing the future regional policy and in obtaining additional resources.
mr president, i would like especially to stress my support for amendment 11, which demands that, in the commission’s future strategies, measures should be included that officially recognise the rights of native peoples to manage the natural resources of their territories and to benefit from their use.
mr president, having voted for this resolution, i would like to make three comments. first, it will be crucial to link and accommodate future cohesion policy to the eu 2020 strategy, because only this link can provide sustainable economic growth and the creation of new jobs. we also need to strengthen the role of social measures within the cohesion policy in order to address the changing democratic situation. second, we badly need a radical simplification of the rules of financing in order to make eu funds better available at local and ngo level. often we face excessive bureaucratic accountability that takes more time and energy than goes to the working-out of the projects. third, when preparing the framework of the next financial period, it will be important to engage, in time and on an equal level, representatives of the regions and the business sector.
in writing. - the respected manager, colleagues! in today's vote on the next mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i voted in favour of this report and the two reports that followed it. i believe that the european union must support people who have lost their jobs as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. today's reports showed that aid is needed by both spain, which is in economic difficulties, and denmark, one of europe's richest welfare states. however, i regret to say that we have not yet had the opportunity to vote in favour of a similar report on estonia. i hope our government will learn from the actions of other member states and decide to support our unemployed.
in writing. – the european parliament has used its new powers in a creative and responsible way, introducing new balances into the external service's architecture. these should not be the balances of yesterday's europe, but the balances of the enlarged eu that are reflected in amendment seven. i am happy that the high representative has taken on board most of parliament's proposals, including the principle of parliamentary supervision. it is crucial that the issue of geographical balance has been addressed comprehensibly, and in a legally binding way, which means that in case of serious problems it is enforceable by law. we are not rivals to the commission, but allies and can succeed only in mutual partnership. as for the substance, i would stress the future responsibility of the eu delegations to monitor the human rights situation in a given country, including regular contacts with the sakharov prize winners and candidates there. it is in our common interests to make the eeas operational in 2011. we look forward to the high representative's report to the european parliament on its implementation in two years time and are prepared to make the necessary modifications.
in writing. – i am glad to welcome the formation of the european external action service after thorough and intricate debates. it is a long-awaited measure towards consolidating the position of the european union as a proficient global actor. however, i am somewhat disappointed that although appointments to the eeas will be made using a thorough selection procedure based on merit and having regard to gender and geographical balance, it still does not guarantee proportional representation of nationals of all member states. it should be noted that while pooling human resources from the commission, the council and the member states, one third from each, some member states are still under-represented in the commission and the council, which might result in an implicit imbalance in the service. i fully agree that the service ought to be made up of competent professionals, but i am also more than sure that there are suitable candidates equally from both genders and from all the member states. the fact that the european union is an egalitarian organisation of 27 member states should be clearly reflected in the composition of the european external action service in order to put our values into practice.
in writing. − i abstained on the occasion of the final vote on the rapkay report on 20 october 2010. i fully support the formation of the european external action service and value highly the efforts of elmar brok and other meps who have managed to successfully balance the original draft presented by the high representative. my intention was to draw attention to the fact that the amendment on geographical representation, which was supported by the afet and budg committees, has not been adopted in the juri committee. as a result, there are doubts whether the final version of the report can provide the european parliament with a legal basis with regard to geographical balance.
in writing. − as a women's advocate, i am particularly concerned that in the current economic crisis, women in the eu are more at risk of falling into extreme poverty than men. if you look at the figures provided by eurostat, almost 27% of women today live at risk of poverty before receiving social benefits. the persistent trend towards the feminisation of poverty in european society shows that the existing framework of social protection systems and the various social, economic and employment policies in the eu are not designed to meet the needs of women or to eliminate the existing disparities in women's employment. i support the rapporteur in her view that the poverty and social exclusion of women in europe require concrete, diverse and gender-based policy solutions and, as such, i supported in principle the raising of the issue by voting in favour.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, high representative, commissioner, i would like to welcome first of all commissioner piebalgs’ detailed and positive statement on the situation and his conclusions that the financial instruments are working well. i think the stability instrument has been very useful in addressing conflicts and crises and we should, therefore, focus more on prevention and follow-up. this also means robust support for civil society-building. here again, the announcement of a substantial increase in funds for peace-building is to be welcomed. we also welcome the news of, and understand the need for, the rise in the ceiling of measures under article 4(1) from 7% to 10%. at the same time, it is crucial to ensure that the different eu instruments and programmes are used coherently and with an understanding of complementarity. the lisbon treaty has to make the eu more coherent and efficient. we have understood in this parliament the need for technical modifications. the question is rather about the political solution, as has been pointed out. this concerns delegated acts and the european parliament’s right to scrutiny. today i am encouraged by the statements of openness on the side of both the council and the commission. this is a sign that you are prepared to reach agreement in the shortest possible time. i very much hope that we can reach such an agreement guaranteeing the rightful balance between the eu’s three institutions.
i have a question for my good colleague, mrs. vaidere, but i'd like to speak from my heart. the fact that we want to adopt a resolution on ukraine now and then tomorrow is not the best time to do so and the ukrainian people, who look at the european parliament with admiration, will not understand us. because what we have in the draft today is not the best, not the most correct, and it also has a factual error. mrs vaidere referred here to the criticism of the president of the venice commission regarding the amendment of the constitution. i have in my possession a letter from him, dated today, in which he expresses his surprise that our resolution contains such a clause and states emphatically that he has not done so here, there or in any third place.
in writing. – i appreciate the debate on ukraine, where opinions are expressed clearly. my conclusion is, that ukrainan democracy needs assistance, but not in the form of this document. it would be more important to create conditions for development. one of those is easing tension in the region. and that is why, ceterum censeo, french plan to sell mistral warship to russia must be stopped!
in writing. mr. chairman, colleagues. it is known that the international maritime organisation has established different requirements for sulphur emissions in different regions in accordance with annex vi to marpol. the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel have been declared sulphur control areas and significantly increased pollution control requirements have been imposed on these areas. in those regions, it is required that marine fuels with a sulphur content of not more than 0,1% may be used in those regions from 2015 onwards, while in the other regions it is required that the sulphur content shall not exceed 0,5% from 2020 onwards. i also addressed this issue at the 6th international maritime conference in tallinn, my home country, on 24 september. i do not think that the solution is for the european union to come out with its own requirements, but not for third countries, i.e. we put our own maritime sector in an unequal competitive position. the situation must be resolved internationally so that the requirements imposed are realistic and apply to all vessels operating in the baltic sea, not just to vessels from eu member states. in addition, the imposition of unreasonable requirements leads to the re-introduction of road transport of goods from the sea, which is considerably more environmentally unfriendly and dangerous. i therefore support the position of the estonian and finnish governments and the european shipowners' association on this issue - the decision of the international maritime organisation must be reviewed and equal rules established for all eu regions and the vessels operating in them.
mr president, having voted for the brantner report, i would like to use this opportunity to turn the commission’s and council’s attention to the need to reach a tripartite agreement on the modification of the stability instrument in the shortest possible time. the disputed issue relates to the delegated acts and parliament's options to exercise its rightful scrutiny over the use of the eu’s financial instruments. what we need is a rapid political solution based on balance between the eu’s three institutions. i would also encourage the commission to improve its reporting to the european parliament on such issues as project design, implementation and review. while parliament receives information from the commission on exceptional assistance measures, the commission’s reporting on broader strategic and analytical terms is still falling short of parliament’s expectations.
i'd like to talk to you about mrs. muscardini's report. i didn't support it when i was deep into the whole issue. why would you do that? the reason is that the rest of the world would interpret the eu's introduction of such a measure as a protectionist move. the verification of this measure would require more time and potentially more manpower from the customs authorities, unpacking and other procedures in the process. the requirement of mandatory labelling itself creates a pressure to counterfeit certain anonymous goods. so instead of the actual labelling of a specific country, we may find fake made in italy, made in france, and that is not what we want.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioners de gucht and reding for their intense but realistic approach to the eu-us summit. i think it is time to recognise that the us can accomplish none of its strategic goals without europe. similarly, the eu cannot play its intended role as a world player without close cooperation with america. the paradox is that globalisation and the rise of non-western powers give the us and eu more, rather than fewer, reasons to intensify their cooperation. at the same time, we see that the transatlantic gap is expanding, not narrowing. europe occupies a smaller role in current american plans and concerns. therefore, it is crucial to recognise that time and opportunities for strengthening mutual partnership are limited. probably during the next 10 years the us and eu will have a chance to set an international agenda providing for a value-based and stable world, but only on condition that they act together. this has to start with completing the transatlantic free trade area, which the european parliament has advocated for several years, overcoming internal divisions in europe and opposing protectionism.
in writing. – humane society can function only based on the principle of intergenerational justice and solidarity. there can be no justice without solidarity. europe has to face two problems - the high unemployment rate among young generation and uncertainty over the capacities to finance retirement funds. the proportion of people aged over 60 years will increase every year by two millions (beginning from 2015). at the same time, the fundamental issue to address is lowering birth rate - the process that has continued for several decades. this will put an increasingly heavy burden on the young generation whose numbers are diminishing and can lead to conflicts over burden-sharing. older people should be seen as an asset. their experience and readiness to actively participate in society building should be encouraged at every level. member states should value and recognize the informal activities in strengthening the intergenerational solidarity by millions of elderly family members who take care of both younger and older members of the society. one of the key solutions is involving better the civil society that has long tradition of organizing social support i also support the initiative by the age platform to declare the year 2012 the year of intergenerational solidarity.
in writing. – mr president, i would like to welcome the report of my colleague thomas mann that addresses several crucial issues that the european union will be facing in the near future if not already now. recent protests in france against raising the pension age signify a distinct schism between the expectations of european citizens and general demographic tendencies. the life expectancy in europe has been steadily increasing, while the population is on decline. both trends, when combined, will inevitably lead to an increase in the tax burden of future generations, unless pension systems are reformed comprehensively. the dissent that the pension reform caused in france can emotionally be understood, but when considering the demographic situation in europe, it must be noted that the proposal of the french government and the ultimate decision of the parliament is the only appropriate response in order to avoid destitute future for both the working and retired people of france. the governments of the member states of the european union must engage in further dialogue with the citizens to create greater awareness of the demographic change and the socio-economic challenges that it brings about. consensus-building is vital to justify necessary, yet unpopular reforms.
in writing. europe's population is ageing every year, despite high levels of immigration and a somewhat increased birth rate, and we are facing new problems and challenges as a result. in the light of the demographic pyramid in europe, it is clear that we will need to attract more older people to the labour market in the future, and in this respect i agree with the rapporteur that an ageing population also offers great opportunities to improve competitiveness and innovation, and thus to increase growth and employment. increasing employment for older people is undoubtedly very important, but first and foremost we need to deal with the causes, not the consequences, i.e. we should make it a priority to increase birth rates. european experience in integrating immigrants has shown that the solution is not to encourage immigration, but the opposite. the great wave of integration into europe has caused indigenous peoples to fear that they will become a minority in their own country, and immigrants will not adopt the local language and culture. as a result, many europeans have reacted by supporting far-right extremists whose principles are in conflict with the core european values. given europe's ageing demographic situation, it is regrettable and controversial that there is a rather high unemployment rate among young people (especially in eastern europe) and that we fail to give enough value to the young people we have. ensuring intergenerational justice is certainly an important issue to address in order to avoid distribution conflicts.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the transatlantic economic council, except some amendments advanced by the alde. i would take this opportunity to call on both transatlantic partners to use fully and without delays the potential of the transatlantic economic council. this latter will become a crucial instrument to overcome the still existing barriers for free trade and to realize the transatlantic free trade market within the next five years. only such a market, advocated by the european parliament on several occasions, can be the basis for a long-term and reliable us - eu cooperation. politically, the us and europe should make determined efforts to agree on a common agenda for dealing with global challenges.
in writing. i am positive that the emphasis of the directive and regulation has shifted from the manufacturers to the patients with these proposals. raising awareness of prescription medicines among patients is crucial to preventing over-consumption of medicines for commercial reasons. unfortunately, in many member states it has become common practice for pharmaceutical companies to lobby heavily, offering various benefits that undoubtedly influence doctors' decisions. of course, commercial interests are not always compatible with the interests of patients and it is therefore necessary to amend directive 2001/83/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 in order to establish a clearer framework for the provision of information on prescription medicinal products. a clearer framework would help to promote the prudent use of medicines and would be in the interest of the health of the patient. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the issue of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the european union's action in the field of health.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question. this report on the duration of the next commitment to the common system of value added tax and the minimum standard rate is only to be welcomed. this report sets the normal tax rate at a minimum of 15% until the end of 2015. the european commission has repeatedly proposed that a 25% ceiling be introduced, but the european council has not supported this. however, the standard rate in no member state currently exceeds 25%. estonia, with a standard vat rate of 20%, is one of the 19 member states with a tax rate of 20% or more. i would like to point out here that i was in favour of extending the 15% minimum rate, which gives each member state the opportunity to decide what its tax rate should be. this report also provides legal certainty for our businesses, who know that the normal rate of vat will not increase over the next five years as a result of european union legislation.
mr president, the key to overcoming the economic crisis is to draw binding conclusions from it, because this is, first of all, a crisis of trust and responsibility. trust is based on a reasonable balance of incomes and expenditures. for more than 20 years, most of europe has been used to living and consuming today, at the expense of tomorrow, and even the day after tomorrow – at the expense of the next generations, whose numbers are dramatically dwindling. secondly, we have been used to treating stability-backed rules in a very liberal way. if the large states can do it in case of domestic need, it is easier for the others to follow suit. therefore, to enforce the principle of fiscal discipline and restore it in all seriousness, the policies of a balanced budget will be the test case of europe’s credibility. thirdly, there is an obvious need for check and balance mechanisms. i can only welcome the council’s approval of the conclusions about european economic governance, the activation of the debt criteria and the chance of an early intervention mechanism. but what we really need – and i can only support the conclusions of my colleague mr verhofstadt – is real economic governance and real automatic sanctions – sanctions that bite. we look forward to the commission’s framework proposals on the future crisis mechanisms next month.
i congratulate the rapporteur and her colleagues on the success of their report. the creation of a pan-european energy market is in the interest of all europeans. however, in opening up the energy market, we have overlooked the issues of market transparency and integrity. i am concerned that in a situation where hundreds of billions of euros in electricity, gas and co2 emissions are traded on the markets, there is a clear gap in supervision and regulation. i therefore welcome the initiative of the european commission to fill the void. i hope that the communication which the commission will soon adopt will be based above all on the interests of consumers and will set out a clear pan-european regulatory framework, establishing clear rules and definitions to prevent insider dealing, market manipulation and increase market liquidity. i believe that the european union energy market regulator acer, created by the third internal market package, must become the place where supervision of electricity, gas and emissions trading is carried out, and i recommend that member states bring these three markets under one regulator.
in writing. – after several dramatic experiences with energy supplies, it has become clear that energy is a key factor of eu security. the need for a long-term strategic vision on energy is obvious. the new proposed energy strategy aims to serve this need. first and foremost, europe needs a coherent and harmonised internal energy market, which has to integrate different energy networks, linking them with each other. this is an absolute priority for the eu’s stability and security. today there are still isolated regions of the eu that depend almost one hundred per cent on external energy supplies. in the case of imported gas, this is true of the three baltic member states. they depend on russian gas exports, which moscow is using as its foreign policy tool. the result is that the baltic nations, being immediate neighbours of russia, pay 30% more than germany for the same russian gas. the new baltic sea strategy should aim at developing integrated grids around the baltic sea. i support allocating a higher proportion of the budget for the common energy policy. developing modern and efficient energy infrastructures will need priority investments. enhancing energy efficiency means investing more in research and development and in new energy technologies.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, it is very welcome that we have the opportunity today to discuss energy security issues actively in the european parliament once again. don't get me wrong, it's a sensitive substance, just like gas. in recent years, the eu as a whole has become increasingly dependent on energy supplies from specific third countries. there is an inherent risk in the market, not only because of the economic aspect but also because of the lack of democratic and human rights and the involvement of companies without good business ideas. unfortunately, it must be admitted that the excellent report by mrs kolarska-bobinskas will be debated and voted on somewhat too late. the european commission has already issued its energy strategy for the eu 2011-2020 on 10 november, so it is probably too late to influence this. but better late than never. that is why i add to today's statements ceterum censeo - france has decided to sell a mistral-class warship to russia. we assume he sincerely regrets his decision.
mr president, one of the most important results of the collapse of the soviet union was the creation of an independent ukraine. it is a country which can be seen as a future member of the european community. i can only welcome the fact that president yanukovych and the new parliament have confirmed their aspirations to join europe, because a genuinely independent and democratic ukraine, free of corruption and a fear of power structures and oligarchs, and a ukraine which is firmly based on the rule of law is, and will be, an irreplaceable factor of stability for the whole continent. without a genuinely democratic ukraine, it is hard to imagine a genuinely democratic russia. yesterday marked six years since the start of the orange revolution. sadly, the huge potential of that change has been wasted. however, thanks to the victory of democratic protesters in december 2004, the credibility of multi-party elections and the freedom of the press was established. in its draft resolution, the european parliament expresses concern over the increasing number of reports that democratic freedoms and rights, including the freedom of the media, have been under threat and that security services have started to intervene in the democratic activities of citizens once again. i would like to send an important message to the new government, which is that europe is open to all fields of cooperation, but the price of that cooperation can never be to ignore the curbing of basic freedoms. as true friends of ukraine, we need more than ever to be frank, friendly and consistent in asserting our values. it is regrettable that, six years on, the new elites still cannot accept the orange revolution as a genuine expression of popular will. coming to terms with the causes and results of that revolution can only improve the integration of ukrainian society.
mr commissioner, my dear colleagues! ukraine is predictably unpredictable. i am glad that this characterisation by the centre for european policy is beginning to fade. i am pleased that the ukrainian government has managed to stabilise the situation. it's good to see that unemployment is also falling and the economy is rising. ukraine is interested in cooperation with the european union, but the interest is bilateral. the european union is also interested in the existence of a democratic rule of law at its borders. today we have to assess the human and fundamental rights situation in ukraine. we're afraid of corruption and its intersection with politics. but ukraine knows that the european union will not compromise on these issues. and this is where we need to work together seriously. in conclusion, i cannot help but say that the decision of this house last month to postpone the adoption of the report was a wise one. tomorrow we will adopt a comprehensive and balanced report which will really benefit ukraine.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on ukraine. however, i regret the fact that this house has postponed the vote already two times, which has resulted in a situation that the eu-ukraine summit, for which the resolution was drafted, has taken place before our vote. the european parliament has seen it as its duty and privilege to take its own position before regular summit meetings with third countries to be able to convey its position in time to both parties. the impact of a resolution adopted afterwards will be much weaker. if such a delay was meant by some colleagues as an attempt not to disturb too much the new ukrainian administration, it is certainly a short-sighted policy. the eu is, and will be, open to all fields of cooperation, but the price of that cooperation can never be looking aside from the alarming attempts to destroy the major achievements of the orange revolution – free elections and freedom of media. i support the statement by commissioner gucht yesterday that there are common european principles on which we cannot compromise.
madam president, more than 50 christians have been murdered in iraq by extremist groups in one month. it is a special responsibility of the new iraqi government to guarantee safety, justice and equal rights to all religious communities. only in this way can baghdad win respect and build trust, not only internally but also in relations with the eu. the situation in many countries of the middle east, from where traditional christian minorities are forced to flee, is alarming. most iraqi assyrians are now internally displaced people. i think it is highly important that, in conducting our common foreign policy, ms ashton should regularly raise the problem of religious freedom and that future eu treaties with third countries should include a clause on respect for religious freedom.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, throughout the history of estonia we have struggled to maintain the language of the indigenous people. after restoring our independence in 1991, we finally enjoyed the liberty to speak our language and treasure our culture and identity. it pains me to see the people of tibet repressed and their language, identity, culture and religion condemned to extinction. the people’s republic of china (prc) is using the same method of achieving marginalisation of tibetans that the soviet union used on estonians. the sinicisation of tibet, just like the russification of estonia during the soviet occupation, is being carried out by relocating non-indigenous people to the established territory of the indigenous people. as long as the han chinese population of tibet is increasing, the tibetans have every right to feel intimidated. the intention of the chinese authorities to introduce mandarin chinese as the primary language of instruction in schools violates the rights of the indigenous people of tibet. i would like to see that violation brought up and resolved as a priority item within eu policy towards the prc.
member of the commission. − madam president, like all of us, i would like to pay homage to aung san suu kyi, whose freedom has just been restored. awarded the nobel prize and parliament’s sakharov prize, she remains a symbol of fortitude and hope for the better future which the people of her country deserve. it is essential that aung san suu kyi has unrestricted freedom of movement and speech. it is equally essential that all remaining political prisoners be set free – more than 2000 of them, according to mr posselt and mr preda. this would allow for a credible transition to a more inclusive system of government. burma/myanmar has seen elections which were not up to international standards, notably as far as conditions for competing opposition parties were concerned. however, the fact that civil society could partially organise itself politically is welcome, notwithstanding the difficulties. we acknowledge the decision of certain opposition parties not to participate, but also the fact that some other parties, including from ethnic groups, did participate. their resolve to seize what they saw as an opportunity was commendable. elections in themselves do not make a country democratic. nevertheless, they can offer the opportunity for a new beginning and they do, at least, introduce a degree of pluralism into the system. in spite of the evident flaws, if the elections mark the beginning of a positive process, this will be a welcome development. we have repeatedly said that the eu was willing to engage with the government, in order to use the opportunity of elections to begin a new and positive phase in the history of the country. from now on, we need to observe closely how accountable the new parliament and government will be to society; whether the new institutions will ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms; and whether they will deliver better policies to improve the economic and social situation of the citizens. to improve the human rights situation in the country, a meaningful dialogue between all stakeholders must be established. such a dialogue should usher in – apart from the long overdue transition to a civilian, legitimate and accountable system of government – a political system based on the rule of law and on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu has repeatedly stated that it stands ready to support such a process. we will continue to use all the means at our disposal – dialogue and engagement, united nations channels and restrictive measures, but also assistance – to help persuade the new government to improve its record. human rights aspects are built into our aid programmes. moreover, we seek links with civil society and parts of the administration and we will try to engage with the government on its responsibilities for attaining the millennium development goals. promoting our values – namely human rights, development and dialogue – is, and will remain, the cornerstone of our policy.
in writing. – i welcome the release of aung san suu kyi from house arrest by the burmese authorities. however, we should not ease our stance against the military junta. instead we should continue addressing the violations of human rights and civil liberties as vigorously as ever. the fact that there are 2 200 political prisoners lingering in appalling conditions in detention facilities and that the burmese military is responsible for continuing extrajudicial killings, forced labour, sexual violence and other human rights violations cannot be undone by releasing one political activist, no matter how prominent. aung san suu kyi, recipient of the sakharov prize in 1990, has famously asked us to use our liberty to promote theirs. i would like to use this opportunity to call on the eu and its member states to use its full economic and political influence to speed up the regime transition in burma.
mr president, one of the issues addressed at the eu-russia summit last week in brussels was the rule of law in the russian federation. i would like to remind you that the verdict in mikhail khodorkovsky’s and platon lebedev’s second trial will be delivered on the morning of 15 december. members of the international community, including the eu, have been observing the trial very closely, and i am convinced that the outcome of the trial will allow us to draw some concrete conclusions about the rule of law in russia. as the next meeting of the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee is being held this week in strasbourg, i would hope to raise this issue with colleagues from the russian state duma and federation council, and i would like to encourage my colleagues here in parliament to do the same.
author. − mr president, i must say that i am very happy that this debate on the eu-russia visa waiver agreement is taking place today in this house, because this issue has been on the joint political agenda between the eu and the russian federation for so long now. i welcome any political progress that was made in this regard at the summit last week. however, i will remain vigilant over the way it is put into practice. concerning the question to the commission on the implementation of the eu-russia visa facilitation agreement that i tabled on behalf of the alde group, i wanted to learn what progress has been made so far and whether we are at the moment in a position to expect a breakthrough in tackling technical questions such as the requirement for eu citizens to register with the authorities within three days if staying in a private home in russia. i fully support the intended visa waiver agreement as a measure to enable russian citizens to travel to the eu with minimum formalities, but i would expect the russian side to apply the same stance to citizens of the european union. another concern that one must address is security on the external borders of the russian federation, especially keeping in mind the illegal immigration flows from the south and elsewhere. the russian side should secure full control over its borders, just as the european union must exercise thorough border checks. the future visa waiver agreement must exclude any additional threats to the european union. madam commissioner, i very much look forward to your response.
in writing. i share the rapporteur's view that european cohesion policy is one of the most important policies to help increase the competitiveness of regions and ensure sustainable development. as all european regions were negatively affected by the global financial crisis to a greater or lesser extent, the added value of cohesion policy is certainly very important in ensuring that regions emerge stronger from the impact. it is sad that many eu governments do not fully understand the role and importance of the regions local authorities , for fear of losing their power to the regions. for example, in my home country, the government of the republic of estonia, often adopts important laws concerning local governments without involving the local governments in the decision-making processes. in order to avoid discrimination between regions, greater attention should be paid to monitoring the actions of member states' governments to ensure that they do not act in a way that is contrary to their own laws and european values. it is true that many european regions have already received a great deal of political support through the committee of the regions of the european union, the european court of justice and the commission in cases where national governments have ignored the rights of local authorities. i believe that an effective european cohesion policy and the achievement of the objectives set out in the directive will help to ensure the vitality of regions, but that viable regions increase the vitality of the european union as a whole and help to avoid the marginalisation of border regions.
in writing. – i would like to use this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for shedding light on such an important issue. the lisbon treaty has redefined competences and responsibilities in many fields, and among them made the charter of fundamental rights legally binding. the european parliament has been acting as watchdog of fundamental rights and the lisbon treaty has consolidated the fact. i very much support the notion of enhancing the role of the european parliament with regard to a systematic approach to legislative proposals and amendments. while we are critical of human rights violations around the world, we must apply the same scrutiny to what is going on within the borders of the european union. there is no reason to be overly pleased, as we receive signals of racism, xenophobia, sexism and other forms of discrimination in the member states far too often. the work ahead of us remains vast, but i am more than sure that consistent work on upholding fundamental rights in the eu will help us prevail.
president of the commission. − first of all, the substantive issue that we have addressed is that freedom of expression, in all its forms, is not only a fundamental human right, but the cornerstone of all democratic societies. it is not negotiable. at the same time, it is also clear that there is information, be it private, commercial or legal, which by its very nature is sensitive and cannot be accessible to the wider public. data protection is also anchored in fundamental rights. all our member states have rules that protect data and some kinds of sensitive information for the sake of the public, and this is our position in terms of freedom of expression and data protection. regarding accusations against a specific person, i am not a tribunal. also the commission is not supposed to make comments on specific accusations against specific individuals because the commission is not, and is not to supposed be, a tribunal and does not make presumptions as to the culpability of a specific individual.
the new nato concept calls for coordinating national cyber defence capabilities to bring all nato bodies under centralised cyber protection. how do you see the european commission’s role in better coordinating our national cyber defences, which are on various levels, and enhancing cooperation with nato? will, for example, baroness ashton take up some cyber security issues that are covered by defence policies? do you need more joint eu research to define a comprehensive answer at european level to cyber challenges?
madam president, the financial crisis has indicated that there is an even greater need for more europe. the lesson to be learned is that acting predominantly on the basis of national considerations does not help any member state. tomorrow, therefore, is an occasion for joint action, fiscal consolidation and a stability pact with sanctions. this will also be the time to solve the long-standing paradox of europe. the eu is based on a single market but this single market is still not complete. now is the time to start the single digital market. we need to set up a permanent crisis management mechanism, preferably group-based. secondly, as action should be led on prevention and early intervention, there is a need to better harmonise conditions for early intervention and for activating the crisis-management mechanisms, whilst avoiding, of course, over-regulation. thirdly, the purpose of crisis-management funds should be clearly defined. their goal is to ensure macro-financial stability. they should not be used to solve other current problems. fourthly, supervisory rights should be defined more precisely at eu level, such as in the case of possible intervention into the activities of financial institutions, which will include the right to stop paying dividends or stop activities that pose unjustified risks.
for the verts/ale group i am very happy that this dispute, which until a while ago seemed like an unfinished story, will be resolved today. like the foxtrot with our beloved european external action service, it took too long. a slow foxtrot can make your back hurt and your partner disappointed. but our partners are none other than our citizens. i hope this new form of democracy succeeds and we don't disappoint our citizens' expectations. for me, the saddest thing about the debate was the distrust of citizens, which is all too often expressed, the fear that citizens will come forward with initiatives that are important. that's unfounded fear, we'll see. and i would also like, mr šefčovič, that the commission should have more confidence in its citizens. as estonia's representative, i would also like to thank the council for keeping the digital signature option in the bill, because it is fundamental for our people. the creative initiatives of european citizens are eagerly awaited. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. – how to bring europe closer to citizens and how to bring citizens closer to europe is one of the main issues under discussion probably since the beginning of the european community. the convention on the future of europe worked out the basis for the current lisbon treaty and also laid the ground for the mechanism for the citizens’ initiative. we now have this on our tables in concrete form, and in the very near future all citizens in the eu will have the possibility to bring issues important to them to the attention of european decision-makers. this initiative is one of the strongest measures for uniting citizens in europe – an initiative which requires joint action, cooperation, coordination and the will to work together for a common european goal. every voice in society matters, but only a united voice can make a real difference. i call upon the commission and the member states to promote this initiative and to ensure that it is easily accessible for everyone. i especially welcome the proposal for joint hearings with the commission and parliament. it is highly important that the directly elected european parliament is closely involved and follows the concerns and issues of citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposed amendments by the ep to the citizens’ initiative, as i believe that they make the initiative stronger and enable more people to participate. this is a historic moment in which european citizens are being given a concrete measure for bringing important issues and topics to eu level. i urge the commission to take note of the amendment asking for easy procedures and transparent information for citizens. it is one thing to create such a mechanism, but it also has to be accessible and understandable to eu citizens in order to enable them to make full use of it. parliament is seeking an easing of the criteria with regard to signatories by asking that they should come from at least a fifth, rather than a third, of the member states. it is also calling for the creation of an easily accessible, free-of-charge online collection system for signatures. i would especially like to underline the need to convene citizens’ committees to organise initiatives. the citizens’ committees movement was one of the most important factors that led to the renewed independence of estonia in 1991. this is a clear sign that citizens together can bring down walls.
madam president, although the report encompasses many significant issues, i would just like to touch upon the case of sergei magnitsky. his tragedy represents a great number of similar cases that have not come to our attention yet. it is essential to make it very clear to the russian authorities that such incidents must be investigated in compliance with the principle of the rule of law. instead, the investigators and prosecutors involved in the death of sergei magnitsky have been promoted and rewarded. such a course of action is simply an incredible perversion of justice, and the european union and its member states must not close their eyes to this. we should bear in mind the international commitments of the russian federation. therefore, colleagues, i encourage you to support amendment 25, which proposes to impose sanctions on 60 russian officials involved in the case until a proper investigation of the death of sergei magnitsky is conducted.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has today taken the necessary sanctions against russian officials associated with the trial and death of magnitsky. russia, a state which is not a state of law and in which human rights are violated every day, does not deserve the attention that france pays to it. as such, i strongly condemn and regret the sale by france to russia of the french warship of the mitral class.
madam president, anders fogh rasmussen, secretary-general of nato, stated that the nato-russia council summit which took place in lisbon provided a historic impulse to improving nato-russia relations, which i very much welcome. although the nato-russia council heads of state and government agreed on a joint ballistic missile threat assessment and decided to resume missile defence cooperation, president medvedev announced after the summit that russia will take part in the envisaged joint missile defence system only as an equal and fully fledged partner involved in information exchange and resolving whatever problems. i would like to point out that equal partners must take equal responsibilities. there are some significant differences between nato and russia when defining security. while russia perceives classical military threats to security, nato on the other hand emphasises the lack of democracy and violation of human rights as a security threat. in order for russia to be more closely involved in joint projects within the framework of nato, i would expect russia to mainstream democracy, human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law. to have an equal partnership, nato and russia must be on an equal footing on such relevant issues.
madam president, enlargement of nato could be seen as one of the few true post-cold war success stories. however, the momentum of enlargement has weakened. nato has remained rather hesitant in opening up to georgia or macedonia. military contributions have decreased alarmingly. very few nato members meet the 2% criteria for defence expenditure and the alliance has not conducted serious military exercises for more than one decade. the last such big exercise to prove that the us could move troops rapidly into europe took place 17 years ago. true, the soviet union has collapsed. however, nato’s credibility and potential still relies on us military might. it is vitally important that nato’s military institutions remain well integrated and that military commanders from america and europe have the possibility to practice together. only under conditions of much closer and more determined transatlantic cooperation will the eu and nato be able to set a democratic international agenda over the next decade against the challenges of a multilateral world. i would also like to comment on the conclusions of the nato-russia council. it calls for a modernised partnership based on reciprocal confidence, transparency and predictability. it may be taken as a declaration of goodwill. however, we know that russia’s military doctrine still views nato expansion into russia’s neighbourhood as an aggression and justifies preventive military strikes and landings on foreign territories. big military exercises in autumn 2009 in north-west russia close to the territories of the baltic states prepared for invasion of these states as a counter-attack, presumably against nato actions. what is positive is that the baltic states finally got nato contingency plans for their defence, as exposed also by wikileaks. georgia was invaded by russia and two of its autonomous territories practically annexed. just recently, russia’s missiles were deployed in these breakaway entities and russia continues massive spying in all western countries. when these spies are exposed, it is the west that feels embarrassment, not russia, which decorates its spies openly with the highest state awards. therefore, russian insistence on equality in relations with nato and some sort of joint decision-making is premature and carries a risk of a russian veto on nato’s decisions and further enlargement.
madam president, i also supported amendment no 25, especially the second part where the european parliament suggests considering ‘imposing an eu entry ban for russian officials involved in this case, and encourages eu law enforcement agencies to cooperate in freezing bank accounts and other assets of these russian officials in all eu member states’. i think that this is an absolutely crucial issue for both russia and the european union, and i strongly encourage the commission and the council to follow the advice of the european parliament. the powers of the european parliament have recently been increased. it is now time to stop declaring and act instead, causing real pain and trouble to those responsible for human rights offences. i think russian and european union cooperation can only have real prospects if a transparent solution is found to the magnitsky and khodorkovsky cases and those responsible are punished.
