mr president, i find it strange that there has been talk here of visibility and of questioning the motives of the united states, because it is precisely now that help is needed. i think it is particularly tragic that even now there are people in the rubble who could still be saved. anything that can be done to make it happen, we should do. when the european union's foreign and security policy, including its defence policy, was once equipped with crisis management forces, i was told, at least in finland, that crisis management forces were also for natural disasters, that crisis management forces could help when there were such natural disasters in the world and, of course, in europe. but now the crisis management forces are actually doing nothing across europe. they have nothing to do. fortunately, europe is not in crisis, so they have nothing to do. what is the reason why such crisis management forces, if requested, should not be used in these crises?
mr president, mr commissioner, the current iranian regime is committing flagrant violations of human rights and is trampling on the fundamental freedoms of its citizens. the latest example of this is the killing of eight people on ashura, and five opposition figures are currently awaiting the death penalty. the current iranian regime is the greatest threat to world peace. it is absolutely incomprehensible that the international community should stand by and watch the iranian regime develop a military nuclear weapons programme in peace and not pay any attention to the iaea. the current leadership of the country is allowed to publicly threaten to destroy another un member, israel, and to support the hezbollah terrorist group operating in lebanon and syria. in some ways, these events are reminiscent of moments 60 years ago. we need not wonder what we might have done differently in history to prevent the outbreak of human hatred. today, by taking effective action, we can prevent such an event from occurring. targeted economic sanctions against the iranian regime must be initiated as soon as possible. in this situation, it is better that the eu delegation to iran was prevented from travelling, because the trip would only be used for the propagandistic purposes of the mullahs. let us remember, again, that the problem is not so much the abundance of evil as the silence of good.
for the verts/ale group mr president, mr watson is quite right in saying that the european parliament has demanded from the outset that the european arrest warrant be accompanied by clear minimum standards of criminal proceedings. we are now seeing in many member states the problems that arise from the fact that the european arrest warrant is built on sand. it is indeed built on sand, because it is assumed that member states should be able to rely on each other's legal systems, on the fact that the rule of law, the fair trial norms of the core human rights treaties, are actually being implemented in the different member states. like my colleagues here before me, i can tell you stories of how that is not the case and how urgent it is that the commission should act as my colleague has just suggested. we must have a single body in which the minimum rights of criminal proceedings are advanced. i believe that the lisbon treaty will also give us this opportunity, because now the european parliament is a full-fledged legislator alongside the council, and it was very pleasing to hear commissioner barrot express his confidence in this cooperation between the commission and parliament. the commission and parliament must now be the axis of power which really overcomes the opposition of those member states which have not wanted to move forward on this matter. i promised that i too would tell the story of what happens when the rule of law is not respected and the european arrest warrant is complied with. a chechen couple, hadižat and malik gataev, are currently in detention in finland. they come from lithuania, where for many years they ran an orphanage for children who were victims of the chechen war, and in any case, in chechnya, the security police intervened on the grounds that something very minor had possibly happened in this family, perhaps mainly related to domestic violence, so really nothing, for example, serious abuse. now this couple is in finland. they are seeking asylum and the lithuanian state is demanding the extradition of this couple. this transfer will be heard next monday in the helsinki court of appeal. what is the proper course of action in this situation? because the starting point is that finland should be able to rely on the fact that in lithuania this couple will receive a fair trial. we have very strong evidence that this has not really been the case, and i would say that we have many such everyday examples of how the european arrest warrant is really a blank slate. we must be able to make progress on this, mr commissioner, honourable member of the presidency, because otherwise we cannot build the trust between the member states that is so necessary when criminal justice cooperation is being carried out.
for the verts/ale group mr president, the copenhagen outcome is a disappointment for the reasons already listed. for the first time, a un document mentions a two-degree limit, but the emission limits that various countries announced in copenhagen correspond to global warming of more than three degrees. the last time it was three degrees warmer, sea levels were tens of meters higher than they are now. it must be admitted in all honesty that the eu has not shown the leadership that we claim. the most important way to lead would have been and is to tighten our emissions reduction targets to at least 30%. our real target should be -40 percent if we're really in line with the climate science message. if we now stop at a 20% cut in emissions, it means that the eu has meant absolutely nothing when it declared a two-degree limit for over a decade. according to numerous studies, including those of the dutch government, a 20 percent reduction in emissions is far from the most ambitious in the world. the 30% reduction target, in the light of current knowledge, costs less than the estimated 20% cut two years ago. of course, there were countries in copenhagen who wanted to torpedo the result. if the eu were to lead, it would make this difficult for them. now the eu has made it easy for them by rejecting the second commitment period of kyoto, which is of the utmost importance for developing countries. it would be constructive to say that we are ready for the second period of kyoto on those terms and conditions, and it would be constructive to commit ourselves to financially supporting climate action in developing countries without recycling development funds under a new heading. we must now move from this slim result to a proper climate agreement. it can only be internationally legitimate if negotiated through the un. we also need a new kind of climate diplomacy. it's not enough for our experts to know the jungle of technical details. we need patient diplomatic work to overcome the stumbling blocks and also to make the un negotiating process functional again, for example by introducing voting rules.
mr president, the copenhagen climate summit was a perfect pancake. i voted against that resolution in december. i was right, as were 92 others here. the european union has very arrogantly set out to offer its own model to the whole world. a few days before that, €5 billion in emissions trading was exposed. it was a shame that just before the summit, when the eu is offering the world a bailout, the misuse of five billion was in sight. this was shameful, and is the eu now at all concerned that these abuses are being investigated? when emission limits are set, the specific emissions system should be used, as in cars. it works, but in no case should finland or the eu countries try to drive down their own steel, metal and wood processing industries. it is useless; the worker and the employee are not to be beaten. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, the next steps from copenhagen should improve the position and negotiation abilities of the united nations. we should facilitate the un to start negotiating on the high-level segment with the heads of state and then to continue drafting in detail with civil servants in the way it is done in the g8 or g20. the eu has the interest and capability to push this kind of change through in the un system. secondly, my wish and hope for the council and for the new commission is that now with the new lisbon treaty the core issue in our foreign policy would be dealt with by the trio of the president of the commission, the high representative and the climate change commissioner and allow for negotiation on the basis of a single negotiated text.
in writing. mr president, i have been listening to this torrent of complaints about the poor result in copenhagen with a paralysis. i cannot say: it is time for the eu to wake up to reality. we must put an end to the delusion that the eu has been a leader or that it could become one. let's be honest, our ineffective and expensive strategy is not going to appeal to anyone. i would also say this to the future climate commissioner. the copenhagen summit has come and gone, but why does hedegaard still believe that the eu is the leader and the global leader in climate policy? it hasn't been for a while. 'follow me, i'll follow you' is the scoliotic paradox the eu has created for itself. with this self-deception, the eu continues its climate policy which is miserable and destroys jobs in the cleanest industries. those who followed the climate debate at all knew long ago that the eu's prescriptions were not going to get us an international agreement. the us, china and japan have chosen a railway that has abandoned the un-led model with its negotiated emission ceilings and timetables. they directly impact on the reduction of carbon intensity and new technology, which in time also manifests itself in a consistent reduction of emissions. however, this method does not expose the economy and jobs to bureaucracy, unfair competition and unpredictable price fluctuations. in europe, they're exposed. by acting differently, the eu is left alone and exacerbates the distress of its enterprises. it's a shame that no one benefits from this, least of all the citizens. it is not good for the environment either if the cleanest industry in the world is subject to sanctions on emissions trading that no other industry is. it is time for the eu to reconsider its line and stop the politics of fantasy.
mr president, commissioner rehn, you have been the bearer of a very challenging portfolio in the previous commission, and that task will certainly not be easy again. the democratic process in turkey has suffered serious setbacks in recent times, and the situation of the kurds is not the only cause for concern. the situation of children and women needs to be improved, especially in rural areas. turkey has been delaying for years in protecting the rights of religious minorities such as the alawites and christians. the patriarchy has already been brought into the picture. the orthodox have experienced discrimination and there are now thought to be only about 3,000 of them in turkey. it is a very incomprehensible legislation that orthodox priests, bishops and patriarchs must be turkish citizens. the patriarch is the head of the worldwide church, so he must be able to be chosen from any member church. similarly, the churches should be guaranteed protection of their assets, and illegally seized property must be returned. in support of the opening of the priestly seminary in halk, a list of names has been compiled here in the house in a written statement. most recently, president barack obama has been pleading for the opening of halki's seminary. if turkey were to protect the human rights of the christian minority in this way, it would set an extremely fine example for other muslim countries to guarantee christians the same rights as christian countries guarantee their own muslim minorities. mr commissioner, we often ask here whether turkey is ready for the eu. i think the eu should honestly ask itself whether we are really prepared to take on turkey. you also said that the journey is as important as the destination. it must be remembered that the development of democracy in turkey is not as important to the eu as it is to turkey's own citizens. that's why it's good to continue this journey, even if we disagree on the destination.
the author. - mr president, it is regrettable that there are so many different conflicts in the world that take the form of religions. in this context, it must be said that there are very diverse fundamentalist currents in the world, along with christianity, islam and many other religions. i have personally observed less of this kind of fundamentalist tendencies in buddhism, but it is important that the european parliament takes a stand every time such violence occurs between religious groups. i would like to say, however, that yesterday parliament was informed that 33 human rights defenders were arbitrarily detained when they went to support the coptic christians referred to in this resolution, who were subjected to violence. i would now like to say to the egyptian authorities that we must ensure that this does not prevent people from taking part in the defence of others. it is necessary to demand that human rights defenders should not be imprisoned or unfairly treated under any circumstances. in this case, what happened was that these 33 coptic defenders were treated inhumanely in prison. they were in inhuman conditions. i hope that in future parliament will always pay attention to violence against any religious group, and not only to persecution of christians. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, we have heard from various sources disturbing reports of crimes against christians in egypt and malaysia. as regards malaysia, i would first of all like to express our deep concern at the attacks on churches in a traditionally tolerant and moderate country. secondly, i would like to highlight the exemplary work of islamic ngos in the field of religious tolerance. statements by the malaysian prime minister regarding the use of the word allah encouraged public discontent with christian communities. however, the exemplary attitude of islamic ngos and the firm public stance on the minister's statements have calmed the situation. it is a pity that we were not able to include it in our final resolution, because we think that we have too seldom taken positive aspects into account here. shouldn't we also thank muslims when we have something to thank them for? religious tolerance must be promoted both by those in political power and at the grassroots level. it is equally important to be aware of failures as it is to be aware of and to support progress.
i am particularly concerned about the situation in egypt, mr president, because of the historical, ethnic and political background to it. true, coptic christians are still a sizable minority. in egypt, about 10 percent, eight million, are coptic christians, and because they are the former majority, they are proud of this and also of the eastern christian tradition. that is why the provocation at the christmas party last january was particularly blatant and deliberate. in addition, many copts have been forced to change their religion by force, and there have been rapes and other incidents. the situation in egypt is a very bad example for other countries with the potential for a similar cycle of retaliation, and it is for this reason that the eu must be vigilant and must intervene immediately and emphasise peaceful inter-religious dialogue.
the author. - mr president, what is significant about liu xiaobo is that up to 10 000 people have openly expressed their support for him, and i think that the european parliament should acknowledge and commend the courage of these people. at the same time, we must remind you that china itself has made promises to improve the human rights situation. china sought membership of the un human rights council, saying it would be committed to the promotion and protection of human rights and that china would uphold the highest standards of human rights. so these are china's own promises to the un and these are the ones we have to refer to. this resolution also talks about the eu-china human rights dialogues, and as much as we would like to be optimistic, the end result is that these human rights dialogues have not been very fruitful. we must also consider, within the institutions of the european union, how we can improve our own strategy, how we can make china understand that its commitments on human rights are our common concern and that the future of our cooperation depends decisively on them. finally, we can ask why the european union's policy towards china is so fragmented and inconsistent, and what can we do about it? the european parliament will certainly support the commission in its efforts to achieve a new strategy with china.
mr president, it is intolerable that commercial interests have taken a longer lead in eu-china relations and that demands for respect for human rights and the development of democracy have been reduced to a mere polite greeting. i've been following google's boldness and plans to stop cooperating with the chinese authorities on filtering and censoring websites, and even leave the country, with interest. at the same time, google is making a very visible case for freedom of speech for chinese internet users. i share the concern of my colleagues about the treatment of liu xiaobo and other chinese prisoners of conscience and i hope that the council and the commission will raise the issue of xiaobo at the next eu-china summit. the agreements currently being negotiated should reflect a more effective link between the development of trade relations with china and political dialogue and respect for human rights.
in writing. – ‘don’t be evil’ is the well-known motto of google. there has been criticism regarding their policy in china over the years, questioning the motto. human rights groups have accused google of helping the chinese government in repressing its citizens and particularly human rights activists. apparently google will be less evil in the future. their decision to start to operate an unfiltered search engine in china deserves the warmest congratulations. by announcing the change in their china policy, google risks profits from the biggest internet market in the world and potentially abandons almost 400 million users. in this particular case google has proved that a big multinational company can really stick to its ethics policy. having its founders still aboard directing the company, google has every chance of reflecting its core values and beliefs in its every action in the future. and, if google continues to prosper, it will prove that there is no inherent conflict between making money and acting in a sustainable and human way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as of the beginning of this year, the eu sulphur directive sets a limit of 0.1% sulphur content for fuel in ships calling at ports and in inland waterways. this is good from an environmental point of view. it is important that shipping in particular should also be developed in an increasingly environmentally friendly direction. at present, transport and shipping at sea is mainly based on so-called heavy oil. in the baltic sea we have already been using low-sulphur oil at 0.5% for many years to protect the environment. low sulphur levels at sea are not considered to be an environmental problem, since the main objective has been to reduce so-called urban pollution. this is the line i think the eu should take on this issue, namely to go for low-sulphur heavy oil. the challenge is that the imo's so-called marpol convention recommends a limit of 0.1 percent for all ships in the baltic sea from 2015 onwards, which could have devastating consequences for the baltic sea. i would therefore like to remind you of this and encourage you not to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
(introduction without the microphone) ... at a time when tax revenues are falling worldwide, this directive is very welcome. in a single market we absolutely cannot accept the current situation where taxable income can be hidden and become untaxed in another member state. as already mentioned, eu countries lose billions of euros in tax revenues each year because of a lack of information exchange between member states. it is also good to remember that while some withhold their income and thus taxes, all of us pay more taxes instead. it's hardly supposed to be like that, at least not in my opinion. it is surprising that some defend the current system that actually allows people to evade their taxes. i understand that some member states have a lot to lose, but is that really a credible argument? no, it's not that. we should promote international tax cooperation and develop common standards to prevent tax fraud at both eu and global level. at the same time, i would like to remind you that there are those who think that this matter of privacy protection is important and that it is being handled in an adequate manner. it is good to remember this, because otherwise the system we are building will have no credibility in the eyes of the citizens, which is a prerequisite for our success.
mr president, i think it has been painfully clear in this economic crisis that we either fail separately in the eu or we succeed together. it has been a very long process to get to the point where we might really have proper automatic exchange of information concerning taxation issues in the eu and full transparency, with effective administrative cooperation between the officials and nation states. while we are asking the private sector – the banks – to be more transparent and more reliable after the financial crisis, i really do think that we need to urge it of our nation states and ourselves as well. i therefore welcome the steps that have been taken here, but there is a long way to go. i urge the commission to be very ambitious and very strong concerning international cooperation, in order to have an international agreement on tax havens and automatic exchange of information.
mr president, the proposals before us have done a good job of facilitating the fight against tax fraud and improving cooperation between the authorities. we should remember that taxation is never an intrinsic value but is a tool of society to achieve politically agreed objectives, such as equitable income distribution, taxation of harmful activities and providing the economic basis for the implementation of common welfare services. a sound tax system is based on a fair and broad tax base and a reasonable level of taxation. tax evasion and fraud eat away at the tax base, leaving honest citizens and businesses to pay the necessary taxes for the fraudsters. as we have heard here, public finances are currently in crisis throughout europe. tax fraud and tax evasion further weaken public finances by some eur 200 billion a year. we really can't afford this. a few comments on the reports themselves. when considering ways of combating vat fraud, the principles of cost-benefit, legal certainty and proportionality should be taken into account. the david casa report makes a very good point of these points. it is appropriate to focus in particular on goods and services susceptible to fraud in the fight against vat fraud, and the reverse charge mechanism allows those member states to apply the reverse charge mechanism by way of derogation from the main principle of the vat directive. administrative cooperation, on the other hand, can complement national legislation, but it must be remembered that it can never replace or approximate it. perhaps the most controversial aspect of the directives in question has been the exchange of information. the smooth exchange of information between the customs and tax authorities of the member states helps to combat abuses and therefore, in my view, the exchange of tax information should be encouraged rather than prevented. finland's tax records are public and the country is one of the least corrupt in the world. i therefore cannot see the automatic exchange of tax information as a threat to civil liberties as some of my colleagues do.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr tarabella for his excellent report on equality between women and men in the european union. the inequality between women and men on the labour market is reflected in the fact that women still earn 80 cents a euro for the same job. the means to achieve equal pay already exist and now is the time to put them into practice. among other things, the assessment of the requirements of the job should be made compulsory and the salary should be determined on the basis of it. employers should be sanctioned if they do not have a proper equality programme in place. women should not have to face a glass ceiling in their careers and career stagnation because of gender. both the business and public sectors need to pay more attention to increasing the proportion of women in senior positions. when the european commission is set up, each member state should propose both a man and a woman as commissioners. as the report states, equality between women and men in working life is also linked to problems of reconciling work and family life. the development of public services to facilitate care arrangements and the extension of parental leave schemes are ways of closing the gap between women and men in the labour market. the european union needs social regulation. the eu has already started work towards a more equal europe; the position of european women has been greatly improved by eu legislation. the union is moving in the right direction on equality, but as things do not happen by themselves, a stronger social dimension of the eu is needed in the future to ensure a more equal and social union.
mr. president, we are commemorating the winter war in finland. seventy years ago, the communist soviet union attacked tiny finland. we were fighting for our independence and our right to self-determination. this continued through world war ii, which was a test of the horrors of all europe. that leaves us with a strong will to be independent, a strong will to decide our own affairs. helsinki, moscow and london were the only capitals not occupied in world war ii. that is why i want each nation to be free to decide its own affairs. as far as the commission is concerned, you certainly have good intentions, and you have good people in the commission, for example, the finnish olli rehn, a moral man with a backbone. but where have the peoples of europe - the finns, germans, britons, danes - been able to vote and elect these commissioners? nowhere. how can they be separated? no, not at all. the eu is a bureaucracy, not a democracy. i'm all for cooperation between independent states. i am finnish, i am european, i love our continent, but that does not mean that i am a supporter of the european union. we each got one vote, i got 130,000 votes in finland. how many votes have the commissioners received and where? they may get 300 votes here, but that's it. what is the essence of democracy? it's the sovereignty of the people. it means and signifies that only a nation which forms its own independent nation from other nations has the eternal and unlimited right to decide its own affairs freely and at all times. this is the basics. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, the commission has undoubtedly been sitting for too long. the future historian will surely wonder how it is possible to spend six months on the composition of the commission when we are living in the deepest recession in european economic history. but i believe that this process has, on the whole, empowered, strengthened, empowered both the commission and parliament. i am therefore surprised at the greens who have unanimously decided to vote against the new commission, especially since they themselves have stated many times that they have gained a lot during this process and that their objectives have been accepted. i think this is, quite frankly, extreme populism. the functioning of the internal market and a social europe are like sister and brother and they go hand in hand. it is very important that social impact assessment is a step towards a social europe.
for the verts/ale group mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, the us high representatives whom you mentioned also met us, the members of the european parliament, during their recent visit to brussels. parliament can of course play a key role in encouraging member states to seek a common policy on the closure of guantánamo. it is quite clear that guantánamo remains a flagrant symbol of injustice and that its closure is in the interests of the european union. we expressed this view, which was also expressed by the european parliament in its resolution of february last year. we also told them that we do not want to discuss just the placement of the guantanamo prisoners, but at the same time we want to discuss with the united states that their prison policy, their criminal law, requires a really profound reform to bring it into line with the principles of the rule of law. i would hope, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, that you would take this seriously and use these discussions with the american representatives in the dialogues you mentioned. finally, i would like to stress that the european union itself must settle accounts with these secret detention centres. i would like to refer to the important work done by mr coelho in the previous term. we must continue this work, because the european union has not yet, to date, clarified the role of its member states in these secret detentions and detention centres in the european union.
mr president, mr czarnecki may not know that on 22 december 2009 a european government admitted for the first time that such a secret detention centre had been established on its territory. this was after a committee of the lithuanian parliament found that such a cia prison had been operating in lithuania under the war on terror. i am pleased to note that the lithuanian government has taken very strong action in response to this revelation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, with regard to cites decision-making, i am a firm believer that the decision-making procedure should be transparent and it should be purely based on sound scientific facts. that is behind parliament’s resolution concerning polar bears, elephants, tigers, big asian cats and sharks. with particular regard to the question of listing bluefin tuna on appendix i of the cites convention, i would like to raise a couple of issues. firstly, a broad majority of the scientific community agrees with the need for a ban on international trade to ensure the future existence of the species. according to iccat, the current spawning stock biomass is less than 15% of what it was before fishing began. from these scientific estimates it follows that there is a very realistic fear that spawners might become virtually extinct by 2012. a majority of the fao ad hoc expert advisory panel considered that the available evidence supported the proposal to include atlantic bluefin tuna in cites appendix i, and further stated that the listing would at least ensure that recent unsustainable catches in the east atlantic and mediterranean were reduced. due to the fact that the panel needs to take unanimous decisions, and due to heavy resistance from japan, this was not the panel’s final suggestion. however, the view of the unquestionable majority of the panel cannot be disregarded. furthermore, on the basis of scientists’ decisions, it clearly concluded that the criteria for the inclusion of bluefin tuna in the cites appendix i have been met. this is a matter of political opinion in several cases but, on the matter of biodiversity and extinctions, we cannot compromise and we cannot haggle. when there are no fish, there is no catch.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the past, bluefin tuna could actually be caught in my area up in the baltic sea, but we know what the situation is today. the bluefin tuna is threatened with extinction due to intensive overfishing. we are facing this rather dull debate because the right decision was not taken at the right time. we've gotten to this point because for years, we decision-makers have refused to listen to scientific advice. then you're in a situation where you have to take drastic action. i am happy to recall in this context the past failures of mankind on this very front. take the coast of canada as an example of how man has succeeded in completely destroying the cod stock. it collapsed completely because of overfishing, and there was a discussion just like the one we have here today. we're not gonna let that bluefin tuna meet the same fate. that is why the french proposal put forward is not particularly successful, since it could have exactly that effect. the fact that half or almost the whole of the committee on fisheries is sitting here at the moment also shows that the way in which these matters are handled here in the house is not the best way, that is to say, the environment committee discusses and comes to some conclusions, and then we who are concerned with fisheries come here and discuss them. this is something we should think about. regardless, i think the committee's proposal is a good one. it is based on sound scientific evidence and there is no reason to change the way the committee on the environment views this matter.
mr president, amendment 10 by the greens is not in conflict with amendment 1. amendment 1 is about raising our ambition level to more than 20. amendment 10 – our amendment – is about clarifying conditions to minus 40. this is additional to, not in conflict with, amendment 1, so amendment 10 should be voted.
mr president, it is very important that the european union, as the largest economic area, should be strongly involved in helping the disaster area in haiti after the earthquake. earthquakes like this are rarely predictable, they come unexpectedly. so we, the members of the world community, are really being asked where our solidarity is, how we care for our neighbours. as the old saying goes, we are only as strong as our weakest neighbor. the european union's solidarity is now also being measured. we must be strongly involved in caring for those weak neighbours in haiti and ensure that the aid provided through the european union is delivered and is effective, and that this aid and money are evaluated. of course, the member states must be involved, and they are, as well as many christian communities with direct links to the grassroots. this will ensure that aid reaches those who need it.
mr president, it is clear that the situation in iran has only worsened: the demonstrations following the presidential elections, which saw the opposition treated very harshly, the violations of human rights, and the nuclear threat, which is a huge threat in the middle east, first and foremost to israel, but also to the whole of europe. it seems that we in the eu are incapable of talking to iran. perhaps it's because of the differences between cultures, because shiite theology and european humanism, post-enlightenment thought, are very loosely aligned. so we're gonna have to find a new way. in any case, we must be clear and defend the values that are european values also in these interactions. we must also take very strong action to ensure that iran knows what our rules are: democracy, human rights and freedom of expression. now that this resolution has been voted on, it is very important that it be translated into the vernacular languages of persia and arabic, so that everyone can find out what kind of order and guidance the european union wants for that region.
mr president, human trafficking is always an act against humanity. it is very important that we in europe finally take concrete steps against trafficking in human beings. i voted for this resolution, of course, but i am concerned about what it means in practice. is it as if we are appeasing our conscience by making this type of resolution? this is not the way to go, but we need concrete action. trafficking in human beings remains a serious problem also within the european union. we need all possible measures to combat trafficking in human beings, especially children and women. i hope that the european union and the member states will take concrete action and start acting in this respect. as i said, human trafficking is always against humanity and human dignity is an indivisible value. it is something we europeans must defend at all times and under all circumstances.
mr president, i supported amendment no 43, which called for the recent climate scandals to be taken into account. these scandals have far more serious consequences than this house would like to believe. we need to have confidence in independent scientific research, otherwise our policy will be undermined. i've been concerned about climate change for the better part of my ten-year career as a member of the house of representatives. in the context of emissions trading legislation, i have been actively seeking a climate policy for europe that is not only ambitious but also sensible, so that we do not simply move emissions from one place to another. our strategy is bureaucratic and inefficient, we are not pioneers and we should not continue on the old path. the worst part is that the eu is not following what is happening in climate research right now. we've been making panic solutions based on distorted information. the falsification of the ipcc report is such a serious problem that we should demand the resignation of rajendra pachauri as head of the ipcc and reassess what we know about the progress of man-made climate change and the effectiveness of our policy actions in response.
in writing. − according to the haitian authorities, the total loss of life after the earthquake exceeds 230 000 persons. this makes the catastrophe even bigger than the 2004 asian tsunami. after emergency aid, our focus should gradually turn to the long-term development of haiti. being one of the poorest countries in the world, haiti was totally unprepared to confront a catastrophe of this magnitude. i warmly welcome the recent debt-relief pledges to haiti and urge all the donor countries to help with long-term and sustainable reconstruction. finally, some colleagues have questioned baroness ashton’s decision not to visit haiti immediately after the earthquake. their criticism is right if her visit would have resulted in something useful in helping the haitians. if, however, that would have just been a publicity stunt to show that the eu is present, her decision was absolutely right.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on haiti. the human suffering caused by the earthquake in haiti is immense: hundreds of thousands of people have been killed and injured, and port-au-prince has been almost completely destroyed. the estimated number of people in need of external assistance is between 2 and 3 million. while europeans' sympathy is with the families of the victims, it calls for action: the eu's large and rapid commitments to help are of course essential. the networked response of the new foreign affairs administration has rightly been surprising. it is clear that the high representative of the union will be responsible for ensuring that the union's action is more reactive and coordinated. haiti needs help for a long time. we need to heal the wounds and build the houses one by one. the philosopher ludwig wittgenstein put forward the idea that no one can be in greater distress than an individual human being. i think he meant something like this: there is no greater unit of consciousness in the world than the consciousness of one person. i can't even count the pain. there is no consciousness in the world that would suffer more than one. the needs of the masses are always the needs of the individual. there's hope in that, too. mother teresa is reported to have said: "if i had looked at the troops in the past, i would have accomplished nothing". if i can help one person, i'm helping the largest possible unit, the entire world of one person.
mr president, as you will remember, mr barnier, the european parliament has been a straightforward one in opposing the inclusion of gambling in the services directive, because gambling is not just any service, but is associated with the risk of addiction and the social costs that this entails. the integrity of sport is also an important issue for the european parliament to protect, especially now that, thanks to the lisbon treaty, we have the power to take care of it. the more unregulated the gambling activity, the more it becomes a mere means of accumulating gambling profits and exposing it to, for example, money laundering by criminal activity. the commission should propose a solution which takes account of parliament's consistent line of keeping gambling activities, because of their special nature, within the competence of the member states, and suspend infringement procedures. at least a dozen cases are before the european court of justice, the most recent being the liga portuguesa case, but it is still not right that these cases proceed only through judicial settlements or infringement procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of gambling, including the introduction of a new system of gambling licences, the introduction of a new system of gambling licences and the introduction of a new system of gambling licences. the gambling policy must be a logical whole, because online is only a tool, which does not in itself make the gambling policy cross-border. the growth of online activity is not a force of nature that moves unchecked. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i would like to encourage you, commissioner, to draw up a green paper on gambling. it would also provide the means to combat online gambling from outside europe and the problems caused by gambling.
mr president, commissioner, they say that politics is a game, sometimes even a game of chance, but gambling is not really any kind of business or service. there is a very high level of social harm associated with it, which attracts criminal activity. too often and too easily, gambling addiction leads to financial hardship and, as a result, to very serious mental health problems. i would like to refer to the speech by mr stihler, who said that in 2008 it was estimated that there were already some 40 000 gambling addicts in finland. if this ratio is true at eu level, it would mean that there are already over 35 million people in europe who are addicted to gambling, and this is a huge number. i therefore believe that the member states should continue to have the right to decide for themselves how they organise gambling activities in order to minimise any moral and financial damage. we need strict rules of the game, market regulation and public oversight. i would also stress that we should take into account the protection of particularly vulnerable consumers and the dangers of gambling addiction and compulsive behaviour and really fight against the organised crime which seeks to profit from this.
madam president, looking at the positions that the european court of justice, the council, the commission and parliament have taken so far on gambling and betting, i would draw the following conclusions. practically all member states and parliament reject the application of the country-of-origin and mutual-recognition principles in this particular and sensitive area. the court accepts that, as it explicitly expressed once again in its judgment last september. for the commission this judgment means that it loses one of the key arguments that it has used in all infringement cases. member states are free to set their own policy objectives on betting and gambling and define in detail the level of protection they deem appropriate for their citizens. the council and parliament have been working hand in hand for years. in 2006 and 2007 they both agreed on the exclusion of gambling and betting from the services directive and the audiovisual media services directive. the schaldemose report last year built on the work council had done under the french presidency and the same line has continued also under the swedish and the spanish presidency. in the schaldemose report i was responsible for the epp line and i share her view. commissioner, i would like to ask you this: do you share the view that the commission should finally start helping the member states in their fight against all illegal – in other words unauthorised – gambling offers, rather than consume time on questions that have been answered already? if so, how will it be tackled?
in writing. − today i voted against the swift agreement to share banking data with the us for counter-terrorism purposes. this agreement did not go far enough in protecting the people of europe; it needs improved safeguards for data protection. for example with this agreement there is no prior judicial ruling needed to obtain data. data protection is one of our basic fundamental rights. respect for human rights is of paramount importance, and defending them is an integral part of my work in parliament. at the same time i believe we must have measures in place to help in the fight against terrorism working in tandem with the usa; this, however, must not be achieved at the expense of our charter of fundamental rights. this rejection of the swift agreement is a momentous occasion in the european parliament’s history. it sends a clear message: that the european parliament will use its newly bestowed powers from the lisbon treaty in the interests of democracy, by standing up and protecting the rights of its citizens. the commission must show in any future data-sharing agreement with the usa that the correct balance is struck between fighting terrorism and respecting our citizens’ privacy.
mr president, it is rather puzzling that some of my colleagues feel that it would be inappropriate to speak here about one of the most corrupt countries in the world. opponents of president hugo chávez are still in prison, clearly convicted of political reasons. isn't defending this a shameful way of putting your own ideology to shame? venezuelans are also suffering from completely unnecessary power and water cuts in latin america's most energy-rich country. the closure of radio and television stations and the violent suppression of student demonstrations are indications of a totalitarian regime. so why not react? while the media must act in accordance with the law, the closure of various media outlets must be a last resort and must be done only after all the means of the legal process have been exhausted. the accused must also be given the opportunity to defend himself and to appeal against the charge. if the venezuelan government is committed to the rule of law and human rights, it must protect and respect freedom of expression and understand the joys of the important contribution that criticism and transparency make to the rule of law.
mr president, it is intolerable to see the situation in madagascar where the person who seized power by force and who is also ruling his country by brutal means, and whose position has not been recognised by the international community, is in power. that's why i use the word "person", not "president". the majority of the malagasy population lives below the poverty line, 7,000 children suffer from severe malnutrition and the situation is worsening with the political crisis. it is therefore important that we, together with the rest of the international community, increase the amount of humanitarian aid to madagascar. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european police force to combat terrorism and for the establishment of a european police force to combat terrorism. without it, it is difficult to build trust and take steps towards democracy. it is a matter of priority that the four political groups in madagascar sit down to negotiate measures to enable democratic elections to be held this year and that madagascar does not conclude agreements on natural resources until it has a government that has been given a mandate by the people.
mr president, burma is one of the most fragile countries in the world in terms of human rights. the list of human rights violations is endless and the situation does not seem to be improving. we have raised only a few points in our resolution. i feel that the main purpose of this resolution is to make it clear that we are aware of and continue to follow what is happening in burma. it is also appropriate to express our gratitude to thailand for its reversal of its worrying decision to return refugees to burma. i've had several calls in the last week about thailand's announced plan to return. the karenge refugees were threatened with forced labour, torture, possible forced military conscription and land mines in the area from which they fled. it was disturbing to hear that after discussions with human rights organisations and the international community, thailand decided to abandon its return plans over the weekend. i hope that the eu, together with the rest of the international community, can offer assistance to thailand as soon as possible and seek an alternative solution to the situation of the karen refugees.
mr president, this is the year of the tiger, and china is the economic tiger. india is currently a giant construction country and i think that the development of india in particular will have a very big impact on europe. this is precisely why we need a new rhythm, a new opening, which is what europe 2020 is all about. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. these points have been made very well here. i have two questions: how will the implementation of the stability pact be monitored in the future, based on the lessons of this greek tragedy? secondly, what sticks and carrots are going to be used to make the 2020 strategy a success, rather than the lisbon tragedy, because few member states cared about it?
for the verts/ale group mr president, the european union has a very good chance of strengthening the consolidation of international law at the next human rights council. we have heard long lists of important issues from both the council and the commission, but do we have any guarantees that the european union is really putting these issues on the agenda? i would mention, for example, that the goldstone report on violations of international humanitarian law in connection with the war in gaza has had a very mixed reception in the member states. i think we are entitled to some kind of report from the council representative on how the various member states are currently reacting to this important report, which is really key in our efforts to get rid of impunity and to bring all those who are guilty of violations of international humanitarian law and war crimes to justice. secondly, i would also like to mention, as my colleague mr howitt has done, the new report on secret detention centres. the european union must take stronger action against torture and all forms of inhuman treatment in prisons, some of which are secret. we must also be able to face the fact that the member states of the european union have themselves been guilty of such things. we cannot continue in this way, and we must also find out for ourselves. we have a real opportunity to strengthen the international criminal court by taking a strong stand on how the statute of the international criminal court should be amended this spring.
mr president, as members of the european union we must remember what european values are. they are democracy, human rights and freedom of expression, and we must uphold them everywhere. the objective of the goldstone report was to make an impartial inquiry, but unfortunately it failed. this is recognised by all parties involved and reflected in the source material of the report. we must also remember that this was initiated by countries such as cuba, pakistan, egypt and saudi arabia, which do not share the same values as the european union and israel. i am rather shocked by the speeches made by de rossa and de keyser here. i wonder what report you've been reading? if you know, as you know, what kind of civil war there has been between hamas and fatah, how many lives have been destroyed, then we should intervene so that the palestinians find leadership, a common tone, and begin to build their own country, and not just destroy it and also the israeli democratic society by sending rockets there. i would like to say that this report is unfortunately a disgrace in the history of the united nations. we europeans must also remember that gilad shalit, a european, french and israeli soldier, is still being held captive by hamas, and we must act to free him, that is the first step we must take.
for the verts/ale group mr president, the most pressing reason why this matter is now on the agenda is probably the protest at which 40 representatives of the polish union were arrested for peacefully expressing their opinion, which we must of course condemn. the second reason is also topical, and it was already mentioned by mr vigenin: after a long, long break, parliament is sending a fact-finding delegation to minsk tomorrow, and i represent the subcommittee on human rights in that delegation of four people. we have reason to be concerned about the human rights situation in belarus, with problems arising in matters relating to freedom of expression, freedom of the media and freedom of assembly and association. we must demand that belarus abolish the death penalty, and all this improvement in the human rights situation must be a precondition for deepening relations between the european union and belarus. like other colleagues, i believe that civil society has a key role to play in this development.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. for those of us who have worked hard on this green paper and this report, it is a great feeling to have reached the plenary. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, who has done a very good job. our common fisheries policy needs to be reformed. for the liberal group it was important that we take an ecosystem approach when we make the reform. the report's wording is good. at the same time, we are faced with a situation in which we have to deal with serious problems such as the so-called discards, the enormous overcapacity in the regions and much more. it is therefore gratifying that we have been able to agree on measures to this effect. because who really thinks that the eu's drafting policy can be justified? i'm not the one. another important issue is the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy. it is important that decisions can be taken and applied at regional level, where the situation is so different in different parts of europe. another welcome reform is the idea of introducing a specific approach to small-scale coastal fishing. these are also questions which we have raised in the report by the liberal group. as a finn and a baltic sea resident, i am also pleased to see the report on measures to combat over-population of seals and herring. this is one of the main threats to fisheries in the baltic sea. finally, i would like to mention the fisheries agreement with third countries. it is important that our policy on this point goes hand in hand with the human rights policy pursued by the eu. the agreement with guinea is a good example where parliament voted against the agreement, and this shows the way forward. i am pleased to note that the reform has come this far. we have a good green paper and i am convinced that we will have a much better fisheries policy from 2013 onwards.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good rapporteur, the european union's common fisheries policy has been guiding fishing activities in the community and in the territorial waters of third countries for decades. unfortunately, the common fisheries policy is one of the eu's biggest failures and has led to a situation that is rightly described as a crisis. the situation of fish stocks is alarming: two thirds of the eu's commercially exploited fish stocks have collapsed. the fishing industry is facing major problems as profitability is declining and flocks are disappearing. in addition to overfishing, illegal fishing is destroying fish stocks at an accelerating rate. the crisis has been built on a long-standing indifference to the accumulating problems of overfishing and illegal fishing. in addition, destructive fishing practices also destroy other marine environments. the most harmful means are bottom-dwelling. the eu must take the crisis in fish stocks seriously. the extra-eu dimension is also closely linked to this, as the union imports almost one third of the fish traded in the region from outside the union. the renewal of fisheries partnership agreements on a more sustainable basis is an integral part of the new common fisheries policy. the key elements of the reform are the decommissioning of fishing vessels and increased controls to combat illegal fishing. the commission's green paper proposes that the ecosystem and the precautionary principle be taken into account as the cornerstones of the reform of the fisheries policy. the policy must focus on a truly sustainable fishing for each species, for which each population needs its own management and conservation strategy. the union must also be prepared to take measures, if necessary, to ensure the recovery of the stock, if necessary by means of a total ban on fishing and trade.
mr president, as mr kastler said, our group would have liked to have had a separate vote on this issue of religious minorities, but unfortunately the majority of this house did not agree. it is worth noting that defending the rights of religious minorities is just as important as defending any other minority. the eu should intervene in the work of the un commission on human rights, which is currently completely paralysed and biased and no longer enjoys the public confidence in the world. the goldstone report is just one example of the way in which the un human rights court has been hijacked for various anti-semitic purposes. so far, 21 of the 25 country-specific opinions of the echr have been on israel, as if israel were the world's greatest human rights violator. the european union must intervene in the work of the un human rights council.
mr president, first of all i should like to say that i voted in favour of the green paper on the reform of the fisheries policy, following the instructions given to our group by our good shadow rapporteur, mr carl haglund. i would like to say, however, that it is very important to pay greater attention to fisheries in the european union and to the state of the waters. that's the big challenge right now. i am particularly concerned that we have quite a lot of unrefined, almost predatory fisheries in the european union, and quantity outweighs quality. we should now start thinking more seriously about how we can build fish stocks in a sustainable way and ensure that we can fish in the future too. the main focus here is on wild salmon and wild fish stocks. a specific programme for the recovery of wild salmon must be drawn up. for example, i come from finland and lapland. we need salmon back in the pond and we need a programme to ensure that the natural salmon stocks can be preserved and strengthened and that they can also be fished healthily in the future.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as we have heard in this house, the so-called tobin tax has been dammed in recent years, the eighth as a result of the economic crisis and the increasingly worrying discussions on climate change. as we also hear, the hopes are relatively high. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. however, i think these hopes are relatively naive and i am rather sceptical about the possibility of introducing a functioning tax on financial transactions. i am one of those who actually doubt that this tax would be practicable, and i doubt that it would actually have the effect that some are hoping for. i am absolutely convinced that no tax in the world could have prevented the financial crisis we have experienced in recent years. i am also personally quite critical of the idea of taxing something and then having these tax revenues diverted to a purpose that is in no way linked to the activity being taxed. i think that is illogical and not a particularly sound tax policy. don't get me wrong. i am one of those who want more money for aid, and i am critical, for example, of my own country, which has not been able to achieve 0.7% of gdp, which can be considered a minimum. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has produced a balanced document on this subject. it is good that a proper study is being carried out at eu level on how such a tax could work. after that, hopefully there will be more facts and less political opinions in this discussion. otherwise, we risk getting stuck in a discussion about a tax that is practically unworkable, while failing to find opportunities and solutions to find adequate funding for development work and efforts to combat climate change. the worst thing that could happen, however, is that the eu, for ideological reasons, would try to impose a financial transaction tax by force, without the rest of the world doing the same. it could only lead to an economic failure for europe and that is hardly what anyone wants in these times. let's keep that in mind. i hope we get a serious and good investigation. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, this new way of discussing is actually quite interesting. it gives us the possibility to have a dialogue. finland, unfortunately, is a country that does not put 0.7% of its gdp into development aid, which is a bad thing. that is something that we should handle politically in our country. it is a shame though that our government has not been able to do that. when it comes to the tobin tax and the financial transaction tax, you are right: it is probably something which is not exactly the way that mr tobin figured it initially. i am still very sceptical as to whether we could actually have a tax that would globally work, with all countries globally coming in, because that is the only way it would actually work without moving capital elsewhere in the world. we will see, however, which is why we have the commission looking at this. it is going to be interesting.
mr president, financial markets are global and financial companies are global; indeed, the financial industry is the biggest global sector at the moment. as our needs are global as well – such as the development agenda, the millennium development goals or tackling climate change – to me it is more than natural that financial transaction taxation should be the first attempt at global taxation. politics is not global; nor, as we know, is it properly european union. someone has to take the lead in tackling the issue, and it is quite naturally the european union’s place to take the lead. usually the one that takes the lead – developing the mechanisms, the models, having the intellectual property – has the leverage, and the advantage of being the first as well. while there are slight benefits in terms of slightly curbing most speculative transactions, in my opinion the biggest benefits relate to entering the new field of taxation, a global mechanism and gathering resources – not so much in the financial sector, but especially for our european and global development and environmental needs. indeed, to be active on this issue, the european union has to have clear thinking, we have to have a united position and that is why i would like to see the commission come forward with a proposal very soon on how to make this ftt workable.
in writing. - mr president, a functioning internal market requires satisfied consumers who have confidence in the market. european consumers are key to our recovery from recession to growth. the reports we have adopted highlight important aspects of the protection of consumers in the union and the improvement of the functioning of the internal market, which were discussed in committee and voted on today. i'll bring up three. firstly, the single market scoreboard has been a welcome tool. its five main indicators are certainly the most important when assessing the functioning of the internal market, also from the point of view of consumers. i support the inclusion in the scoreboard of information on the implementation of internal market legislation in the member states, which is still insufficient. the shell mentality in the implementation of the cream must be eliminated. secondly, i am surprised at the strongly negative attitude of the socialist group to the internal market test of the proposed legislation. this is probably a misconception: the test could also serve specifically to promote social and environmental objectives. that is what the whole process of integration is about: an economy, a functioning internal market, put at the service of higher goals. history has shown the genius of schuman's declaration. thirdly, i will support the development of consumer legal protection measures free of charge. in finland, the out-of-court consumer dispute settlement system and the consumer ombudsman institution function effectively. the commission should establish a close dialogue with the authorities of the member states in order to disseminate good practice. it should be remembered, however, that the strengthening of consumer protection and the internal market always takes place before the authorities' control and judicial protection, and that the consumer himself is vigilant and active.
i am pleased to note, commissioner, that you have read the resolution and are referring to it. it's a good sign, starting your career this way. if the eu is to maintain its leading role in climate protection, we must raise our target to at least -30%, which you have already justified. i would add that the changes brought about by the recession mean that -20% is not really much different from business as usual. if we are to be ambitious, we must narrow our target to at least -30%, preferably -40%. secondly, as parliament did in its last debate, very unanimously...
in writing. mr president, i thank commissioner hedegaard for showing that he understands the fundamental dilemma of climate policy: the eu cannot reduce alone, because then not only will our own results be wasted, but we risk the environment as a whole suffering. if european production cannot survive in europe because of the high cost of emissions trading, and if therefore steel or paper is produced where it is produced with higher emissions than in europe, emissions as a whole will increase. one-sided ambition is not ambition: it is only when we work together on the same playing field that it is easy to tighten the belt considerably. the basis for this requires a different climate strategy, a consistent cut in specific emissions. it's a decarbonization that is independent of economic ratios, that always rewards the reducer, unlike our current emissions trading model. the eu should also update its strategy to reflect the current situation. i ask whether it makes sense to continue trading emissions beyond 2012 when it now seems that there are no emissions trading systems in the world that can be linked to ours. if the allocation and allocation of allowances are not proportionate, it is impossible to avoid distortions of competition. when we started drafting the emissions trading directive less than ten years ago, the whole system was marketed to us as preparation for global emissions trading. we'd gain skills and experience. the experience has certainly come at a cost, and the environmental benefits are by no means clear. emission reductions could be implemented in a manner less prone to market distortions and speculation. does the commission consider that the unilateral continuation is justified?
mr president, this report deals with the common foreign and security policy in 2008. however, it does not mention what happened on 10 march 2008 when tibetans raised a peaceful protest against the repression of their culture and religion. today we have a guest from tibet, mrs namdrol lhamo, a nun who was confined to drapchi prison for 12 years because she had taken part in a peaceful demonstration and then recorded songs in prison. we should pay tribute to her and to the other courageous tibetans living under the occupation. i met with the dalai lama quite recently, and we came to the conclusion that there is an urgent need for an independent international investigation into what happened in that uprising in lhasa on and around 10 march 2008, because for as long as there is no such investigation china will keep accusing the tibetan government in exile, and the dalai lama, of instigating that uprising and its violent aftermath. according to the tibetan administration in exile, at least 220 tibetans died, many as a result of indiscriminate firing by the police, ill-treatment or torture in prisons. many more are missing. (sustained applause)
mr president, i voted against the goldstone report. i am ashamed that the european parliament adopted this report, albeit by a slim majority, because it was very one-sided and i must say that there was quite a lot of internal conflict in this chamber. i'm just making a comment on one point. more than 600 members of the european parliament voted correctly that hamas is a terrorist organisation. despite the fact that we were almost unanimous in our view that hamas is a terrorist organisation and yet we, or the majority in this chamber, voted in favour of this report and, as it were, approved its actions. all the 8,000 rockets that hamas has launched against israeli civilian centers. i see israel as being under threat, which is why israel had to defend its own civilian population. it is sad that this very one-sided report was adopted, albeit by a small majority. i hope that this serious disgrace will not happen again in the future, but that we europeans will indeed fight for democracy, human rights and freedom of expression and bring democracy to the middle east more strongly.
i think, mr president, that in the situation in belarus it is very important that we europeans remember what our values are. i want to retract this because there was that sad vote on the goldstone report, and in all matters, whether they concern belarus, the middle east, south asia or africa, we must remember what our foundation is. our foundation is democracy, human rights and freedom of expression. this is the legitimacy of the european union as a whole, the european union's community of values which seeks to promote them. in belarus, we must take this message forward. we must ensure that the rights of minorities are respected there, and we must also ensure that religious minorities, who have been subjected to various forms of persecution, are also granted their human rights, their freedom of religion. it is very important for us europeans to take care that we also take the european message to belarus and thereby create a prospect of hope there.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the us secretary of state, hillary clinton, said in an interview some time ago how difficult the job of secretary of state is. he added that "it is a transition from one crisis to another". unfortunately, there is very little time left for future nuclear challenges such as the development of the arctic. you, mr ashton, have certainly experienced the same pain, and we therefore appreciate very much that you are opening up the debate on arctic policy at such an early stage and that you are also going to lapland, which is part of the arctic region, at the weekend, and that you will certainly receive important information there. that arctic treasure chest that is opening up is full of economic opportunities, but it is also full of enormous risks to the environment, to security, to the fate of indigenous peoples. global warming opens up new sea lanes and allows oil and gas resources to be exploited in ways that damage the environment. the swedish international peace research institute (sipri) among others has already published a booklet on china's arctic policy, with the ominous title ice-free arctic, and therefore it is imperative that the european union be active and develop its own arctic strategy. the commission's conclusions that you have presented are very positive in that they do not only see this region as the new eldorado of oil, gas and minerals, but also see the people of the region at the centre, and this is very important. the eu must also be willing to engage in constructive dialogue with indigenous peoples, and in this way the union can become a major player in arctic policy. for example, recent restrictions by parliament on seal hunting angered the indigenous people. the strengthening of the arctic council is very important and should therefore now be directed specifically at russia and canada, so that the european union can have a stronger position there. arctic research is an important area of cooperation and, for example, the university of lapland, where you are going, has an arctic university and certainly when the arctic information centre is set up, as the commission has announced, rovaniemi would be an appropriate place. the european union's own structures must also be strengthened. it seems, unfortunately, that the arctic is falling into the hands of the southern and eastern dimensions in the council, and that is why this arctic window on the northern dimension must now be opened. the commission must clarify the role of each directorate-general and designate, mr ashton, the person responsible for arctic issues.
for the verts/ale group mr president, our attitude to the arctic is a manifestation of the schizophrenia of our culture. on the other hand, we're worried. climate change is occurring in the arctic more rapidly than anywhere else, and the arctic has been likened to a canary in a mine. since 1979, the annual average ice cover of the arctic ocean has shrunk by about 1.5 million square kilometers, an area equal to the combined area of france, italy, spain, and britain. this melting accelerates climate change because it reduces the reflectivity of the earth, or albedo. it releases methane from the tundra and may even release methane from the seabed, which further accelerates climate change. the melting also releases into the environment toxins that have accumulated over decades. at the same time as we are concerned, the rush to the arctic for oil and gas resources has begun. the nations are arguing and negotiating over the distribution of the seabed. much of this rush is ignoring the indigenous peoples. the eu should now be a consistent driver of sustainable development. the eu should curb the glittering images of the euro and the dollar and support the pacification of the arctic through an international agreement similar to the one that protects antarctica and the inclusion of indigenous peoples in all decision-making in the region. at least a 50-year moratorium on the exploitation of the region's fossil resources should be agreed. understandably, the nature of the area is fragile and vulnerable. for example, oil drilling involves much greater difficulties and risks than elsewhere. the maritime sector must also take account of the great difficulties and risks of the region. it is no good putting a few pretty words about the environment and indigenous peoples on the decision-making process, but at the same time taking real action that risks irreversible environmental degradation and violates indigenous rights.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the arctic is an important issue and it has now also come up in this forum. we finns know the arctic conditions. we live there. when high representative ashton goes to lapland, there are people living and working there, and there are also a lot of people living and working north of the arctic circle. in fact, when i go there on sundays to visit, many people there are particularly concerned about work and living, because in a true democracy a person is free to choose where he lives. it can also live in the arctic. from the economic and research point of view, the university of lapland in rovaniemi is the best place to do this research. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am glad that it has been possible to achieve this. in the future, three things must be considered: nature, animals and people. when these three can all fit into the arctic and in harmony, we will have a sustainable arctic policy and we can also exploit logistics and economics, but with respect for both nature, people and animals.
mr president, let us return to the subject. as many colleagues have said, the race for the resources and management of the arctic is in full swing. however, as the high representative has said here, the arctic needs a comprehensive approach. it must take account of the extreme fragility of the arctic nature, the long-term impact of ice melt and, above all, the rights of the indigenous peoples and people living in the area. the un convention on the law of the sea and the fisheries convention have so far been sufficient to regulate the arctic sea area and the resources of the seabed. the arctic council, for its part, has focused on environmental and research cooperation, but alongside agreements focusing on the exploitation of these natural resources, there has been an undeniable need to develop international management of the region, and the eu can also play a role in this. the eu's arctic policy also needs its own strategy and joint coordination. the appropriate way for the eu to participate in arctic activities would be to establish an arctic centre. this need for an eu arctic information centre was first raised in the commission's arctic communication in autumn 2008 and, following the council's call, the commission started to explore the establishment of such an arctic information centre on the union territory. the arctic centre of the university of lapland, located in rovaniemi, finland, has expressed its willingness to act as such an information centre. finland has no territorial requirements for the exploitation of natural resources and would therefore be well suited to lead the centre as a neutral actor, as president walliskin has encouragingly stated. i therefore urge commissioner ashton to decide on the form, location and tasks of the eu arctic centre, thus raising the profile of the eu in arctic policy, and i wish you a good trip to lapland.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you very much, mr ashton, for bringing this important matter to the agenda at such an early stage. i really hope that the commission and the european union as a whole will take a strong role in this arctic policy and form their own arctic strategy. the common arctic policy offers enormous opportunities for the european union as a whole, in terms of security, the environment, energy, transport and indigenous peoples. if we as the european union are excluded from this debate, from this policy, we will lose a great deal. i would like to make two further points. firstly, i hope that the arctic council will be further strengthened as an administrative body and that the european union will play a strong role in it. secondly, i hope that the plans for an arctic information centre will be realised and i believe that this will promote dialogue between the arctic regions and, as has already been stated, a good and appropriate place for an arctic information centre would certainly be in lapland and rovaniemi in finland, which already has very strong traditions in arctic affairs.
in writing. − mr president, sustainable and effective low-carbon technologies are the core essentials in the huge task of decarbonisation we in the eu, and globally, are facing. it is due to this fact that i welcomed the rapid process in which the parliament drafted a resolution on the topic, giving a clear indication to the commission and the council that the set-plan is timely and important. if we are serious with our mission, it is evident that we need all forms of low-carbon technologies, including sustainable nuclear power. therefore i am happy that we managed to delete the wording on recital i, which is yet another attempt to put nuclear in a light it nowadays does not deserve. this recital may have had negative implications on the concept of "sustainable low-carbon technologies" suggesting that nuclear is not part of that. the fact however is that we in the eu can't afford not to use it if we want to take climate change seriously. until renewable energies really can deliver effective results and secure constant energy flow, it is such low-carbon technologies which we must rely on.
author. − mr president, usually when this house makes a resolution which has even a slight connection with the situation in the middle east, it is hard to find mutual understanding. that is not so in this case, thanks to the colleagues who have made it possible. the situation of gilad shalit is a humanitarian issue and our joint resolution underlines the fact that, since being taken hostage nearly four years ago, he has been kept in an unknown place in gaza, where he does not enjoy basic rights according to any humanitarian standards, including the third geneva convention. it is from this humanitarian perspective that we demand the immediate release of gilad shalit. meanwhile, the minimum requirement is that the red cross and shalit’s parents may be allowed to be in contact with him. the value of a human person cannot be measured. it is immeasurable. gilad shalit should not be made a bargaining chip by the terrorist organisation hamas but should be released immediately. this is the message that we would like the high representative, baroness ashton, to take with her to gaza during her forthcoming visit.
mr president, as we know, this resolution is based on a very politically sensitive position, but that should not prevent us from issuing a clear humanitarian resolution which is not diluted by general political remarks on the overall situation. i am glad that this resolution has stood its ground. i'm going to vote for it. it stressed the need for all parties to the middle east crisis to respect international humanitarian law and human rights law. i hope it will have the unwavering support of this house. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to stress two points in our resolution on mexico. firstly, as we have heard, violence has increased further in the second half of this year. in mexico, major drug cartels are rampant, and their violence has claimed an estimated 15,000 lives. the situation is particularly bad near the u.s.-mexico border. the mexican government is trying to bring the situation under control with massive military and police action. the strategy has also been the subject of much criticism. it is clear that other countries are also responsible for the problems of drug trafficking, money laundering and the problems they bring about, and mexico must be given cooperation. secondly, i would like to draw attention to recent statements by amnesty international concerning the authorities' unwillingness to protect human rights activists. those who defend the rights of indigenous peoples and poor communities are particularly at risk. when the pursuit of human rights becomes dangerous, many are forced to consider the risks of their work. it also takes away hope from those for whom the activists work. these issues, drug trafficking and human rights, will also be on the agenda in may when we discuss cooperation plans at the next eu-mexico summit.
for the alde group the citizens' initiative is important because it is one of the few reforms brought about by the lisbon treaty that can be said to have a concrete impact on the direct influence of citizens. of course, this is only a small step and collecting one million names is a big undertaking, and yet it can only be used to tell the commission that it should do something. the commission then decides in its high wisdom whether or not to do so. if the citizens' initiative proves to be a successful experiment, as i hope it will, it is very possible that the road to direct citizens' influence can be taken further. so now that the framework for a citizens' initiative is being set up, it is very important that the framework is defined in such a way that the initiative can be made easily and that the framework is clear and understandable. we must not create false hopes or misunderstandings. there has been discussion of such a prior checking procedure. i think it's something that needs to be thought through very carefully. it may be good, but on the other hand i do not know whether it is right to cut back on initiatives at that stage. let the people have their say. i think it is important that the threshold for the different member states, that is to say the number of member states, should not be too high, but that a quarter should be sufficient to consider the initiative as having been taken and to promise to take it forward. it is necessary to ensure that the regulation does not create unnecessary obstacles to the implementation of the citizens' initiative, but that it is clear and simple. we hope that many initiatives will be taken and that the commission will take them forward.
i would like to express my strong condemnation of the fact that spain, as the spanish presidency, has walked out of this chamber. they didn't even listen to what mrs. andrikienė said. he called on the council to have the courage to be present at this debate and to express its position on the question of tibet. mr president, you made a mistake, you said that spain had informed them that they could be there until 6.50 p.m. this is not true. they had originally announced that they would have to leave at 5 p.m., but they had time to be here when the citizens' initiative was discussed for almost two hours. i can't let this happen again. i assume that the commission, chaired by the vice-president of the commission, mrs ashton, is serious and will implement what they have just said. i am thinking of the fact that our relationship with china is so important that we must also be able to discuss difficult issues, such as the question of tibet. i believe that now is the right time to renew the european union's support for tibet. we must deal with the fact that nine rounds of negotiations between china and the tibetan government in exile have produced no results, and i fully agree with mr rinaldo on this point. it seems china doesn't want any of the negotiations to work. china wants to continue to trample on the cultural, religious and linguistic rights of tibetans. we cannot accept this kind of cultural genocide. i went to dharamshala a month ago and met the dalai lama. i spoke with him for an hour just before he left for the united states to meet president obama. i am convinced that i must say in parliament that we are discussing the situation in tibet. the dalai lama is a peaceful, peaceful person, and it is completely wrong for china to keep claiming that he is a dangerous separatist and that he has caused the unrest and riots that were seen in tibet two years ago. the dalai lama, on the contrary, has said that chinese representatives are welcome to visit the archives of his government-in-exile to examine documents to make sure that the dalai lama has not been inciting violence. and yet, it keeps happening all the time. i expect the european union to condemn such talk and to raise this matter with china. if the european union does not have the courage to defend tibet, then very few others will. we can take a lesson from president obama, who had the courage to welcome the dalai lama. i think it would be quite normal for the high representative of the european union to do the same, as has been suggested here. we must raise this issue in the european parliament. it was also referred to here that a special representative for tibet is needed. we have all kinds of special agents. why can we not have a special representative for tibet, for which there is even money in this year's budget? it is absolutely intolerable that the council should walk out of a debate like this. the council is a coward and does not dare to face up to a matter of this nature, which is a matter of defending human rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in economic times like these, budgetary matters are difficult and sensitive. the 2011 budgetary guidelines also include the european parliament's own budget. traditionally, expenditure under heading 5 has been allocated so that parliament's share is less than 20%. as a result of the lisbon treaty, there are now calls for parliament to devour a greater share of the money. it is certainly justified to review the increases in resources that the new powers of parliament may bring about, and we have already received more money for 2010 as a result of the lisbon treaty itself. at the same time, the lisbon treaty cannot function as a new money machine for parliament. we must also be able to make our own organisation more efficient and try to save where possible, in order to cover any additional needs along the way. now, too, there are voices calling for increased funding for the functions that support us meps in our work. the idea is certainly a good one, but the interesting thing is that the members of my group, for example, are more or less unanimous in their view that the need is not urgent and not necessary in these economically difficult times. the guidelines we are going to adopt today are good, and i think that should be interpreted as a call to critically examine our own expenditure.
the most important point to be made, mr president, is that family farming is local, it creates jobs, it strengthens the regions, it is humane and it also takes animal welfare into account. the resulting uniqueness and quality of the product is what makes it successful in europe and the world. where the product comes from is important. the local specialties are priceless. in my part of finland, there is a delicious gourmet cuisine. i can recommend it to all of you. there are special products like this all over europe. we must ensure that these special products are placed on the market. i would like to say to the new commissioner that farming must be possible throughout europe. if we remember this, we have a great future and safe, clean food from europe.
mr president, in the aftermath of the financial crisis, public finances have been increasingly indebted, even though the rescue tapes are being turned down in many countries. after the management of the acute economic crisis, the utmost attention must be paid to serious long-term imbalances in public finances. we have had a growth and stability pact, but the problem is that the member states have not complied with it and so we are now faced with completely unmanageable public deficits. the same attention has been paid to the incorrect statistics in greece, but the core of the problem is the mismanagement of economic policy. in the face of slow growth, ageing and a slowly improving employment situation, we politicians face very difficult decisions. there are few remedies in public finances: increase tax revenues, increase economic growth or reduce expenditure. the key indicator in the search for remedies is the sustainability and deficit of public finances. the sustainability gap indicates how much the tax rate should be raised or the expenditure rate should be lowered to put the public finances on a sustainable basis in the long term. to achieve this balance, it is also necessary to take account of the fact that the debt already accumulated increases the rate of interest and the growth rate of gross domestic product by a factor of two, and that the ageing of the population will considerably increase pension, health and care costs in the coming years. in order to increase public revenues, it is essential to achieve growth and employment and to increase the productivity of public services, as well as to implement structural measures that can, among other things, guarantee the sustainability of pension systems. in the long term, fertility and preventive health care also play a role in balancing public finances. in the midst of the economic crisis, there has been a call for better coordination of public finances and i would like to ask how commissioner rehn intends to implement this coordination of the economies. but i do not think that this economic crisis should be used as a back door to take over the economies of the member states. we just have to follow strict budget discipline in public finances.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs trüpel, for this excellent report. i know him well, by the way, from the five years i have been on the committee, and i know that the tasks he carries out are carried out with great care and professionalism, and this is one good example of that. we also need such a project in europe, because the european union is seen as a community of values, but it is also a strong cultural community. we have 27 different member states with a very rich and multi-stage culture. if, in this age of information superhighways, we can make information more accessible to people, then that is a european asset worth investing in and seeking resources for. it is a way of making it possible for even the smallest countries to showcase their own unique and special culture. the commission and the member states will ensure that broadband is made available everywhere, and the principle of equal access to cultural services will be implemented in the case of online libraries, museums and archives.
mr president, animal welfare is also a measure of the level of civilization of our european citizens. the european union must ensure that legislation is up to date and that controls are effective. at the moment, both are lacking. this is a demonstration of animal transport. we have seen crude and violent films on television, and on this matter, and on all matters relating to animal welfare, i would like the commission to act swiftly so that we can be sure that animals are being treated properly.
mr president, mr le foll's report is extremely important because european food production and agriculture are important issues. europe must be self-sufficient, and this is also important for the prevention of climate change, because short transport distances and local food are the best measures to prevent climate change. agriculture must be ecologically sustainable and we have a lot of work to do in this respect. the member states of the european union can act as frontier guards in this area, and europe and the member states are well placed to do so in the sense that we have the opportunity to invest in research.
mr president, this report by the committee on agriculture is an extremely important report, because the role of agriculture will only become stronger in the future. the world's demand for food is growing rapidly, as climate change reduces the world's arable land, and consumers' demands for food quality are also increasing. in addition to its own food security, europe must contribute to the food supply of other continents. investing in sustainable forest management and better use of wood must also be seen as an important part of eu climate policy. i was therefore a little disappointed that the eu 2020 strategy invested so little in agriculture and forestry. however, agriculture and forestry have a vital role to play in ensuring food security for europeans, improving the efficiency of bioenergy production and the vitality of rural areas.
mr president, it is very good that the lessfavoured regions have been given special attention in this report. the key idea, which i am sure everyone here supports, is that the conditions for profitable agricultural production must be secured throughout the eu, also in the future. there seems to be a great deal of confusion about the criteria for defining disadvantaged areas. particular attention must be paid to agriculture in less-favoured areas, since the previous reforms of the cap have very often been made from the point of view of the less-favoured areas. in order to continue to be able to farm in lessfavoured areas, it is essential that we have proportionate regulatory mechanisms. the eu has failed to dismantle many agricultural regulatory mechanisms, for example, the abandonment of milk quotas and the abolition of the quota system have been unsuccessful decisions for less-favoured areas.
in writing. – i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. maintaining diverse and active rural areas is important for several reasons, not least because of growing global demand for food products and environmentally sustainable tourism. additionally, it would be a serious setback in many areas to stop to cultivate the land, both in terms of vital rural income and the loss of landscape, which might have been formed during several centuries.
mr president, the administrative burden on farmers in agriculture must be reduced and these practices put forward by the rapporteur are very welcome. many farmers have said that they feel almost like criminals when they try to fight with various administrative documents and regulations. the common agricultural policy must be simpler. it should also be noted that as market volatility increases and eu import protection decreases, the need for market management and regulatory mechanisms will continue. for example, inventory systems and possibly export promotion measures will be needed in the future. it is clear that the maintenance of these systems cannot be entirely simple. in particular, for sensitive products such as milk, a regulatory framework similar to a quota system should be established. otherwise, production in less favoured areas will be impossible.
mr president, the eu has helped haiti, and that is a good thing, but i think this disaster has clearly shown that the eu should have a rapid humanitarian response force and that civilian crisis management should be developed. it is not enough to give money, but the eu should have the ability to act quickly in such a disaster situation and to help and send people to the scene. we must help people in a concrete way, not over a long period of time, which is also important, but immediate and rapid assistance is currently lacking in the eu's capacity. i hope that this will be taken into account and that rapid reaction forces will be set up.
mr president, mr president of the commission, youth unemployment and social exclusion are a major problem. as you said, 20 percent of the youth are unemployed. another problem is that with so many people being laid off, most of those being laid off are over 50. at the same time, however, in many member states there is talk of extending the working age, of raising the retirement age, and of increasing the number of foreign workers. so we need a strong labour-based immigration. i think there's a contradiction here in some way. i would like to ask you, if you want to increase working time, why not give people over 50 the opportunity to continue working, but instead fire them? why not create opportunities for young people and say that we need immigration from abroad for work? what is the european strategy in this regard? can we make that happen? i think we can all agree that young talented people should be given jobs, so that they are not left behind. the cost of this development of exclusion will be far too great for our society.
mr president, there has been a lot of talk about young people here, which is absolutely right. the second group of people who will be hit hardest by this employment crisis are women. in fact, now that national economies are falling into debt and member states are cutting budgets, the cuts are often directed at the areas in which women work, namely health care and education. i ask mr barroso what you are saying and what you are going to do about those member states which, despite the fact that the 2020 programme says that we must invest in human resources, education and health care, are cutting back on them? since today's music in the member states is 'cut, cut, cut' and not 'invest, invest, invest in people', what are you going to do with these member states?
mr president, the stabilization of the market must be one of the main objectives of the common agricultural policy. and that's something we all feel like we can agree on in this room. the cap needs a safety net of market measures to protect farmers and all the actors in the food chain. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the volume of imports from third countries during the period considered. it is therefore good that the commissioner is now saying that he intends to take action before 2013. it is now necessary to examine how we can introduce the new market management instruments, such as the development of the income guarantee system, the strengthening of producer and sectoral organisations and the improvement of market transparency through a variety of measures.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the council and i appreciate the fact that the council came because the question is whether the council really wants to take responsibility for the use of taxpayers' money and whether the council wants to value parliament and cooperation. that's why it's important that the council be there. i shall concentrate on the discharge of parliament and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr staes, for his very good cooperation. i share with him the very good basic ideas he put forward that parliament can only succeed if the decision-making process is sufficiently open and transparent. that's how we can prevent scandal. we know that no matter how small the sum involved, if misconduct is discovered, the reputation will last a long time. preventing this is of the utmost importance. it's not about parliament's money. it's about taxpayers' money. that's why the system has to be flawless so that we can take responsibility to the end. the staes report had many good principles, but my own group took it as a starting point that the report should be shorter and more concise, and that is why we made omissions in the report. we also believe that the report should contain concrete points concerning the work of the european parliamentarians and the whole of parliament in the actual legislative process. we have added, for example, cases concerning property policy, where there is still a lot to be recovered. we need to get a clear picture of why they're having problems. it's a subject for a long conversation. we want to know why the visitor center is already a few years behind schedule. what could be the problem with these things? we want answers to these questions. we welcome the fact that parliament has finally drawn up a new statute for members and their assistants. it is true that it has been a great step forward, but there is still a lot to be changed. for example, the new regulations require me to fly from strasbourg to finland and then to brussels. it is not even a question of whether i have a visiting group in brussels tomorrow or a report to prepare, but i am not allowed to go directly to brussels. if i went, i wouldn't be paid for travel expenses or any other compensation. i don't understand why we have to make our lives so difficult when we know that the journey from here to my hometown of turku, finland, takes one day and from there back another day if i want to go to brussels to work. when i asked why this is the case, the administration has replied that you could fly through rome or athens to finland. i have no office in rome or athens, and i have no work to do, but it is in brussels. if we have two offices, we have to accept that we can work in both. there are still things that need to be put right. we shall return to these in next year's report.
mr president, the fight against terrorism is important and the eu must be involved. but that cannot be done by trampling on human rights. respect for human rights is one of the most important european values and should be one of the unifying factors in transatlantic cooperation as well. it is important that transatlantic cooperation works, but it must work in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual respect. the exchange of information must be individualized, and i would like to stress once again that human rights cannot be trampled underfoot in the name of the fight against terrorism. if this happens, then we have surrendered to the terrorists.
mr president, i agree that tailings dams such as the one that caused the accident in baia mare in 2000 should not be created. finland is a big gold producer by european standards. the new mine in kittila is the biggest in europe with a yearly production of 5 000 kg of gold. now we have to remember one scientific fact; gold does not dissolve in liquids other than cyanide. therefore the extraction process in kittila also involves cyanide, but in closed processes. cyanide used in processing the enriched slurry is reused and the residuals of cyanide are destroyed after the process. even the residuals of cyanide in the water recovered from tailings dams are purified. bacteria-based extraction would be more nature-friendly but it is not yet used for gold. the first mine in the world to use microbial extraction from heaps of nickel ore is in talvivaara, also in finland. microbial purification of residual cyanide is being developed with good results and i strongly recommend moving in that direction. therefore i do not support a move to ban the use of cyanide totally but i would certainly encourage strict environmental controls with the best available technology and closed processes.
mr president, as a northern laplander, i would like to take the floor in this debate. as mr essayah said in his excellent speech, cyanide is currently used in the smelting of gold and it is done in closed processes in finland. the gold mine in kittilä, which is quite near where i live, does produce over 5,000 kilograms of gold a year. there have been no problems because environmental matters have been handled in such a way that legislation is up to date, processes are closed and waste is disposed of. it's also a matter of technology. there are certainly considerable differences between european countries in this area, and i believe we need to work together and exchange best practice. another important thing is the use of microbes, which is a new innovation. it is also important to invest in the future so that we can move towards even more environmentally friendly and efficient practices in the dissolving of gold. we must make a joint effort at european level to ensure that mining can continue in an environmentally sustainable way.
for the verts/ale group mr president, it is very important that we think of human rights as having intrinsic value, but they also have an instrumental value, which i see when i speak to representatives of third countries as chairman of the subcommittee on human rights. today is the last day i have had a conversation with the moroccan parliamentarians. it is very good to be able to tell them that the european union also emphasizes human rights in its own activities and does not simply try to teach others how important human rights are. in this way we can tell the representatives of third countries that the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights does mean that we are subjecting our own activities to external control, as has been explained here. i can also tell you that for the first time we have a commissioner who is specifically responsible for these matters as part of the legal questions. i would like to mention that, of course, accession by the european union to the european convention on human rights does not solve the problem of the court of human rights being completely overburdened. we must think about how we can solve this problem of talkative people. i would also like to urge the union to decide to join these various useful additional protocols, for example on combating torture or combating racism and strengthening the rule of law.
mr president, commissioner, it has become very clear in these previous speeches that parliament is particularly concerned about the balance between the retailers of cars and the car manufacturers, which is also inevitably reflected in the services provided to consumers. in particular, this need for balance is evident in small, sparsely populated markets such as finland and elsewhere in scandinavia. we believe that the authorization of the sale and purchase of a multi-brand representative and company is above all other, more important, conditions in order to guarantee consumers adequate services in the motor vehicle sector. the population of finland is five million and the annual sales of passenger cars this year will be estimated at about 100,000 units. it may sound ridiculously small, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that these changes do not in any way jeopardise the use of the plural. this previous regulation, which guaranteed the multi-brand representation of the car trade, has been extremely good, and therefore the question arises as to why it is being changed at this stage. the second significant impact is that the ability to serve consumers in under-populated areas may be damaged and the ability of consumers to obtain vehicles locally is jeopardised. furthermore, this may also mean that smaller brands are completely unrepresented in areas other than large population centres, and thus significantly reduce the choice of brands available to consumers.
in writing. the report on the commission communication 'cancer prevention: a european partnership programme' is very important and timely. cancer is currently the second leading cause of death and morbidity in europe. increasing cooperation and resources in cancer research and prevention are of paramount importance. member states must remove carcinogenic chemicals from the market and replace them with less harmful ones. preventive screening is necessary and effective and should be adequately funded. the information campaigns should also be directed at educational establishments. the fight against cancer requires clear objectives to be pursued jointly by the commission and the member states. the commission and the member states must be encouraged to commit themselves to investing in the future, in cancer research and prevention, because in the long term, money and lives will be saved.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent compromise. we have recently been talking in europe, particularly in the context of the europe 2020 programme, about competitiveness and how we can create this competitiveness, in particular by increasing entrepreneurship in smes. if we want to encourage entrepreneurship, the issues we are now discussing on the application of equal treatment between men and women to selfemployed workers are also very important and part of this debate. indeed, entrepreneurship must be a real alternative for the individual, for men and women. academic entrepreneurship should also be supported by including entrepreneurship in curricula. in this respect, we are considerably behind the united states, among others. when we talk about equality, we must remember that one of the indicators of equality is precisely the question of entrepreneurship and the possibility of being an entrepreneur, regardless of gender. if we compare the figures in europe, we can see that the majority of entrepreneurs are still men. if we think about growth entrepreneurship and how we could support this growth entrepreneurship, i can only say with regret that at the moment the statistics show that women entrepreneurs are also significantly behind men in their growth appetite. there are many reasons for these figures, but the fact is that there are currently, among other things, gaps in social security for entrepreneurs which pose challenges specifically to women entrepreneurs, as we have heard in this debate. the combination of motherhood, parenting and entrepreneurship also requires special measures, as the work of an entrepreneur is often irregular, long working hours and uncertain livelihood. this legislative text is an excellent step towards encouraging and promoting entrepreneurship on a more equal basis.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. it has been an interesting discussion about parliament's own budget for this year and next year. i would like to begin by thanking in particular helga trüpel, who has done a good job in preparing next year's budget. it's probably more balanced than originally intended. the treaty of lisbon brings new requirements for the european parliament and from that point of view it is logical that the parliament should expect some increase in costs, since our activities are also increasing. at the same time, it is incredibly surprising that we have not had any ability to reorganise our own activities so that this path can also meet new needs. it's something we have to get much better at. in the liberal group we have been critical of the cost increases originally proposed by the bureau and which have now, as has already been mentioned, been partly cut back. i would like to say, however, that we in the liberal group do not accept and will not vote for any additional allocation of eur 1 500 per month to each member to employ additional assistants. we also oppose the idea of a representation allowance for committee chairmen. it is obvious that the two major political groups have now found each other on this issue, but from the liberal side we will fight for our views here in the house. it is important that the european parliament shows that we are actually interested in the costs we are incurring. i cannot quite understand the logic that was presented earlier here, which says that it is not about cost increases but about being able to carry out our mission properly. that's not what this is about. it is ultimately just a matter of cost increases. in the long run, it is also good to remember that the more assistants are employed in parliament, the more the needs of our buildings will also increase and it will be very expensive in the long run. we in the liberal group are very critical of some of these proposals and will also vote on that basis when the house goes to vote.
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mr paulo alves, for the excellent work he has done on this report. our group can fully support this compromise, because it is very important and clear that the economic and social development of the eu's outermost regions is strongly influenced by their remote location, difficult climatic and geographical conditions and economic dependence on few products and services. it is particularly important at this time of crisis that we pay attention to the balanced development of europe's regions and to the achievement of territorial and social cohesion. the union and we must ensure that we have self-sufficient agricultural production throughout europe. this is an important issue for both security and biodiversity. it is now very important to put the measures proposed in the report into practice and thus to achieve lasting and, above all, long-term results throughout europe and also in the peripheral regions of europe.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr richard ashworth, for his excellent report. i think that it is now very important to pay attention to the possibility of simplifying these agricultural processes within the european union. it can be said that at present the sub-forest is such that the average peasant in both northern and eastern finland, in a completely different part of europe, does not want to survive. that is why we need clear and workable models, models that are understandable. we also need trust between the farming population and the administration to get things moving. at the moment, this european union's agricultural policy is such a jumble of 27 different countries and 27 different cultures that it is difficult to see a clear future except that we simplify and clarify the systems. this ashworth report is a good guideline for this direction and i hope that we can continue on this path: clear, simple guidelines and instructions for agriculture in the future too.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report, but i voted wrongly in the important rule 34, paragraph 5 of the amendment. it is very important that we find out how much this carbon footprint is and that we find out what it costs. it is high time we moved to one seat in parliament and i am very glad that the new british government has included in its programme the raising of this issue. i hope that other member states will follow suit. it's about the environment, it's about cost. as long as the european parliament has the opportunity to spend as much money as it is now spending on such a rally, we will know nothing of the economic crisis.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr mikolášik and mr perello, for their excellent work. the most difficult issue in the negotiations was the issue of living donors. on the one hand, there are long lines of patients waiting for kidney transplants, and on the other hand, there is the need to protect living donors and prevent the illegal trade in human beings and the extreme exploitation of the poor people that goes along with it. we did not get as good a result as we greens would have liked. the safest thing for the human rights of donors would be to require member states to have a strict national system to eliminate the illegal trade in human beings if the surrender of living persons is allowed to go beyond family and close people. although the negotiated text is somewhat weaker, i hope that all eu countries will take strong action to tackle the illegal trade in human beings. according to the council of europe, between 5 and 10% of kidney transplants come from the illegal trade in human beings, which means thousands of victims a year. voluntary and unpaid donation is also the safest option for the recipient. this kind of life-trafficking industry cannot work unless there is demand and intermediaries. it has been shocking to read reports of the buying of organs from poor countries, such as africa, asia, and even eastern europe. the most shocking have been reports of people being killed outright. for example, australian transplant surgeons have condemned china's practice of killing prisoners for organs. we in europe must do everything we can to ensure that we do not become a market for this crime.
mr president, the psychology of a crisis is that of either retreating, blaming others, looking for enemies or seeking new solutions. the three approaches are now being adopted in europe: on the one hand, nationalism and protectionism are on the rise in many countries, and on the other hand, new solutions are being sought, as the commission is doing. they are to be highly valued. the stronger the political system in the european union and at national level, the more market forces can be tamed. if you don't, you're going to get hurt. i think there is one thing we could stop doing, and that is to stop mocking greece. the greek people, the prime minister and the politicians deserve our respect now because they are making very difficult decisions. as olle schmidt said, finland and sweden were greece in the early 1990s. we had to make the same tough decisions, but we made it.
in writing. it is good that the europe 2020 strategy has taken account of young people. but the pressure is insufficient. the contents are narrow and cloud-like. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the youth unemployment figures are alarming. that's more than double the unemployment rate for the rest of the country. in latvia and spain, nearly half of the young are unemployed. in the long term, youth unemployment poses a high risk of poverty and exclusion. young people with little work experience are at a disadvantage on the labour market, especially in the context of redundancies. the forecasts say there's going to be a shortage of workers. it is not self-evident that the youth who are now unemployed will be able to meet this future need for workers. the reintegration of longterm unemployed young people into society may not be without problems. we need to take concrete action. we need to give young people jobs, not promises. it is very important that responsibility for the future be taken and that children and young people be kept at the centre of all plans.
in writing. the current economic crisis is the continuation of three interlinked crises. these are the financial crisis, the subsequent crisis in the real economy and the resulting crisis in public finances. the crises reveal the problems of european and global governance and supervision: the economic crisis is largely a crisis of the system and of the policies in place. the financial world and economic activity no longer know any boundaries. cross-border activities cannot be managed with national tools alone: a regional and global set of rules is needed. as the mont report published last week also states, europe is no longer satisfied with ad hoc solutions to each crisis. there is a need for proactive and long-term solutions and tools to better manage future crises. the key is the willingness and ability of member states to cooperate, and there is still room for hope. the council can be commended for its decisive action in resolving the crisis which threatened the union as a whole, but it cannot be commended for its rapid action: the real actions of the member states followed only in the foreseeable future. the slowdown was likely to have contributed to the escalation of the situation. the most obvious of the actions to be taken in the future is the need to reform the eu budget and align national budgets more closely with common objectives. the strengthening of financial supervision and regulation is already partly under way, but further action is still needed to ensure that all financial products are brought under effective and functional regulation.
mr president, when i was a student at the university of helsinki in the 1980s, the soviet union was still very strong. when there was trouble, they called for more socialism. i am now a middle-aged family man here in the european union, and when there are problems here, more integration is called for. this anecdote, this philosophy, is surprisingly similar, and the result will be the same: it doesn't work. let us build on the foundations of nation states. to the fact that you have to bake a cake before you can share it. we're creating jobs and conditions. this is where the power comes in. this is how we're gonna get ahead. we have a shortage of employers, not so much a shortage of workers, but a shortage of employers who are able to give people work. small businesses are key. we have postponed the debate on the directive on the working time of owner-drivers to the next part-session. that is a typical example of where we should be defending the self-employed entrepreneurs who create jobs, who do good and employ people. but now we're in danger of losing jobs because of administrative decisions. i love europe too, although i do not love the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my speech concerns the report by mr liem hoang ngoc on sustainable public finances. it has been a very interesting report to work on. as the rapporteur has also said, we have had quite different ideological views on this issue. in this context, it is important to remember what has happened in recent weeks in europe where we have a crisis that we have rarely seen before. it is mainly due to the fact that member states have not taken care of their own finances and their own house. so it was perhaps a little surprising that we had such great ideological differences about whether it actually makes sense to borrow and spend as much money as many countries have done in recent years. as i said, we had quite a great deal of disagreement on these issues, and this was also reflected in the house. fortunately, a very large majority of the committee was of the opinion that stricter measures were needed to remedy the situation in which we find ourselves. the commission has put forward very good proposals in recent weeks. now, at last, we are beginning to see decisions that will actually bring order to the economy of europe. that's exactly what we need. that is why the committee's proceedings were exciting to say the least. it is important to remember that it is not just about the borrowing we have today, but also about future challenges, where the demographics of europe, with an increasingly ageing population, etc., are challenges for the future. it was an important report and i think we have made good changes to it. i am convinced that the decision here in the house will be a good one.
mr president, the debt burden of national economies, together with the ageing of the population, is a real time bomb for europe. we know that, for example, diseases associated with aging, such as alzheimer's disease, will double in ten years. this is a huge burden on economies. but debt should not be mystified, as i recall, ceausescu's romania was a debt-free country and north korea is a debt-free country. there is smart debt, smart productive dept, smart debt if that debt is invested in people. in this respect, for example, the eradication of poverty is a highly profitable investment for society, as is the reduction of youth unemployment. what i really fear at the moment, when the member states are starting to fill up the gaps, is what is being cut. we are cutting back on education, on the employment of the elderly, on the employment of the disabled and so on. it's not smart, it's not intelligent. that is why this eu 2020 is a very important document, and i am one of those who say more europe, not less europe. more europe means a certain root-and-branch approach, whereby member states are obliged to implement the objectives set out in this eu 2020 strategy.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate my former colleague mr schmitt on his election as president of the hungarian parliament. it is clear that european universities need to be continuously developed in order to meet new societal challenges and to face ever-increasing international competition. we simply cannot afford to stay put. high-level skills and the knowledge-based economy are and must continue to be the cornerstones of european society. in this context, it is important to pay greater attention to the dialogue between our universities and businesses and to try to eliminate the bottlenecks that hinder cooperation. these are problems of intellectual property rights and innovation. in finland we have a great example of cooperation between business and the university, aalto university, which is named after the famous finnish architect alvar aalto. the university is a multidisciplinary university that brings together three prestigious colleges: the school of commerce, the school of arts and the school of technology. economics, aesthetics and technology are in symbiosis with each other. the interdisciplinary approach, and in particular the new platforms design, media and surface factor , enable academic teams to research and students to work in close cooperation with businesses and communities. the best part is that new research findings are transferred directly to teaching, giving students direct access to the latest information needed in the labour market. however, we must think carefully about how and under what conditions we want to improve cooperation between business and universities. it is essential that the independence of universities and the tradition of free inquiry be upheld in all circumstances. the danger is ultimately the privatisation of the university sector, but is this the direction we want to go in europe? the basis for an independent university system is adequate public funding. the dependence of universities on private funding is a cause for concern because it allows power to shift from the university community to the funders. therefore, special attention should be paid to the governance systems of universities.
in writing. mr president, in 1999, the european commission, on behalf of the european union, ordered bulgaria to close four of its six nuclear power plants as a precondition for accession negotiations. the commission had long argued that these units were not economically viable. two units were closed in accordance with the contract in 2002 and the other two in 2006. following substantial investments and independent investigations, these units met all safety criteria and, according to the council's atomic energy review group, no further monitoring was required. bulgaria had become a net electricity supplier, supplying all its neighbours with electricity, sometimes covering 100% of the region's electricity deficit. however, the rest of the units were shut down as agreed, the area suffered power cuts, and as a result of the replacement plants, we had an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. i myself put the question to the commission and the council, on the basis of the report by mr van orden on the application of the republic of bulgaria to join the european union, and paragraph 33 thereof. in it, the european parliament called on the council to provide more flexibility in respect of closure dates until new non-emission capacity is built, which would not happen before 2011. however, the replies were negative and instead emphasised eu solidarity in the form of tangible financial support to bulgaria. it is therefore appropriate to extend the financing beyond the planned period, as the loss of electricity generation capacity, not to mention other burdens on the region, has been economically and socially burdensome for bulgaria. but it is fair to ask: could this huge financial investment have been avoided if the commission and the council had reconsidered their rigid and questionable conditions?
in writing. − this report could not have come at a more critical moment. the ongoing financial crisis has created a sense of mistrust and led to more discussions about protectionist measures by governments. in the long term this would have detrimental effects on europe’s economy. i believe there is a connection between the economic problems and the lack of motivation in completing the internal market. mr grech correctly points out in his report that the citizen is the real centre of the internal market and that it should be the economy that works for the citizen, not the other way round. in mr monti’s report, ‘a new strategy for the internal market’, he warns that the internal market is more unpopular than ever but also more needed than ever. it is my belief that we must act boldly, whilst taking into account citizens’ concerns, to re-energise the internal market. i voted in favour of the grech report, although in my opinion it could have underlined more the situation of smes. however, with the important amendments passed, the result was well-balanced and i hope it will lead to well-thought-out legislative initiatives by the commission.
author. − madam president, my group, alde, welcomes the measures taken in the interests of religious minorities by the government of pakistan since november 2008, and supports the efforts of the federal minister for minorities in establishing a network of local inter-faith harmony committees to promote dialogue between religions. nevertheless, much needs to be done along the road towards genuine religious freedom in pakistan. reports and surveys carried out by independent agencies reveal that minorities in pakistan are deprived of basic civil liberties and equal opportunities in jobs, education and political representation. the legal provisions are dangerously vague and continue to be open to misuse, which affects people of all faiths in pakistan. we know also that women in pakistan face domestic abuse, including physical and psychological abuse. much, therefore, remains to be done.
the author. - mr president, our resolution on pakistan consistently raises concerns which we see in particular in the blasphemous following. at the same time, however, we strongly wish to acknowledge the good progress made in pakistan under the present government and encourage it to continue its policy of democratic reform and respect for the rights of minorities. the first ever minority minister in pakistan, shahbaz bhatti, was a guest of the epp group last week. we have great respect for his work and for the reforms that the government has made. the list of progress is impressive: a five percent quota for minorities in public office, the recognition of minority holidays and seats in the upcoming senate, to name a few. the most exciting project is the grassroots interfaith harmony committees, if they can manage to defuse tensions between the different groups in the country and thus also prevent the recruitment of terrorists. this is a major act of peace, and the effects will last a long time. this unarmed peace effort is the best possible war on terrorism, for it is rooted in the underlying causes. if you succeed in this, it's an achievement worthy of the peace prize. i would like to say to mr tannock that this is the kind of training he was asking for.
mr president, i would like to point out that i also met the minister for minorities here this week. i was convinced that he was trying to create a consensus between different religious groups, but he also did not really know how to answer the question of why pakistan, however, in the un, in the un human rights council, as part of the organization of islamic countries, has very strongly defended a new kind of international regulation to combat blasphemy and the defamation of religion. this is certainly not conducive to interfaith understanding. i would hope that the european union would take stronger action on this issue at international level to prevent the entry into force of such new provisions which jeopardise the realisation of human rights. the united states has been much more active than the european union in this respect.
author. − madam president, with this resolution the european parliament calls on the burmese government to put an end to human rights violations and to start genuine dialogue with the opposition and ethnic representatives of burma, as well as with the international community, and to take concrete steps towards a peaceful transition to a democratic system of government. burma is going to hold an election this year for the first time in 30 years. unfortunately, the election laws published do not provide for fair and free elections. the opposition is not involved in the process and many of the opposition leaders are still under house arrest. many political activists are in prison, and the opposition party has decided to boycott the elections completely. the last thing i want to say is that the united nations special rapporteur on burma has condemned the gross and systematic human rights abuses. i hope parliament will do the same.
mr. president, burma is holding its first parliamentary elections in 20 years. it is hardly surprising that the forthcoming elections already at this stage look anything but free and democratic. the 2008 constitutional amendment guarantees 25% of the seats in parliament to the military. in addition, this year's legislative reforms would bar tens of thousands of burmese from voting, including political prisoners and religious minorities. buddhist monks have long been the target of special persecution. the international community must make an effort. it is regrettable that the commission has reduced funding for refugee camps on the thai-burmese border. humanitarian aid is needed in abundance and international pressure is needed to get it there. it is also a priority for burma to initiate dialogue between its political and ethnic groups.
for the verts/ale group mr president, the question put to mr romero lópez was of course very relevant. that is why we are working on minimum procedural standards, so that we can rely on other member states, for example, in the case of the extradition of a suspect or accused person. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very good teamwork he has done with all of us shadow rapporteurs. the most important thing is that we now have a directive which must guarantee that everyone has the right to understand and be understood in the public and in the courts, which is one of the fundamental conditions for the rule of law. i also thank the rapporteur for the effort he has made to find solutions to overcome certain problems that arise in the various member states because of the different legal cultures. it is, of course, regrettable that the period of validity will be 36 months. nevertheless, i think we must accept this outcome, because it is such that we can go on from here.
mr president, i come from finland, a country with few people, long distances and a lot of entrepreneurship. we do not need, and we will not tolerate, any further restrictions on independent motorists. it is great that an estonian commissioner who knows the nordic conditions knows this, and that the slovakian rapporteur knows this. thank you for this. this is a matter of principle: we must not restrict small businesses throughout europe, this could be a precedent. it's very dangerous. how does europe expect to achieve growth and employment if it destroys and kills the conditions for employment and growth by means of administrative decisions? i am defending the finnish owner-driver and that means defending the whole of small business across europe. there is no growth and no rise of europe if administrative decisions prevent small businesses from working! (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there should be no limitation on the working time of commercial drivers other than driving time. road safety is ensured by limiting driving times and by compulsory rest periods, which are covered by the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on driving and rest periods in road transport and which apply to all - that is, all - truck and bus drivers, including those who are self-employed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the rules of the road. the committee on transport and tourism has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. how can we control whether a businessman washes his wife's car or truck in his own backyard? this is quite incomprehensible, since no other entrepreneurs have restricted hours of work! it would be a serious precedent if we were to go down that road. as the previous speaker pointed out, in the nordic countries, like my home country of finland, the transport sector is very small-business dominated and consists mainly of one or two vehicle companies. the restrictions on the working time of entrepreneurs would favour large, transnational transport companies and make it difficult for new transport companies to be created. the young people will certainly not be interested in the sector if income opportunities are artificially restricted. this would mean a shortage of capacity and an increase in costs. already, the nordic countries have higher average logistics costs than europe, due to their northern location and sparsity of population.
in writing. the concern of the labour movement about fraudulent enterprises in connection with the driver and businessman working time directive is genuine and justified in some eu countries. outsourcing and the consequent circumvention of employer responsibility is a growing problem. however, the proposed solution to the problem, namely to include drivers in the directive, is wrong. the right way to solve the problems of false entrepreneurship would be to agree at eu level between the workers' and employers' organisations on the definition of entrepreneurship. now the innocent are suffering. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the directive does not apply to selfemployed drivers, but member states may, if they so wish, apply the total working time rule to selfemployed drivers in their own member states. the proposal would be likely to lead to an agreement on the directive at first reading between parliament and the council. it is a pity if parliament does not give a chance to compromise. instead of focusing on improving the position of entrepreneurs, the possibility now exists of restricting the working hours of genuine entrepreneurs. this is worrying, since the earning potential of small entrepreneurs is usually based solely on their own work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are what we eat, we are increasingly products of industry. this is linked to the increase in obesity and its associated diseases, such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. food packaging must clearly state the truth about its contents. the clearest picture of overall health is provided by what is called a traffic light model, which even a child can understand with a glance. if we cannot achieve this at eu level, then at least we must allow it at national level. i would also like to draw your attention to trans fats. the committee supported the mandatory labelling of industrial trans fats and i hope that the whole of parliament will do the same. the committee summarised the studies on the health effects of trans fats and concluded that there is so much evidence of harm that the clearest course would be to ban industrial trans fats, as in denmark. but at least they should be marked on the packaging so that we know what we are buying when we buy, for example, cookies, chocolate, potato chips or ice cream.
mr president, i think we should thank the commission for making such rapid progress. for example, until a few months ago, interfering with the statistical data of a country was considered an interference with national sovereignty. at the time, it was considered almost impossible, and now it is. it is very good that the powers of eurostat are being increased. otherwise, europe would have been plunged into a kind of moral crisis if it had just watched statistics being distorted. i agree with my colleague mr podimata that this kind of mockery of greece should now end. greece must be respected for the fact that the greek people have made very difficult decisions. statistical information and economic information in general should be made more available to the public.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to draw attention to paragraph 14 of the report on the achievement of the millennium development goals, which calls for the eu to provide comprehensive financing to help poor countries to combat the effects of climate change, and stresses that this financing must be additional to existing development aid commitments. climate change is a fact that we must learn to live with. one of the major errors of the environmental movement is that it refused to discuss adaptation for a long time. this was a western luxury, for the adaptation efforts and the funding for them were out of the reach of the world's poor. the creation of the climate fund for developing countries can be credited to copenhagen. however, the importance of climate change as one of the problems facing developing countries should not be overstated. it seems that climate change is cannibalizing all the other problems in our imagination. people have been conditioned to believe that by reducing emissions, all other problems will be sort of erased. nothing could be more wrong with your mind. we must ensure that the vaccination and education of hundreds of millions of children, or the fight against erosion and other solvable environmental problems, are not jeopardised in the name of climate. the best climate action is to help people out of poverty, because poverty is what drives people to make decisions that are bad for the environment. i therefore think it is very important that the report explicitly calls for money for climate change and adaptation not to be excluded from other eu development aid commitments.
i welcome the report on the amendment of the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos, as many of the amendments made reduce the administrative burden on businesses, and the rapporteur has done an excellent job with the shadow rapporteurs. the reduction in the prospectus requirements must always be balanced against the investor protection. the legal basis of the prospectus was clarified and the broad legal basis was abandoned, which is good, because a long prospectus would have been difficult to understand and an investor might have felt that the prospectus itself was not necessary. now the summary of the motions for resolutions must only correspond to the motions for resolutions themselves and must not therefore contradict them. the real legal responsibility lies in the accuracy of the information given in the brochure itself. i also welcome the clarification of the content requirements for the summary, as the uniform structure will help to make the summaries easier to understand. in my second amendment, i wished that the requirement of a prospectus would not be waived in your staff. this was based on the idea that all investors should be treated equally. it is not always consistent to assume that a staff retail investor knows enough about the company and its securities. this is something that we may have to come back to and look at in the future. this directive has an important objective: to enable an investor to base his investment decision on clear and comprehensible information that is readily available. i believe that the amendment of the directive, despite the problem i have mentioned, will make a positive contribution to the change.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr ek, the rapporteur, for his excellent work. this bonus research programme, which is a very worthwhile and good initiative, is the result of the eu's baltic sea strategy. i also consider the strategy itself to be a very important step forward. the baltic sea became virtually an inland sea of the eu six years ago with the enlargement. this has been a very slow realization. as the rapporteur, mr ek, has pointed out, there is a lot of research on the baltic sea, but too little coordinated research, which, among other things, creates a knowledge base for the development of better and smarter eu policies. i hope that the coordinated investigation will help us to realize at least two things. first of all, the ecological state of the baltic sea is alarming. it's one of the most polluted seas in the world. the largest oxygen-free - that is, dead - seabed in the world is in the baltic sea. it has been said that the largest desert in europe is at the bottom of the baltic sea. the second thing that i hope this study will help us to understand better is that we are responsible for the state of the baltic sea. the main problem is that of overcrowding, the consequences of which were well described by the rapporteur. the main source of nutrients for the digestive system - nitrogen and phosphorus - is agriculture. it mainly concerns eu agriculture in the baltic sea basin. i hope that a joint coordinated study will help to raise awareness of these issues and will also help us to develop better and smarter methods for all sectors, but especially for agriculture, because fertilisers that flow into rivers and seas are a waste of resources for farmers. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that research cannot solve everything. we must also understand that saving the baltic sea will require real changes in policy, above all in agriculture, but also in other areas. i hope that we will make the baltic sea, which is now one of the most polluted seas in the world, and its rescue a success story that the rest of the world can learn from.
i would like to thank the high representative for the visit to rostov-on-don and the entire eu human rights group. i am very pleased that you have brought these matters up for discussion, because as you said, there are positive signs, but there are also concerns. i think that the european parliament should clearly state these problems in its resolution tomorrow, as you have also said. we have had very good cooperation between parliament, the commission and the council and we must continue to do so in the field of human rights. i would also like to thank commissioner malmström for raising a very important individual human rights issue in his own discussions with his colleagues in russia. he mentioned the case of magnitsky, a lawyer, which is a shocking example of how a human rights defender can lose his life. we should also not close our eyes to the fact that when the eu-russia summit was in rostov-on-don, ngos were prevented from coming together and expressing their views. they were merely defending article 31 of the russian constitution, which should guarantee freedom of assembly.
in writing. - mr president, the inclusion of independent transport operators in the working time directive for road transport drivers is a good example of how the already weak trust of citizens in the eu is being undermined. i myself voted in favour of the commission's proposal and it is difficult to contain my disappointment now that i have seen the result of the vote in this house. for example, in finland, where i come from, the majority of the transport fleet is made up of independent transport operators, with a staff of 1 to 2 people. it is therefore a disaster if the 48-hour week is also imposed on them. at worst, this would mean that the car could not even be washed or serviced outside this hourly limit. the present decision is difficult to accept, even in the light of the fact that drivers are already covered by the driving and resting time regulations, as are the drivers of workers. so the security of the house has nothing to do with the outcome of the vote. so it is more a tactic of the left and the greens to weaken the position of small businesses, the motives for which can only be guessed. the regulation of freedom of enterprise by using transport operators as a stick is really sad and, for example, in finland for long distances, this legislation is reflected in the increase in transport costs. in what other sector are there no restrictions on working hours for selfemployed workers, so why now for transport operators? i can only hope that this time the council will be wiser than parliament in its decisions.
mr president, mr high representative, as has already been said, the deaths and injuries of the soldiers are regrettable, but the intentions of this aid mission were not as humanitarian as was initially assumed, but very much political. there were turkish activists who were seeking martyrdom. it is also noteworthy that the aid convoy arrived just as peace negotiations between israelis and palestinians were about to resume. hamas does not want the peace talks to continue and, for its part, only wanted to confuse the situation. it has refused to accept the fleet's inspected cargoes by road and aims only to break the blockade. israel has been communicating that it is prepared to ease the siege on gaza in the near future. it has also set up a study committee, which for the first time includes two international observers. these israeli actions offer hope that the tense situation will be calmed. it is also worth noting that, contrary to public claims, the maritime embargo in the area does not violate any treaty of international law. it is perfectly legitimate and right that israel wants guarantees that the easing of the siege on gaza will not lead to palestinian fighters being supplied with weapons and rockets. we cannot achieve real peace and prosperity in the region if hamas is strengthened and gains political prestige as well as military strength. you, mr high representative, and the european parliament must demand that hamas renounce terrorism, recognize the agreements signed by the plo in the past and the legitimacy of the state of israel, and immediately release gilad shalit, whom it has held captive for four years.
in writing. mr president, the chamber is understandably agitated. the gaza aid ship strike has shocked us all, but there are a few facts that should be noted with a little less zeal. the embargo is not against international law. the background is the weekly attacks on israel. no eu member state would accept such a thing. weapons have been delivered to gaza both by land and by sea, including from iran. the grounds for considering gaza as an enemy territory exist and the conditions of international law regarding the legality of the sea blockade are met with one exception: the san remo naval operation treaty prohibits the use of the sea blockade to starve the civilian population. in this respect, israel itself has offered a solution. it wanted the aid supplies to be shipped to the port of ashdod, from where they would be transported to gaza once the weapons were eliminated. the request is reasonable, given the two illegal missile smuggling attempts by sea. the question is, could the violence have been avoided? i quote a finnish military expert on the middle east: "the footage from the incident clearly shows how several dozen activists armed with clubs, tangos, knives and heavy objects attacked the commandos who were descending one by one along the rope. of the six israeli soldiers who first landed, at least two were knocked unconscious by the beating, two were shot with pistols presumably taken from the stunned soldiers, and two escaped by jumping into the sea, stabbed and without their equipment. according to the video and audio footage provided by the idf, the commandos opened fire on the activists afterwards. but these steps are still unclear: who fired, when and with what weapons?" only on the basis of the facts can fair conclusions be drawn. are we doing this?
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to express my great pleasure at this debate, which allows us to discuss the european union's human rights strategy in a broad sense. i am particularly pleased that the high representative, mrs ashton, is here to join the debate and present the annual report. before that, i would like to present a report by the committee on foreign affairs and security, which aims to improve the protection of human rights defenders. every day we receive petitions here in parliament from all over the world about how we can protect those people who often put their lives on the line for the sake of human rights. these petitions come from every continent. often we cannot even define what a human rights defender is, and it is important that we accept that there are many different kinds of human rights defenders: from journalists to lawyers, ordinary brave women and men who put their own interests aside and take up the defence of human rights - and more often than not the human rights of others. i was privileged to draw up a report on the committee's own initiative because, firstly, the protection of human rights defenders is a very important part of human rights policy. there is no human rights policy if there are no human rights defenders. secondly, i am sure that the european union can do much more than it is doing. parliament, the high representative, the new foreign affairs council, we can all work together better and exchange information with each other. the european union can also cooperate better and more closely with other international actors - i am referring to the council of europe and the united nations, for example, and of course to the countless ngos with which we are in constant contact. it must also be said that this new situation, brought about by the treaty of lisbon, gives us new opportunities and new obligations to do our job even better in defending human rights throughout the world. this report presents a number of ideas. they are not all new, but i would like to emphasize that very good ideas have been made, but they have not yet been properly implemented. for example, when the czech republic held the presidency of the union, the idea was put forward of supporting the creation of the shelter cities network. i believe that this is a way of really helping human rights defenders who are working in an extreme situation. i have noticed in the preparation of this report that the idea has attracted a lot of interest from various ngos. some of them are already doing this work of the safe city today. i believe, however, that the european union should do more and invest much more than it does now. secondly, i would like to emphasize that a human rights defender, who often works in difficult situations, must leave the country quickly. as much as our human rights people in the member states and our foreign ministries would be very willing to help, you must always speak to the home office. i hope that this report will lead to consideration of more flexible and faster visa procedures in the member states with the right to decide on visas. thirdly, the report proposes that the european parliament, the future external action service and the eu's missions abroad should have liaison officers responsible for the protection of human rights defenders. the report also suggests that the high representative, the foreign affairs ministers and the special representatives should also actively meet human rights defenders when travelling. all this is to ensure that we do indeed live up to the promises and obligations already imposed on us by the eu guidelines on human rights defenders.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank everybody for this extremely interesting exchange of views which i think also laid a good foundation for the cooperation between the high representative and our work in parliament on human rights. many very important things were said. i believe first of all that, in order to be credible, we have to use the same yardstick to measure similar situations all around the world, understanding of course that the situations may have some nuances and differences, but we should not end up in a situation where we deal with human rights problems in some countries and in others we neglect them. i also believe very much that in order to have a say on human rights in the world, we need to be able to look at problems within the eu. there are incredible prison conditions within the european union. the example of the torture tools shows that we are far from being perfect. we are not living up to expectations and our own commitments. i also believe that in the near future we should have the courage to look at the contribution and involvement of some of our member states in the cia renditions in the fight against terrorism. i know it is a very sensitive subject, but i think we should have the courage to look at this again. mr goerens aired the excellent idea that, when acceding to the european convention on human rights, the 27 member governments should commit themselves to executing the judgments of the human rights court. this would be the least, i think, we can do to make a positive contribution. lastly i would like to say that the european parliament has new competences. we have to use them wisely to promote human rights. trade policy is certainly something we should look at more closely to see what we can do, so thank you, mr moreira, for contributing to this debate.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner for the promise that the commission will work towards an effective instrument that would save whales, a better framework and a permanent moratorium. secondly, i think that this is, as mentioned here already, one of the crucial cornerstones in environmental politics and international negotiations where we have to strive for a better united policy within the european union. the commission, together with parliament, should have a better-coordinated position and role in these negotiations. when it comes to the proposal itself, i really would like to hear strong and affirmative comments by the commission and the council that they will take these points up in the negotiations. firstly, to strongly oppose any moves to legitimise commercial whaling or introduce any new form of whaling: only limited whaling operations should be allowed for indigenous people for subsistence purposes and for local use only. secondly, to ensure that any whaling has a sound scientific basis and is based on the precautionary principle – haphazard, negotiated quotas are no basis for sustainable whaling; that restrictions on the trading of all whale products are maintained and strengthened; that the reduction in the number of whales taken for non-indigenous purposes from current levels is strengthened and phased out to zero; that scientific whaling outside ivc control comes to an end; and, last but not least, that any additional cost for monitoring, control and enhancement are met by whaling nations. i think that whales are great symbols of our environmental consciousness and a signal for how we are treating our environment in general. i do not think that any other issues such as human rights would be put aside, to be regarded as an issue of national sovereignty and interest and a matter of cultural taste, and neither should environmental issues or animal welfare. hunting whales is cruel, it is not necessary for food, and it is threatening our biodiversity.
rapporteur. − mr president, there seems to be broad agreement between the groups on two oral amendments to this report. one is to combine paragraphs 6 and 22, to bring the trade-related positions to the same paragraph. the second one is on rephrasing and streamlining paragraph 19 on the accountability of human rights defenders. i hope these can be adopted.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr pack, who is the chairman of our committee and who drew up the report on players' agents. this is a very good opening, when we're talking about agents. i voted for the report. we must ensure that, at european level, players' agents follow certain ethical rules. unfortunately, in many areas such a code of ethics is currently lacking. this is particularly important because one of the greatest problems of our time is human trafficking. to some extent, in some unfortunate cases, there have been indications that football clubs and other sports clubs have also been used as such a tool. so we want to make sure that sport is absolutely clean in this respect too. i very much welcome this report. i believe that together with uefa and fifa we can create a body of rules that we have a good code of ethics for sport and player trading and agent activity that we implement and follow.
mr president, i am quite in agreement with mr kelam. i voted with our group in favour of this resolution on the shipping industry. however, i must say that there were important points in our own resolution which were not mentioned in this resolution. as an example, the ppe group wanted to recognise the existence of israeli law within internationally recognised and secure borders. since this rather self-evident statement is not in the final resolution, i would like to ask why.
i voted against this resolution, mr president, because i think it is not fair. unfortunately, the resolution is too anti-israel and fails to see the big picture. i think we as the european union also failed in that we should have prevented european union citizens from boarding those ships, because the purpose of those ships was simply to provoke, to go into a closed area where there is an international maritime embargo. we all know what that means under international maritime law. after watching various television channels, it has become clear that unfortunately the purpose of that ship was only to strike against israel and raise hamas to a new dimension. in this respect, we cannot in any way support this type of support for terrorism, but we must stand up for democracy, human rights and freedom of expression and defend the democratic state of israel and the justification for its existence.
mr president, it is good that we were able to bring the chebeya bahiziré case to the plenary so quickly. first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the family of that brave man who risked his life for democracy and human rights. chebeya bahizire frequently reports being under surveillance and surveillance by the authorities. but the international community, which admired his work, was unable to protect him. the killings are part of a growing trend of harassment and intimidation of human rights defenders, journalists and members of the political opposition in the democratic republic of the congo. several journalists and human rights activists have been killed in the country in the last five years. as our resolution emphasizes, it is important that the authorities have accepted the wish of the family of chebeya bahizi to have an autopsy performed by completely external experts. it is also essential to appoint an independent and impartial committee to investigate both the death of chebeya bahizi and the fate of his missing driver. thirdly, it stresses the need for the drc to fight corruption and bring to justice human rights violations, starting with those committed by its own army and police forces.
mr president, the nearly ten-year civil war between the malian fighters and the then royal nepalese army ended in 2006 with a peace agreement. no winners or losers were declared in the situation. this was a unique situation, for the maoris were not accompanied by an army controlled by the king, but by other political parties. nepal continues to address the problems of promoting the peace process. many agreements are waiting to be fulfilled and the unrest has increased. the most important issue in the bilateral peace process was the question of the national army, its size and its leadership. the army should be placed under democratic control. assistance must be provided to nepal in integrating former maoris into the national army and security forces and other missions. the un should act swiftly on the human rights violations committed by the nepalese peacekeepers. the national human rights commission of nepal deserves credit for its valuable work. the international community must strive to contribute in a consistent manner to the resolution of critical issues. the future of the peace agreement, however, is in the hands of nepalese decision-makers.
mr president, the eu is in informal negotiations with libya with the aim of a cooperation agreement covering migration issues. this is very problematic and worrying in the present circumstances, as libya has not shown any concrete will to respect international human rights conventions. libya has also not ratified the geneva convention and does not have a national asylum system. as we have heard, 18 people were executed in libya on 30 may and it is estimated that more than 200 people are awaiting execution. both those executed in may and those awaiting execution include foreigners. in negotiating a cooperation agreement between the eu and libya, we must require libya to ratify and implement the geneva convention on the status and rights of refugees and to respect the other major human rights treaties it has signed. i call on the libyan government to allow the un refugee agency to coordinate and assist in the establishment of a national asylum system for refugees in the country.
in writing. mr president, i would like to make a few comments on the agenda for the summit. one key theme has been linked to the post-copenhagen agenda. the commission has repeatedly stated that moving from a 20% reduction target to 30% would now be somewhat more advantageous as a result of the economic downturn. this is a strange kind of logic: numbers are taken out of context, out of circumstance. they don't understand that the threshold for action is higher than that. who could take the commission's logical reasoning seriously after such speeches? but above all: the condition for raising the reduction target has always been the widening of the emissions reduction front and a comprehensive global agreement. anyone who knows anything about the matter will understand that otherwise the reductions will be wasted and will only benefit the producers of the marketed electricity, not the environment. only a gradual reduction will have the right effect and not lead to a shift of production towards more polluting conditions. that is why our group will be very critical of these speeches on the budget. they're against the directive. if the directive is opened, we demand that it be opened properly and that the whole number scale from zero be taken into consideration. i myself have long thought that the quantitative figures we have set are not necessarily the most effective way of reducing emissions. the commission has, in a way, acknowledged this when it said that china and the usa are going to overtake us. why would i do that? because they may have a more realistic decarbonisation policy. how long can europe continue with this 'follow me, i'm behind you' policy? secondly, on economic governance, i would say that europe needs more targeted, better regulation, not more regulation per se.
mr president, it is very important to talk about passenger rights. we could also talk about the duties of passengers, because whenever we talk about rights, we should remember that duties and rights go hand in hand. i believe that not only passengers but also the member states of the european union have certain obligations in relation to passenger rights. in some regions, such as northern finland, lapland, northern sweden, swedish lapland and a few other sparsely populated areas, it would be very important to ensure that there are comprehensive bus or public transport connections, as mobility is a fundamental right. i am thinking particularly of the ageing population. many of them have services dozens of miles away. it is therefore very important that when we talk about passenger rights, we also take care of the rights of those people who are far from basic services, and not only look at things in a competitive or market-based way, but also at the national level, so that regional and local scheduled transport can be compensated and thus made profitable.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr iturgaiz angulo, on an excellent report. i am not a member of the committee, but this report gives a good idea of the work of the committee and also of the usefulness of the appeal procedure. the appeal procedure is useful, although it is not well known among the public. it's a lot of work. it will be enough even after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the launch of this new citizens' initiative. when discussing the rules of the game of the citizens' initiative, it is worth learning from the work of the committee on petitions and not reinventing the wheel twice. on the other hand, citizens should also be informed as widely as possible that a petition is different from a citizens' initiative.
in writing. the starting points of the report, the european labour market model, the maintenance and development of the existing employment contracts and the tripartite system, and the correction of the problems associated with atypical and shadow economy work are all worthy objectives. in the current rapid change in working life, unusual employment relationships have unfortunately become commonplace. it is very important to look at what is happening on the worker-entrepreneur axis at this time. while lowering the thresholds for entrepreneurship, it is also important to ensure that workers are not outsourced as so-called entrepreneurs, who are put at a disadvantage in terms of, among other things, social security and redundancy protection. in recent years, there has been a sharp increase in atypical employment relationships, particularly among younger and older workers and women. this is also a worrying sign that these groups are the first to have to change their working conditions or even their jobs. the problems of atypical employment relationships have been the subject of much debate in the various eu institutions. in addition to speeches, reports and common provisions, the member states of the european union have a duty to set an example. the member states should commit themselves not to promote and maintain unnecessarily atypical employment relationships in their own public sectors.
mr president, it is very important that we strive to create a sustainable future for transport and thus ensure that transport emissions are also lower in the future, despite the fact that at present, when we look at the whole, transport is a small factor, less than 10%. but all in all, it's important that when we create a sustainable future, it happens across all sectors. i think it is very important to ensure that the same rules can apply throughout the european union. there are some problems at the moment: as we know, for example, shipping has different regulations in different regions. in this respect, it is necessary to ensure that the same rules apply throughout the european union when savings are made and a sustainable future for transport is envisaged. it is very important that we can also invest in research, technology and innovation in order to find ways of transporting people and also to reduce emissions from transport in the future.
mr president, it is very important that young people's access to the labour market is facilitated and promoted, and it is important that mrs turunen has drawn up a report on this and that parliament has adopted it, but that alone is not enough. we need a strong change of attitude, not only in parliament but also in the member states, because we know that youth unemployment has gone too far. it is up to about 20% in the european union and we cannot go on like this. so we need practical action, both in the member states and at the level of the union, not so much different resolutions and speeches, but practical action. the labour market is currently not functioning and for some reason young people are not entering the labour market or they lack experience. it is now very important to create pathways, opportunities for young people to gain access to better employment and thus to build a more sustainable future and a more hopeful outlook. i hope that this report will not just be left to rest but will also be implemented in the member states and thus help to alleviate the situation of young people.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have acted as shadow rapporteur on the latter report and i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur for the good cooperation. after the massive financial crisis, it is probably only natural that we should review the remuneration policy in this sector. at the same time, it must be said that there is no doubt that the issue has become politically interesting and even populist. it is clear that there is a need for principles that promote and guide a sound remuneration policy. we know that there have been individual cases where the policy of remuneration may have given rise to the problems we have seen in recent years. at the same time, we must avoid making gross generalizations and blaming the sector as a whole. it may be helpful to remember that it is hardly in the interest of any individual company to encourage excessive risk-taking. i am therefore also glad that we were finally able to agree on the comply or explain principle. we were able to get a relatively balanced result in the end. i think this is a good thing, although i think that in principle we as politicians should not go into as much detail as we do in this case.
mr president, this directive on industrial emissions does indeed introduce stricter limits on particulate matter, nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide. this is at least necessary for both human health and the environment. after this directive, the situation will not be good anywhere in europe. i am particularly sorry that the number and size of the exceptions in this compromise were so large. it is time to stop imagining that we are doing our industry or our competitiveness a favour when, on the contrary, we should be investing in green growth, resource efficiency and clean competitiveness to implement the eu 2020 strategy, for example. the second regrettable aspect of this report is that we are not making progress on emissions and competence in the field of soil. i hope that the commission will be able to take swift and effective action on the soil directive, given the difficulty of the situation. of course there's a good compromise. i am particularly pleased that the principle of best available technology has been introduced, even though the european safety nets, the minimum standards, were only left for needs assessment, particularly with regard to exceptions. i think it is particularly important to note that this directive does not, of course, prevent a member state from applying stricter and better legislation, including on greenhouse gases. i hope that in future, when the revision of the directive becomes relevant, the commission will also include co2 emissions in integrated environmental monitoring, because that is the right and effective way of dealing with the matter.
mr president, unfortunately this important legislative reform was overshadowed by the climate and energy package in autumn 2008. that is a pity, because this is a directive of enormous importance both for air quality and for the eu industry. i did everything i could to make sure that this significance was not negative, that it was not expensive, without the environmental benefits that it brings. it is a pity that the opinion of the committee on industry was not consulted, although the directive obviously falls within its field of competence. even if we reach a reasonable compromise, companies will have to invest in treatment technology that may not be available. the factories will be closed prematurely and the cost to the consumer will be considerable. it is good, however, that the compromise takes account of the need for flexibility of old, under-performing institutions. the premature closure of installations would be a cost that would not be covered by the environmental benefits. it is also good that the green-led co2 emission limits have not been exceeded, because the overlapping controls with emissions trading are already too much.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank very warmly the original rapporteur, caroline lucas, and the other negotiators from the political groups for the exceptionally good cooperation. i also thank spain, which negotiated on behalf of the council of ministers, and the commission. both the commission and the council have significantly changed their initial positions, with the result that the eu is now closing its market to illegally harvested wood. this internationally significant breakthrough would not have been possible without the strong support of a majority in parliament for the prohibition of illegal timber. the first to place a timber product on the eu market has now been agreed to a clear ban. this operator must be aware of the origin of the wood. the obligation to document the place where the wood or wood product was purchased and where it was resold is imposed on dealers. this makes it possible to determine, for example, the origin of the wood used in the furniture. parliament would have wanted the ban to cover the whole chain, not just the first seller. however, the consulted regulation contains a directive on the next steps in the sales chain and on the supervisory bodies not to act against the objectives of the law. all parties must therefore take responsibility for ensuring that no illegal timber is sold in the eu. i regret that the council did not agree to list this regulation under the environmental crime directive. i strongly urge the commission to update the directive as soon as possible to include the latest environmental legislation. the most serious violations of the prohibition on the sale of illegal timber shall be treated as criminal offences. parliament's negotiators were concerned about the concept of negligible risk, which was introduced into the legal text by the council. we have looked at the contexts in which this concept appears in the current legislation. it seems to mean a risk which is practically zero, for example in the laws on genetically modified micro-organisms, bse, food hygiene, cosmetics, pesticides, etc. the parliament therefore accepts the concept of negligible risk, understanding it to mean a risk which is practically zero. i would also like to mention the shortcomings of the law, which excludes printed matter. i fear that this could become a large and growing loophole and an incentive to outsource the printing of books and magazines to, say, turkey or china. 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions are caused by deforestation, a large proportion of which is illegal logging. they also destroy biodiversity. we lose potential drugs, for example, because of illegal logging before they've even had a chance to study them. the eu has been preaching against illegal timber for years, but at the same time hypocritically offering it one of the largest markets. so, despite the rhetoric, the eu has contributed to the destruction of the world's natural forests. the eu's move to ban the placing on the market of illegally harvested timber is a breakthrough of international significance and a great example of how the eu can, through its own actions, be part of the solution to a global problem. with this legislation, we support all countries that want to bring illegal logging under control in their own territory.
mr president, this is a major step forward in terms of responsible use of resources, international responsibility, climate policy, biodiversity and human living conditions. it shows that the european union can be an effective international actor with its own internal legislation, as can the ecodesign directive. the result achieved is certainly better than the disadvantages of the compromise, but as rapporteur satu hassik has pointed out, i would like to stress that the main shortcoming here is the lack of sanctions, the absence of sanctions at european level and minimum level, and also the fact that the regulation has not been incorporated at this stage in the environmental offences directive, either in respect of illegal logging or the related trade. i hope that the commission will make its proposals on this as soon as possible. in the same way, it is absolutely essential that printed matter should be included in this regulation in the future.
mr president, these illegal logging operations must be stopped and fought. i am sure we can all agree on that. however, i cannot fully support this compromise, in particular the fact that a certain responsibility for verifying the origin of the wood is imposed on every operator in the chain. i think that this is also due to the very great fear that this will lead to more bureaucracy, both for forestry companies and for forest owners. that should never be the intention. in implementing this regulation, we must also ensure that the already very comprehensive certification in several countries is valid and that we do not start to create an overlapping verification method which adds to the bureaucracy and is a kind of burden on our competitiveness in the forestry sector. it is also important that we do not put wood in a weaker position than other materials. it's here now, too, in fear.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a very important issue that we have on the table, and it is easy to agree with what has been said here tonight. at the same time, as my colleague riikka manner has just said, this work is unfortunately forgetting the fact that we have a very sustainable forestry production and forestry in northern europe, particularly in the nordic countries. unfortunately, this is being forgotten in the pursuit of the important objectives of preventing the import of illegal timber into the european market. this is a prime example of how we shouldn't work. i am grateful to my colleague, mr satu hassi, and others for the good work they have done in the trialogue. i will therefore be able to vote in favour of this tomorrow. at the same time, we must learn from this that when we do an important thing, as we were about to do here, and as we are doing now, and finally get a good regulation to prevent the import of illegal timber, we must not forget that it may have an impact on our own production in this particular sector. we have a lot of work to do in this area in the future. we must try to avoid the problems we have in this particular area.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to everyone who has joined us in this debate at this late hour. i was involved in the situation to which chris davies referred, in a discussion with the then development commissioner, where this then commissioner considered legislation such as the one now being negotiated to be impossible. i'm glad we've made possible what he thought was impossible back then. both the commissioner and his colleagues have spoken well of all the disadvantages of illegal logging. many of my colleagues have known and are aware of the concerns about bureaucracy. i would like to remind everyone, however, that the bureaucratic requirement for everyone except the first person to place wood or wood products on the market is extremely light: just to know and be able to show where you have bought and where you have sold them on. the companies must have the necessary documents. this is required, for example, by vat legislation. i am pleased that many companies have supported the ban on illegal timber, for example in the packaging and furniture industries. i have also received messages from the timber trade unions supporting this and telling me about the competitive disadvantage that has been caused by the large amount of illegal timber on our market. as my colleagues have said, this law must be properly implemented and i am in favour of keeping a record of the way in which member states impose sanctions. they must be very effective in preventing misuse in advance.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i speak finnish and nordic. iceland is an independent, sovereign state, and you make the decision. my advice to you is, don't do this to yourself. you are much more valuable as part of europe, but outside the european union. outside the european union, there is a very intelligent and prosperous life in europe in norway, switzerland, iceland. we have had this experience in finland for 15 years now and i am not at all satisfied. the influence of a small country is non-existent here, the big countries are in disarray. you have a lot of good in your country, you certainly meet the criteria: a strong nordic democracy, where referendums do not mock democracy. when norway said 'no' in 1994, there was no vote again. when sweden said no to giving up the crown, there was no vote again. but in the rest of europe, if the vote is not correct, they vote again in a year. don't do this to yourselves!
mr president, my own group voted in favour of stricter regulation of novel foods because i believe that we do not yet have enough information, for example, on the effects of nanotechnology on food production. the position of parliament on the prohibition of the use of cloned animals as food is very important, because, for example, cloned animals produced for research purposes have been found to have unexpectedly high rates of muscular dystrophy, malformations and rapid cell ageing, and the animals' life expectancy has been very short. in nanotechnology, we don't know all the changes that technology causes at the cellular level. therefore, these novel foods must also be subject to the same and as comprehensive clinical trials as, for example, new medicines. it would also be important that, in contrast to current practice, food classified as essentially equivalent should be labelled with a label indicating nanotechnology or genetic engineering, giving the consumer the choice of whether or not to take the risk.
mr president, i voted in favour of the removal of meat from cloned animals from the european diet and from the european market. and i can tell you that it's easy as a pro-life person like this. it's about defending life, defending healthy life. it is not just about animal rights, but also about human welfare, not just animal welfare. it is very important that we ensure that clean food is available to all consumers and not that this market-drivenness alone is the driving force behind consumer behaviour. it is important to remember that the research on meat from cloned animals is not yet well known, nor is nanotechnology. on the contrary, there are some indications that these health effects are not merely positive. it is claimed that the change in the diet has also contributed to so-called foodborne illnesses. we must take care of the health of our citizens, health care and, through this, clean, safe food for the citizens of europe.
mr president, the eu's intention to eradicate and prevent illegal timber and timber products from entering our market is a good one and that is why i voted in favour of the regulation. but there is hope in the implementation, and i would like to mention it in this way. for legal forestry operators, illegal logging is a clear handicap that must be eliminated. however, countermeasures must be carefully considered so as not to impede the activities of those who are doing the right thing. it should be remembered that the majority of wood used in the eu comes from within the eu legally. the problems are outside. it is therefore frustrating if we set up such strict control systems for ourselves that we weaken the competitiveness of the industry operating in the eu without being able to tackle the problem itself. the ban on illegally harvested timber on our market may sound good, but it will be a surprise to those in the industry in practice. traceability requirements have previously been handled by accounting, where companies in the chain know what they buy and from whom and to whom they sell. when these requirements are now extended to the whole chain of operations, it seems that we are trying to act here, even though the problem is raging elsewhere. once again, the eu is kicking itself when it should be making the world a better place.
mr president, i finally voted in favour of this report as instructed by my group, although i must say that there were populist elements in it which i personally do not consider to be good legislation. of course, no one wants the banks to fall into the taxpayers' pockets. it is clear that general rules are needed, but i do not think that this type of precise regulation, for example on bonus payments, is a matter for european union legislation, but must be dealt with at national level and is ultimately a matter for the banks to decide. it is clear that there can be a general ethical debate about what is reasonable and what is not, but i know that there are different views among the 27 member states of the european union on what is reasonable and what is not. but why did i vote for this report? there are also good parts, like the new capital rules and so on. it is obvious that care will be taken to ensure that the banking system can be placed on a sound footing and be able to shoulder its responsibilities better. none of us wants to see the kind of crises that we have seen in the banking sector in the future.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. i think it is excellent that the commission has made rapid progress in opening accession negotiations since the application was received. iceland's membership would strengthen cooperation and the weight of the arctic region in eu policy. however, in the end, it is up to iceland to decide whether it will become a member. it's one of the oldest democracies in the world, and it's a functioning democracy. however, the negotiations will be difficult. agriculture, regional policy and, in particular, whaling - commercial whaling and the sale of whale meat, mainly to japan - is an area where the eu must also consider how to proceed in these negotiations.
in writing. − article 12(2): i do not support the authority leading the college of supervisors (article 12(2), first sentence), nor do i support the authority leading in going concerns (article 12(2)(c)). the authorities should not have the right to freely replace the rights of national authorities (as guaranteed in the capital requirements directive). the wording of this article as proposed by the econ committee and the rapporteurs is not precise and could lead to a high degree of confusion between the authorities at national level and at european level. article 12a(4): i do not support this amendment. article 12a(5): i do not support this amendment. article 12b: i do not support this amendment. the definition of the identification of cross-border institutions that could pose systemic risk is unclear and puts national authorities in an unclear position with regards to their rights as supervisors. article 12c: i do not support the creation of a resolution unit within the remit of these directives. while i in principle support the idea of a unit of this kind, the creation of a resolution unit requires much more preparatory work, thorough impact assessments and detailed regulation of its own. (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 170)
for the verts/ale group mr president, i would like to express my satisfaction with the outcome of these negotiations, particularly because i believe that the human rights aspect has been fully taken into account in this interinstitutional agreement. i would also like to encourage the high representative to act effectively in the spirit of this treaty. i am very pleased that there is now a clear unit at central level, a department responsible for the consideration of human rights in all our external relations. we must ensure that this department is at the highest possible level so that it can really influence all external relations. it was also agreed that all eu delegations abroad would have human rights officers to ensure that these issues are addressed at local level. we must now also ensure that a new approach emerges between parliament and the foreign affairs council and the high representative, in keeping with the spirit of the lisbon treaty, which means that we want to make a more coherent and stronger foreign policy in the world.
in writing. with the construction of the external action service, it has become clear that parliamentary scrutiny extends to the european external action service. parliament has played a significant role in the process. the eu now has structures but no functioning foreign policy. the old adage is true: the eu is a dwarf in foreign policy. there is no sign of the eu. and the next thing you need is results. the eu's external relations budget is small in relation to other eu expenditure. the eu budget should not be increased for the sake of bureaucracy, especially in times of crisis, although the small size of some of the external relations budget items speaks volumes about the appreciation of the common foreign policy within the eu. the question now is whether catherine ashton is capable of building a common foreign policy for the eu. but this is not about ashton. it is about the large member states of the eu. so far, france, germany and the united kingdom have not spoken with one voice.
for the verts/ale group mr president, it is of the utmost importance that we really find out to the root of these violence. i have been reading the thoughts of alain délétrozi, vice-president of the international crisis group. he said that these events were similar to what had happened in the 1990s in the western balkans. these horrors, which have been reported here and which we can read about in the newspapers, are reminiscent of the appalling atrocities seen in the western balkans. there is reason to believe that these actions are being provoked. we cannot be at all sure that these are genuine ethnic tensions, but they are more likely to be provoked political tensions arising from the fact that southern kyrgyzstan is a very poor and deprived region. i would like to draw the attention of the high representative and commissioner georgieva in particular to the fact that human rights defenders are now in a difficult position. i think that the commission is looking for the wrong people in the wrong place. there are testimonies that certain people who went to collect evidence and document these atrocities were themselves targeted by the authorities. i have personally appealed on behalf of human rights defender azimzham askarov. because he was arrested, and i understand he's still in custody. he has specifically collected evidence of how these atrocities have occurred. in that sense, he may be a danger to some. i would ask the commission and the high representative to pay particular attention to the possibilities for human rights organisations to operate, since they are probably the ones most likely to be able to find out what is really happening and to try to bring about peace and stability.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i will wholeheartedly support what has been said by the three colleagues from three other political groups about hiv and aids and i would also like to thank the high representative for her approach to this question. the resolution that we are going to adopt tomorrow will be a very important contribution to the 18th international aids conference, which will be held in vienna later this month. there we can indeed emphasise how important it is that the european union is going to work with those countries who still have laws and policies which are real obstacles to taking care of people who have hiv/aids. these are important obstacles in the prevention of this disease. in our resolution we state that there are still 106 countries of this kind. it is a major task in our foreign policy and our development policy to emphasise that we need evidence-based approaches to hiv/aids. we should deal with prejudiced ideas and discrimination that still exist. it is very sad to see that many countries still criminalise same-sexual behaviour. we have to tell these countries that it is not something that can be adopted on the basis of traditions and culture. it is about treating human beings in a decent way, it is about their rights, and the rights-based approach is the right one.
i also voted in favour of this report by mr alvaro. i think it is very important that we can work together to combat terrorism, and it is very important that nations with the same values can work together. it is important to strengthen the transatlantic relationship between the european union and the united states, and as we know, we share the same values. it is clear that data protection legislation must be respected here, but there must also be a limit, namely that we cannot rely on data protection in cases of terrorism. it must be very clear at this point. i believe and hope that this will enable us to continue our fight against terrorism and thus bring more peace to this world.
in the vote on the establishment of the union's external relations administration, i supported the amendments which emphasize the involvement of national parliaments in the control of the external relations administration. otherwise, i voted in line with my group's position. the need is clear: it is time for the eu to be more clearly identified as a global contributor and a global actor. change is necessary, as our all-too-subtle role as the un's largest donor has shown. i hope, by the way, that this change of role will also be reflected in the structure of the un security council. it would be desirable for such international communities to be able to update their understanding of current global structures.
i voted in favour of this report on european external relations, mr president, because i know that this is a consequence of the lisbon reform. nevertheless, i do have some questions and some concerns about this new administration. because right at the beginning, when we started building this, we said this would be cost-neutral. but now we all know that it will cost european taxpayers very dearly. it is clear, of course, that the high representative needs resources. but when we build new institutions, new systems, it would be good to tell us what is at stake at the outset, so that we do not give the wrong impression that we are moving forward through a little white lie. what concerns me is that the voice of the large member states is only being strengthened by this administration. i therefore hope that when people are elected to the various posts, the whole of europe can be involved in a balanced way and that the national parliaments of europe can also be involved in this administration. this would ensure a fairer administration.
i must say, mr president, that i voted in favour of this report by mr george lyon. in a few places i made national reservations or voted a little differently. it must be borne in mind that, although this lyon report is very good and comprehensive on agriculture and its reform in the european union, despite the fact that finland is a small nation, where the conditions for farming are very different from those in large member states, such as france or germany, the common agricultural policy is not in all respects directly compatible. that is why i made a few exceptions in this vote. i hope that in the future the european parliament and the union will also be able to pay greater attention to small farms, small countries and the agriculture they carry out, because agriculture is a kind of national life insurance. each member state needs its own agriculture and must take care to preserve it.
mr president, i voted in favour of the lyon report. it is balanced and it guarantees and secures the possibility for all of europe to be able to farm, to produce food and thus to ensure food for its citizens. there were a few points on which i voted differently from my group, because i believe that in certain situations market regulation and intervention are necessary. they are necessary to ensure food security and also sustainable development.
the author. mr president, human rights violations in zimbabwe have been on the agenda of this parliament before. unfortunately, we are dealing with them again - this time with the case of human rights activist farai maguwu. he's a prisoner of conscience. he has been arrested and imprisoned for defending the human rights of others and then providing information to the media. the european parliament wants to call for his release, for all human rights violations in zimbabwe to be investigated and, of course, for them to be stopped. this case is particularly clear, and in that sense it can also be said to be a vicious one, that a person who defends the human rights of others is himself suffering.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am happy that the european parliament has put the case of judge afiuni on its agenda and is raising its voice against human rights violations in venezuela. what is more, i urge the venezuelan government to respect the people of venezuela, as well as the international human rights charters, and take genuine steps towards true democracy where human rights and the rule of law are and will be respected. judge afiuni’s case is a sad reminder of venezuela’s negative attitude towards human rights. judge afiuni’s detention is a violation of her basic personal rights and a very serious threat to the independence of judicial power.
mr president, six months ago we had our last discussion here of the continuing deterioration of the democratic situation in venezuela. the government's attacks on press and internet freedom, including the closure of newspapers, radio stations, websites and television stations, are particularly bad. we probably don't know all the facts, but in any case, we have to look at the fundamental problems of the situation. in the face of president chavez's public persecution of afiun, chavez has taken on a role that attacks the independence of the judiciary, which he should be its first protector. the separation of powers is the foundation of a democratic and constitutional state and freedom of the media is essential for democracy and respect for fundamental freedoms. the free public expression of opinions and ideas guarantees participation in the democratic process and makes possible free and fair elections and good governance. i hope no one here will object to this.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent and balanced report. we have a great deal of security in the form of a functioning and pan-european agriculture and food production. it is not, therefore, a traditional trade area which we can subordinate to the market, as has been said here on many occasions. the future of agriculture as a whole is at stake. the investments which young farmers, among others, have to make in agriculture today to maintain their farming activities are very large and significant. in order to have the courage to invest and take risks in the future, we need a stable income for farmers and a fair return on their work. it is now a fact that the trade has a greater say in many cases. this is a test for the producer. the report highlights very important elements of the solution for a fairer income level for farmers and i hope that they can also be taken to the practical level.
madam president, i would like to thank you. last year, the european parliament's fisheries committee voted against renewing the fisheries partnership agreements with guinea following a massacre in the capital conakry. this autumn and in august we have been preparing for elections in guinea. it is the first genuinely democratic election since 1958. the eu has happily provided election observers and now one of our colleagues is there leading one of the operations to monitor the elections and check that they are being held democratically. this part of the world needs the support of the eu. in the neighbouring country of guinea-bissau we have seen drug trafficking and other activities whose final destination is de facto europe and where the drugs originate in latin america. the elections in guinea have proved so inconvenient that the second round has been postponed until 19 september because of widespread electoral fraud. it is important that we in parliament take note of this and make efforts to support the situation in west africa.
the rapporteur. - mr president, in the reports of the european union and the member states, ageing is unfortunately often seen as a negative phenomenon, a burden and a burden in terms of pension payments, services or the necessary healthcare and medication costs. in reality, however, ageing and the rights of the elderly are not only fundamental rights but also a phenomenon that greatly enriches society. the elderly are very much in the informal care of their spouses, relatives or children. they also have a wealth of knowledge and tacit knowledge in both the working and social communities. not to mention that the elderly are a very important consumption resource, and not just a negative burden. the charter of fundamental rights and the legal approach to ageing require that we not treat ageing or older people with a negative attitude, but with a respectful positive attitude. this becomes a particular challenge for women and older women. ageing is also a very important women's issue and an issue of equality, as women are living longer, women are more likely to participate in informal care and women are often employed in the social and health care sector, i.e. in sectors responsible for the private or public care of elderly people. women also often experience double or triple discrimination. in the workplace, it is more difficult for an ageing woman to advance in her career or to find employment after being laid off. this is especially true in the health and services sectors, where the elderly woman is an ethnic, sexual or religious minority or otherwise a member of a group with a particularly low socioeconomic status. women are also more likely to become impoverished as they age, and their earnings are often lower. unfortunately, this gender sensitivity has been largely ignored in ageing studies in the european union. in the case of health care, medical research or disease research, the differences between women and men have often not been brought up. the report therefore calls on the commission to draw up an action programme by the end of 2011 to ensure that more resources are devoted to the research needed to understand ageing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. calls for the identification and treatment of age-related and gender-related diseases, and in particular for an annual report on age discrimination and on the actions taken and being taken at european union and national level to eliminate age discrimination; in 2012, new measures will be required to eliminate age discrimination in the european union. i thank my colleagues in the committee for the good cooperation and i expect the commission to take effective action on the issue of older women and ageing.
mr president, when i listened to mr barroso's speech, it was a working paper. i wonder if the problem with the eu is that it is not possible to analyse the state of the union from within the eu. there were a lot of good intentions in the speech, but there was no concrete action. i am thinking, for example, of the part where barroso promised that the eu would defend small and mediumsized enterprises. it was kind of familiar, but when i look back over the years, i haven't seen any shows. i hope they come now. the second area in which i would like to see some concrete action is foreign policy. the problem is that the member states do not give room to the eu representatives. now that the next g20 meeting is coming up, i hear france is chairing it. what the hell? the eu representative, the eu should be there! i think that this issue must be raised and if the eu wants to speak with a new voice, then the eu representative must speak and we must have a debate on this.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human dignity, tolerance and openness are among the fundamental values of the european union. the free movement of people is another of the eu's pillars. the lisbon treaty gives the charter of fundamental rights a legally binding status, which further strengthens the human rights dimension of the union. the situation of europe's roma shows that there is still a lot to be done in terms of equality and the realisation of fundamental rights in everyday life. as regards legal instruments at european level, one of the problems is that the commission, despite the legal binding nature of the charter, cannot intervene in areas which are not within its competence, at least not in its current form. the equality directive, which is stuck in the council and which prohibits all forms of discrimination, is in my view one of the most important tools for combating discrimination against roma and many other europeans. there are several vulnerable groups, including the elderly and sexual minorities. it is important to ensure the horizontal coverage of the directive, so that both active and passive discrimination on all grounds without loopholes and exceptions are prohibited. in a european civilised society that respects human rights and equality, there is no place for discrimination: everyone deserves equal opportunities to participate in society. the basic rights must be implemented immediately, not five or ten years from now.
madam president, firstly i would like to convey my sympathy to the people of pakistan over the tragic loss of lives. i would also like to thank commissioner georgieva for her devoted work in making pakistan an urgent priority on her agenda. it took the world and the eu some time to comprehend the full scale of the disaster. now as we understand better the needs of the affected people, our response should be urgent and match those needs. we need to provide more financial and material assistance while ensuring that help will reach everyone, including minorities, according to their needs. we must also not forget that pakistan is a frontline country in the international war on extremism and terrorism. if we fail to assist them, then poverty and despair may strengthen militancy. a one-off humanitarian assistance effort will not do. it should be combined with help to rebuild the country’s infrastructure – roads, bridges, schools, etc. we also need to take urgent measures to help pakistan in reviving its economy and trade. enhanced market access for pakistani exports and new debt arrangements could turn the tide. eu member states should seriously reconsider debt trade-off as a way to offer help in this tragedy.
mr president, the cost levels in the member states should not be increased by government or european union measures. there are no green taxes, there are no blue taxes, there are no red taxes, there are only taxes paid by the people. the cost of living is poison to employment. every time the cost goes up, it's gonna eat up jobs. the european union and the european central bank do not currently have an independent policy on interest rates. this makes it difficult for member states to maintain their economies when they are unable to pursue fiscal policies. despite these unpleasant things, we need a policy for growth and employment. the individual product and the quality of the product are what make finnish and european work successful. competition rules must be fair, honest and transparent. the finnish working in finland is a key issue for us and for every other member state. national work for export and for the people themselves, that's the recipe for success.
mr president, thank you for your speech. until a few years ago, europe was also governed by a doctrine, ultraliberalism, which said that politics only interferes with the functioning of the market and that the market decides. we're in a situation where politics matters. politics will decide things and it is very important that we now have progress in financial supervision. it is very important that the distortions in budget statistics which have occurred should be exposed. everything is open, and i think that openness is one of the key words for reform. the truth of schuman's original message is now being confirmed: the european union develops through crises. the european union will gain its credibility precisely by achieving concrete results. we are now taking these concrete steps.
i too voted in favour of the elisabeth jeggle directive on the protection of animals and i think it is very important that we in the european parliament also have a deep concern for the protection of animals. however, it is also worth remembering that this proposal is a good compromise, combining animal protection and scientific research. however, we still need some animal testing because no alternative methods have been found. however, it is very important to ensure that animal experiments are carried out under good conditions and that they cause the least possible inconvenience, pain and suffering. this is a very good step, since we know that the previous directive dates from 1986. i hope that it will be implemented in all the member states of the eu and that we will thus have a uniform practice that will promote animal welfare but also provide opportunities for the advancement of scientific research.
mr president, i did not vote for this legislation on experimental animals to be referred back to committee because i do not think that the result would have been better afterwards. instead, i voted in favour of all three amendments. i think it is very worrying that in europe the protection of experimental animals is actually almost taking a step backwards. a number of improved methods for obtaining results without the use of laboratory animals are already in use in several member states. this practice would in fact slow down the development of alternative methods. similarly, studies have shown that the use of pet animals, even in extreme situations, does not produce the result for human health that is assumed in the explanatory memorandum.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report and i really hope that it will help to save sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani's life. i am a little skeptical, as are many others here, because we know that unfortunately totalitarian states, such as iran, do not listen to our appeals very much. i am also a little concerned, as was one of the previous speakers, that there has been very little communication on the human rights issue, but a great deal of communication on animal rights. of course, that's an important area, but these things should be put on the right scale. the european union's core mission is to defend human rights and fundamental values. i really hope that this report will help to further our commitment to being the promoter and upholder of human rights in totalitarian countries such as iran, and thus to bring about a real end to the brutal death penalty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the directive on experimental animals, because the outcome could have been much worse for animal welfare. the directive adopted today is a further step towards animal welfare. the directive must now be transposed and implemented in a uniform manner in the various member states as quickly as possible. the old directive dates back to 1986, so it is high time to update the level of welfare of laboratory animals throughout europe. it is important that in future, efforts be increased, particularly in the development of alternative methods to animal testing. thank you!
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a7-0210/2010), after reading the resolution, any person with a clear conscience will be able to see why the subject is stirring strong emotions in europe, so i do not feel it necessary to go into the wording of the resolution in this explanatory statement. the situation in iran, while at present serving as a visible and warning example of the poor state of human rights, should not, however, be allowed to distract attention from the fact that similar and more serious problems exist in almost the entire third world. the repression is particularly systematic and widespread in areas under the influence of the sharia legal system. i am aware that the position of the european union and the western world on the human rights situation in certain countries has been public knowledge for some time without any significant progress being made. i therefore believe it is important that the european union continue to put pressure on iran and other problem countries in the field of human rights in the future.
mr president, personally i have dedicated a lot of my political career to promoting transparency in political decision making, but i can also rather easily see that this draft bill is very selective in its attempts to create transparency. in the subcommittee on human rights, in june, we actually had ngos from israel and we asked them about this law. they were concerned. we also heard other views and i personally had correspondence with the israeli ambassador to the european union about this bill. so i would say that the work that we have done in parliament on this oral question in the subcommittee has helped create the conditions for a sound public debate, which will have an impact. but, above all, what impressed me in that hearing in the subcommittee was the good spirit in which the israeli and palestinian ngos work with one another. i think we should find new ways to support their cooperation, because that could play a very important role in the peace process.
mr president, the principle of the draft bill is that foreign government funding for ngos should be fully transparent. do we have a problem with transparency? hopefully not. in most eu member states we have legislation about ngo funding and its transparency as well as the funding of political parties. in finland, for example, we have just passed a law about the funding of political parties by which we wanted to prohibit all kinds of foreign funding except from european sister-parties. we do not want foreign forces to be able to buy influence in finnish political life. all we politicians would be very astonished if some fellow european member state government started funding our national ngos for political campaigns. at least we would like to know the source of the money and the possible motives. the quartet representative tony blair pointed out the double standards so commonly applied in european attitudes towards israel in his speech last week in herzliya. he said, do not apply rules to the government of israel that you would never dream of applying to your own country. so the european parliament should support israeli legislators in ensuring transparency rather than attacking with false accusations, and interfering in, a democratic legislative process. are we, as europeans, fully aware that eu-funded ngos’ projects do not always promote peace, but rather work against mutual understanding and create more distrust and hostility between israelis and palestinians? so this new legislation is important for european taxpayers as well, so that we will know how our money is spent in that area.
mr president, the question of opening up postal services to competition has raised concerns in many member states about the maintenance of the availability and quality of services. in a country like finland, for example, which is large but sparsely populated, there is a danger that competition will only be attractive to the more densely populated urban areas from which the economic benefits are to be derived. the cost of postal services in less profitable areas is left to the community. the distribution of sparsely populated areas is on average about four times more expensive than that of the more densely populated areas. in extreme cases, the difference may be as much as tenfold. nevertheless, some postal services in finland have already been opened up to competition. the directive aims to safeguard the level of service by imposing obligations on the holder of a universal service obligation. i would like to hear the commissioner's view on how genuine and equal competition can be achieved if the quality and service standards of the universal service obligation holder are significantly higher than those of competitors. how are the costs of providing the universal service to be covered? the directive provides for alternative ways of financing, the simplest of which is the financing of loss-making activities from taxation. however, this cannot be considered reasonable in the present state of public finances. the situation in finland is threatening to become downright absurd. the holder of the universal service obligation is a profitable state-owned company whose annual profit of around eur 100 million would be exchanged for state budget expenditure of a similar size, so that a few companies could profit from the profitable markets of the cities. this can be very difficult to explain to the taxpayers. i would also like to ask the commissioner whether it is possible within the framework of this directive to introduce, for example, a national postal service charge, which would allow all operators in the sector to raise funds in an equitable manner to ensure services, even in less profitable areas.
mr president, i voted for equal rights for all the member states of the european union. this includes roma. i understand that some people, including those in the epp, felt that this resolution was too much of a political instrument against france. it is quite true that we must look at things in such a way that we do not just make policy as an instrument, but that, as a community of values, we are really committed to taking care of our most vulnerable population. we know that the social participation of the roma population is currently low in many european countries and that solving this problem is therefore a common challenge for europeans, for the citizens of the european union. we cannot be credible in explaining to people outside europe how human rights should be handled if we do not ourselves take care of the situation of the roma in the european union. i hope that this will be reflected in concrete action in the european parliament. the european parliament has, of course, had various small pilot projects aimed at increasing the integration of roma into society, for example through education and so on. but sometimes it seems that this house does not allocate money from its budget for projects of this kind, but rather gives it to greece or to other countries or even to countries outside europe. we must now get the romanians' situation in the european union under control. it is a question of our credibility and the fundamental values for which the european union is built.
mr president, unfortunately i think this resolution was one-sided. we should remember, when we look at the situation in the middle east, that there is one democratic state which shares the same values as we in europe, namely israel. democracy, human rights and freedom of expression are core values. it would therefore be important that when we look at the situation in that region, we should also look at the overall situation and not just want to try in one way or another to damage the only democracy there. unfortunately, this is the picture that emerged when we talked about the jordan situation. we all know that the water resources of the region are limited. we also know that israel has made enormous efforts to create irrigation and water collection systems to ensure that the citizens have access to water both in israel and in the so-called palestinian territories and that agriculture is possible there. i hope our attitude is constructive. let us hope that the peace negotiations under way will lead to progress on the peace front. our attitude towards this region must be constructive and supportive, not blameworthy.
in writing. - mr president, mr filosfi schopenhauer advised us to use ordinary words and say unusual things. many people, especially politicians and legislators, do the exact opposite and are likely to go unnoticed. it is for this reason that the continuous review and improvement of legislative practice is always a critical point for the european union. i voted in favour of the geringer report on better regulation because it raises important issues for the development of legislation. first of all, parliament must bear in mind its own responsibility: too often the eu legislator's attention has led to the fact that a directive that is already in force has been exhausted in parliament by detailed amendments. the schopenhauer directive states that simple and transparent legislation does not mean less in content; complexity and casuism are often a way of concealing a lack of thought. secondly, i would like to refer to the impact assessment of the legislation. a number of major legislative initiatives such as the history of the emissions trading directive showed that there are serious shortcomings in impact assessment. in particular, when drafting environmental legislation, care must be taken: a problem solved in one place can create a new problem in another. as required by the resolution, the commission must regularly and comprehensively consult stakeholders for an objective assessment. i particularly welcome the sme test launched by the commission in its internal guidelines. thirdly, it should be noted that the national authorities often play a decisive role in reducing administrative burdens. i come from a country where the scrupulousness of the civil service in applying the legislation often leads to an extra burden. the responsibility of the member states cannot be ignored.
mr president, as a member of the international court of justice, you must adhere to your obligations and international law. in spite of these principles, kenya defied the court's decision to arrest the sudanese president. it's a tense situation, with a backdrop of both the past and the future. neighbouring countries prioritize good relations with sudan even at the expense of international law. at the same time, the millions of victims of the darfur conflict deserve justice and relief from their suffering. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the 2005 peace agreement, which will be followed by a key milestone: the january vote on self-government in south sudan. whatever the referendum brings, unrest is hard to avoid. a repeat of the darfur-wide disaster may be possible to prevent with reasonable means. that is why i now want to call for a greater role for the eu in sudan, in the context of criticism of the kenyan decision. we must show that the eu is strongly and concretely supporting the implementation of the peace agreement. the eu must also commit itself to election observation in the january referendum, from voter registration to the final counting of votes, and prepare for the state of emergency in south sudan.
mr president, genocide is a serious crime. the perpetrators, the doers and the planners must be brought to justice and convicted. the european union must put this matter at the top of the agenda at the next meeting between the european union and the african countries. the human rights situation and this serious genocide, which has affected hundreds of thousands, millions of people, must be investigated and the arrest warrant issued by the international criminal court must be executed. the eu should be involved in this work, assisting and implementing the arrest warrant and doing everything possible to ensure that it can be carried out.
author. − madam president, this resolution has not arrived a day too soon. for a long time i have followed the case of haythan al-maleh with concern. too often i have felt that not enough attention has been paid to his case. we have no time to waste: he is 80 years old, and i hear from his son, who has visited parliament, that his father’s health is deteriorating. mr al-maleh suffers from arthritis, diabetes and thyroid problems, and i understand that he is being deprived of access to medication. mr al-maleh was arbitrarily arrested by the general intelligence service on 14 october 2009. he was held incommunicado and tried before the second military court of damascus, despite the fact that military tribunals should not try civilians. on 4 july 2010, mr al-maleh was sentenced to three years in prison on the grounds of ‘transferring false and exaggerated news that weakens national sentiment’. colleagues, we should be aware that many countries are unfortunately using such titles for criminal charges nowadays. it is totally unacceptable. this happened under articles 285 and 286 of the syrian criminal code. such charges are clearly too vague and easy to abuse. they have no place in the jurisdiction of any modern state. serious concerns also remain over the fairness of mr al-maleh’s trial. my key message is that there are serious grounds to believe that mr al-maleh is a victim of repression by the authorities in response to his human rights work, which is extensive and impressive. he must be released immediately. i would like to point out that mr al-maleh is an excellent candidate for the sakharov prize. i will be taking action to see that he is one of the candidates.
mr president, the detention of haytham al-maleh is a clear illustration of the current human rights situation in syria. the extension of the jurisdiction of military courts to civilians is a highly questionable practice that can rarely, if ever, be justified. without in any way diminishing the unfair treatment of haytham al-malehi, i would like to stress that the real problems are deeply rooted in the structures of syrian society. a state of emergency freezing many constitutional rights has been in effect since it was declared in 1963. the original main reason for the prolongation of the state of emergency, the conflict between syria and israel, has long lost its credibility. no government can remain in power for decades and claim to operate according to democratic principles. i call on the european parliament to condemn in the strongest terms the continuation of the state of emergency and to support all measures that will enable genuine democracy to return to syria.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kazak. this is an excellent report and, unlike the previous speaker, mr kader arif, i do not think that we should be dealing with all the issues between heaven and earth here, because this is a report on trade and economic relations. one of the problems with the eu is that when it comes to drawing up a report, it lists all the possible things and says nothing about any of them. this clearly sets out the issues covered by this report and for that i thank kazakhstan. the customs union between the eu and turkey, concluded in 1996, has anchored turkey to the european market and is a strong trading partner with all european countries and the eu. however, it is regrettable that the customs union still seems to be suffering from a wide range of problems. the turkish authorities often require imported goods to be issued with customs union-related licences and permits. we know that the eu countries are also guilty of this. this calls for mutual action to clarify this matter. the rapporteur has brought these forgeries to the fore, and there is still a lot, a lot of work to be done. one of the big problems in turkey is, of course, the grey economy. it is worth up to 50-70% of the country's total economy and it certainly has an impact on trade and the economy and it requires work from turkey. in future, special attention must be paid to the trade and economic relations between turkey and the eu, and the customs union must be made more effective at all levels. turkey needs the eu, but so does the eu need turkey.
in writing. mr president, theft is always theft. stealing audio over the internet is the same as stealing the same content from a record store. yet, the attitude toward cyber piracy theft is still much more lax and mild than toward shoplifting. we have to take online piracy seriously. the creation of networks is a practical, efficient and natural way of distributing digital content, but this does not mean that the content of their creators must be freely available to everyone without any compensation. unfortunately, some of the opponents of this report seem to think so too. the future of the creative industries, like any industry, depends on whether or not you pay for the work. when the fees of musicians, actors or film directors fall into the pockets of pirates, the result is the impoverishment of culture, as professional artists cannot support themselves. is that what we want? the second option, as this report has rightly suggested, is to develop reasonable rules of the game for computer networks that protect copyright. those rules are based on an old morality, one that has been legislated for ages: do not steal.
mr president, i would like to thank mr vidal-quadras very warmly for his work. whether we like it or not, europe is increasingly dependent on gas, and that gas is supplied to us by russia. it is therefore not enough for the eu to have a good relationship with its gas suppliers. the eu's internal infrastructure and legislation also need to be adapted so that we are prepared for crises of our own making. member states shall define the roles and responsibilities of all market participants in ensuring security of supply. recent history shows that there is a need for this. europe's dependency is at a worrying level. more than 40% of european natural gas consumption is now imported, and forecasts suggest that this dependence may increase to 70% by 2020. it is a result of economic and political dependence, which is not healthy. in the future, the situation may be alleviated by liquefied natural gas, the price of which has fallen, and also by new shale gas, which has been found in various parts of the world, including poland. these will hopefully improve security of supply and diversify supply options, as will the development of efficient renewable energy. the recent disputes between russia and its neighbours showed how weak our internal security of supply was in the standings. this is why it is important to take concrete measures, such as ensuring that gas is also supplied in the opposite direction between member states or, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, ensuring that neighbours have enough of their own reserves in case of crisis. the same applies to the awareness and recognition of the different situations in the member states.
mr president, it has recently become clear that the european union is confused by the growing power of china. this is also reflected in our human rights dialogue. i would like to say that our human rights dialogue with china is in a kind of crisis, and we must find solutions to it. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the prime minister of this growing player in world politics has just recently stated that economic gains in china may be lost if political reforms are not carried out. he went so far as to say that citizens should have the right to information, they should have the right to participate in decision-making, they should have the right to be heard, and citizens should also have the ability to control government. i would like to see these issues seriously addressed at the eu-china summit. when we hear from chinese representatives that china is acting in accordance with the needs of the majority, we must be able to show that those brave individuals, many of whom are currently also imprisoned for their opinions, are actually defending the majority of the people when they point out abuses: the milk scandal, the poorly built schools or the hiv/aids scandal. in this way we might be able to establish a new human rights dialogue with china. we can also acknowledge that there have been positive reforms in the chinese judiciary, that torture is increasingly being condemned, and that this is the way we could tackle this serious problem. it should also be noted that china has recently reduced the number of criminal offences that carry the death penalty. all of this gives us even stronger reasons to continue a strong human rights dialogue with china.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr echeverria for his excellent report, for which i had the pleasure of voting. the european union has a major role to play in coordinating standards and practices. i would particularly like to highlight the points in the report which call for the provision of high-quality and comprehensive broadband connections throughout the union. this objective is critical for the operational conditions of e-commerce. broadband for all eu citizens by 2013 and high-speed broadband by 2020 are ambitious but necessary targets to improve the quality of life for citizens. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the attention he has paid to consumer protection and privacy in the world of electronic commerce. this is a subject which needs to be carefully considered in future, especially in services for children.
in writing. the world health organization has estimated that counterfeit medicines account for up to 10% of the world's pharmaceutical market. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers against counterfeiting. it is good that patients are now being made more aware of medicines and their side effects. in the future, better information will be available, inter alia, through new national and european pharmacovigilance websites. finally, i would like to support the rapporteur's proposal that the commission be asked to report on the environmental impact of medicines and to assess whether there is a need for further changes to eu legislation on medicines in the near future. thank you!
madam president, i would like to thank you. i'm actually going to start where my swedish colleague left off. i was going to start by saying that it is inconceivable that it is this way, and i was going to ask the same question, so i am also looking forward to the answer. as a new member of parliament, i too am surprised that it has gone this way. in this context, i would also like to emphasize that it is not only the review just mentioned by mr göran färm that is late, but also, by extension, the so-called interim reports, the preliminary evaluation reports for the research programme, and other reports, for example, are late. in the long run, this affects the whole of the work that we have started for 2014 and beyond, but it also affects how we can work on this now and how we can look at what will happen in the next few years, because it's quite far to 2014. in some of the previous speeches, the challenges we face in europe 2020 were very well spoken of, and indeed it requires an ambitious review of the current budgetary frameworks. there is a lot to be done here, and i understand that the commission is not in an easy position to deal with in this respect. but if we are to meet the challenges we have before us, it is wise to look at this in a much longer term perspective than has been done so far, and then a thorough review is now required, and i also look forward to wise initiatives from the commission.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, the compromise we have reached in this resolution is very good, so i thank all my colleagues who were present. the improvement of the situation in regions affected by the financial crisis must be one of our main priorities in regional policy too. these areas are indeed the northern, sparsely populated areas, the mountainous regions, the border regions and the islands. in this resolution, parliament makes a very strong appeal to the commission to pay particular attention to areas suffering from persistent natural disasters, also in the future financial frameworks and programming period. in this future cohesion policy, support for sparsely populated areas is important for the continuation of a very comprehensive cohesion policy. i would remind my colleagues who support the resolutions that this objective must also be pursued in practice. not only by voting in favour of this resolution, but also by ensuring that funding for these specific areas is indeed maintained in future financial frameworks. i am pleased that the exploitation of the potential of the regions is given a very strong prominence in this paper. it is important that we also see the very strong resources in these areas and not just their problems. only by exploiting the real potential of these regions can we take them forward in a concrete way. the traditional industries, energy and the europe 2020 priorities such as research and development are key to these specific areas. i look forward to the commission's fifth cohesion report. it is very interesting to see how the commission really takes the europe 2020 objectives into account and how the specific focuses of these specialised areas are exploited across europe.
mr president, finland is a vast country, roughly the size of the united kingdom, but there are only 5.3 million of us. i think this is a great fortune, no one makes land anymore. the world and europe are becoming more and more crowded, but clean water and nature are a necessity. taxes are collected from the top of the heap, and basic services are also for all people. scattered settlements are as important as cities because every person and every life is precious. in finland, my home country, lapland, eastern finland, the central parts of finland are sparsely populated, but they are part of finland's security of supply, part of the whole of finland, where it is possible to carry out commercially sustainable activities. we must also be able to see in the eu, which i am sceptical about, that action must be economically viable and that there must also be development in the regions. we must also ensure that we do not increase the number of people who are forced to flee their homes by union legislation. i am particularly critical of the forthcoming postal services directive. it would do these gentlemen good to go and look in those scattered settlements at the bottom of the hill, that's when that mail comes. these are the kinds of things i want to emphasize, and as we go forward, a little bit of criticism may even fade a little bit.
mr president, mr commissioner, the structural funds are a key eu financial instrument in pursuing the 2020 objectives. they are particularly important in the sparsely populated northern regions, and i would like to emphasize the following four aspects. firstly, these special areas are the first and most acute of many problems. with a working-age population that has often moved away in search of work, many sparsely populated areas will be the first to face the problem of an ageing population. i am of course the person who knows the finnish situation best and i can tell you that there will soon be areas in eastern and northern finland where more than half of the population are pensioners. the ratio of the elderly to the working-age population, the so-called dependency ratio, is the weakest in eastern finland, italy and eastern germany in 2020. the polarization between regions is increasing significantly and the number of regions with a supply ratio more than a quarter higher than the eu average will reach 40 by 2020. it is therefore important that demographic criteria linked to the ageing of the population are taken into account in regional and structural policies and that this gross national product criterion should not remain the only one. secondly, these regions must no longer lose their working age population, but must focus on their competitiveness in order to recover from the economic crisis and achieve the eu 2020 targets. innovation and the development of skills are needed, and competitiveness must be strengthened. less money means more to be done. the selection criteria for innovation funding should be real good results. the focus will be on those themes that best promote competitiveness and employment in each region, and new social and service innovations are also needed. thirdly, there is a need for regional programmes that integrate the actions of the different structural funds and whose results can be measured and evaluated. the administrative burden of the management and control systems in the member states shall be proportionate to the amount of funding. the financing must be conditional on results and linked to structural economic reforms and responsible economic policies. fourthly, mr president, we need cross-border cooperation between regions, particularly in economic and environmental projects. a good opportunity is offered, for example, in the framework of the baltic or danube macro-regions, which have already been mentioned in this debate. cooperation is needed between the eu's neighbours, but in the case of the baltic sea, for example, it is also necessary to involve russia in regional cooperation. the only indigenous people in europe (interrupted)
the author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aviation emissions have grown faster than any other major business sector. peter liese has already stated that they have doubled in 20 years. if societies as a whole reduce greenhouse gas emissions as they should, but aviation emissions continue to grow at the current rate, in 20 to 30 years aviation would use up all the emission allowances available to europe. there'd be nothing left for another life. at kyoto, icao was tasked with creating an international system to limit aviation emissions. it did not do so, but on the contrary, interpreted the right to freedom of movement as conferred on air transport. that is why the eu decided to set up its own aviation emissions trading scheme. the real objective is, of course, a global system, but the eu's aviation emissions trading alone also has a global impact. flights to and from europe account for a significant proportion of global aviation emissions. we must not yield to american pressure now. on the contrary, we must condemn this pressure in no uncertain terms. i'm sure most of us here have a great deal of sympathy for president obama. we can understand his difficulty in getting climate legislation through his own country's congress, but we cannot accept that the us administration is trying to block eu climate action. we cannot, after all, give the united states a veto over our own action to limit aviation emissions. the only mandate of the commission and the presidency is to stick to the directive we have agreed together. the same problem also concerns emissions from international shipping and i would remind the commission of the matters we have agreed on in our own climate legislation.
mr president, we need more european solutions, less protectionist clauses and national self-interest. it is therefore of particular importance that this work does not stop there. we need to get back to this. crossborder banking, which now accounts for over 70% of all activity, needs to be regulated. it needs a common european control system that serves our common interests. the three new supervisory authorities are the maximum we can achieve at the moment. it is not an ideal solution for the whole, it leaves too much fragmentation of national interests in crossborder banking.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, marielle gallo, for her report. it is very important that we now establish common rules for copyright, intellectual property rights, across europe, because it is absolutely true that when we look at europe in this situation, what we need is innovation, we need creativity. they add real value. in order to guarantee innovation, to guarantee that creativity goes forward and that creative solutions are created, they must be protected and developed. it is quite clear that we cannot accept infringements of intellectual property rights. this is a problem in industry, in many creative industries, and in sports. i therefore think it is very good that this gallon report is a first step in the right direction. we cannot, as legislators, in any way advocate that piracy or theft, whether it happens online or elsewhere, be justified. we must ensure that the creative industries have a rest. they can do and innovate, and that is how we will tackle and sanction the continuing infringement of intellectual property rights and thus achieve european added value through the creative industries.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the so-called gallo report on the control of intellectual property rights. the position adopted by the committee supports innovation, employment in the creative sector and consumer safety. on the other hand, it also identifies the threat posed by counterfeiting and piracy in various forms. i thought the gallo report as a whole was balanced and that is why i voted against the alternative motions for resolutions. i hope that the gallo report adopted today will help to create a stronger basis for the fair and balanced development of the value chains of the content supply of the information society.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr gallo for his thorough report. although the report was divided on its content between groups, the need to bring the significant employment and economic impact of the creative sectors and their dependence on adequate safeguards to the public's awareness was undeniable. that is why i voted in favour of the motion. contrary to the fears of privacy concerns, for example, the gallon report does not propose new legislation, let alone penalties, but seeks to highlight the importance of intellectual property to the european union's economy and calls on it - within the framework of existing legislation - to develop a fair and equitable system that safeguards the protection of property, freedom of expression and the fundamental rights of the individual.
mr president, the eu must hold itself responsible for standing by when defenceless women and children continue to suffer at the hands of gun-toting rebels and army men. it is time to move beyond rhetoric. we must take concrete measures to provide on-the-ground support to bolster the drc security forces in conjunction with other international missions. we must actively engage, and whenever necessary pressure the government to protect its own people. we must also speak with one strong and bold voice, saying to the government to stop human rights violations. the drc – the country – has huge resources. we want to hear good news from africa also.
mr president, mr commissioner, the crossborder cooperation programmes are and will remain very important for improving and deepening cooperation between the eu's border regions. however, the management of programmes under the external relations heading has proved problematic and does not always take into account the specificities of crossborder cooperation. it is also worth considering the possibility of transferring the management of the programmes to the commission's directorate-general for regional policy, for example, in future financial frameworks, applying the programming principles that are well established under regi. russia should be seen as an equal partner in these enpi programmes. russia is currently the only country, to my knowledge, not belonging to the dac whose programmes are still managed by dg europeaid. the question is whether there is enough experience of european regional cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as mentioned earlier in this discussion, russia has chosen not to participate in the european neighbourhood policy cooperation, probably because it does not feel it has been treated with sufficient dignity. instead, this strategic partnership has been developed, which unfortunately does not work quite as it should. commissioner füle mentioned earlier that he does not intend to cut back on the baltic sea programme, and i assume that this is a direct consequence of the failure to get projects off the ground with russia. this is incredibly troubling. cooperation with russia is not easy, i know that as a finn. but you can if you treat russia the right way, that is, with respect, and if you realize that they have a slightly different culture. i would venture to say that there is room for improvement in the commission's knowledge of and attitude towards russia. it is absolutely essential that we get cooperation with russia back on track. just look at the question of the baltic sea strategy, where russia's position in various ways is absolutely necessary. i look forward to good initiatives from the commission on this front.
in writing. the death penalty is an irreversible and inhumane punishment that violates human rights. it is a cruel and degrading punishment that can be inflicted on an innocent person. the death penalty has not been proven to prevent or significantly reduce crime. it is a great pity that it is still in use in 43 countries. mr president, i have to go. the abolition of the death penalty is one of the priorities of the european union's human rights policy. i am pleased that today, on the international day against the death penalty, the european parliament is taking a firm stand against the death penalty. we must ban executions everywhere in the world. they cannot be considered legal work under any circumstances. thank you!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is not just solidarity; it is an element with which we create great added value for the whole of europe. our region has a wealth of know-how and also a very strong potential based on, for example, natural resources. these objectives, which are also strongly linked to the europe 2020 strategy, can only be met by an effective pan-european cohesion policy with sufficient budgetary resources also for the period starting in 2014. it is important that we continue to work towards closing the gaps between countries in terms of gross domestic product in the coming financial period. it is also essential that the present objective 2 regions and their specific challenges are also taken into account. i would also like to ask you, commissioners, on behalf of article 174, to take account of the less-favoured regions, mountain and island regions in the future cohesion policy period, including in terms of financing, as has been done so far and with great success. finally, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to participate in this very important debate.
mr president, cohesion policy has been necessary and has been successful. i think we must now have the courage to look ahead and the courage to ask whether money is going to the right places today and whether it is having the effect it is intended to have. the money is being distributed here and there, it is no longer being distributed today to the poorest areas and to those who really need it. i think it is time to consider whether cohesion policy should be nationalised and whether it should be directed at the eu level to real needs only. secondly, i would like to stress that bureaucracy must be reduced - 30 to 40% of the money is now going to bureaucracy, and that is far too much.
mr president, the europe 2020 strategy was supposed to be a new beginning and a new opening after the deepest crisis in european economic history, but the debate since the europe 2020 strategy has been dominated by budgetary discipline alone. it seems that the one who gets the most applause is the one who says that you should cut more. the council is cutting, the member states are cutting, and now it seems that there is a mood here in parliament that the eu budget must also be cut. this is not how you build the future! the european union will soon have no cohesion policy, no regional policy, no employment policy, no economic policy, only fiscal policy. commissioners hahn and andor, are you concerned about this general climate of austerity? i think the debate we're having here is a little bit blind.
mr president, the report on the minimum wage reflects well the multifaceted debate we had in the committee on employment and social affairs on combating poverty and exclusion. despite the theme of the year for combating poverty, the economic crisis has led to a further increase in unemployment and social hardship in many member states. european poverty is particularly marked by child poverty, rising youth unemployment, the lower status of women in the labour market, the exclusion of migrants, the situation of ethnic minorities such as the roma, and the plight of the unemployed approaching retirement age. poverty reduction is one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which has been sought to be concretised by quantitative targets binding on member states. and it is rightly so, for the past decade has produced almost no results in reducing poverty. the majority of the committee decided in this report to propose that the minimum income for the member states be set at 60% of the median income of each country, and some members of the committee even called for a framework law on the minimum income. i am not in favour of legislation because the definition of the minimum income ignores the different structures of the social security systems in the member states. in some member states, various tiered performance-based social services and tax-funded universal services are also part of the social security system. the minimum income should therefore be pursued with respect for the subsidiarity principle in the member states and solutions should be sought through the exchange of best practices.
thank you to the rapporteur who has done an excellent job! i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets for his excellent management of the negotiations. these are tough economic times, as my colleagues have testified. i have been responsible for the so-called other parts of the budget on behalf of my group. in difficult economic times, it is easy to become a symbolic debate about parliament's own costs and cost increases. it is easy to interpret as populist, but as my british colleague pointed out, assistant costs and costs for the representation of the president are not particularly high in the big picture and the eu budget, but they have a symbolic meaning. i think we should look at our own costs and not add to them in times of economic stress. as regards the draft budget as a whole, i would like to criticise the council. i understand that the council wanted to make some cuts in this year's budget. it is quite logical that we may not want a 6% increase, but at the same time it is not very consistent to cut back on r & d and innovation when as recently as last spring we agreed on the europe 2020 strategy where these areas were central. the council's priorities for the 2011 budget therefore appear somewhat illogical. finally, as regards the discussion on own resources, many of us in the liberal group welcome it very warmly. it's needed. we are currently in a state of arms-shaking over the financing of the budget which is not particularly constructive. it is good that we can now discuss other models for safeguarding the future eu budget.
mr president, mr commissioner, during the preparation of this budget we have heard from many quarters that the european union must be tightened up under this economic pressure. but we cannot be satisfied with a budgetary recession which means that we have to cut back on our common and possibly international commitments. the council's cuts have been particularly worrying in that they have targeted, among other things, the research and development already mentioned. the desire of the member states to defend economic growth and a lower public debt does not justify us losing sight of our priorities. in a time of tragedy, we should be able to look even more strongly to the future. this formula has proved to be a good one in my own country, finland, among others. the lisbon objectives already set a target of 3% of gdp for research and development. the eu as a whole is currently at around 1.9%. the increase of one percentage point is estimated to create up to several million jobs. we therefore have every reason to pursue this very important and ambitious objective. the 2011 budget, which will be voted on tomorrow, shows, in my view, that the committee on budgets considers it important that we should also try to create growth through the regions in the future. the council's cuts in regional development are therefore totally unsustainable. i would hope that the council too would understand the importance of regional policy and its strong link with the europe 2020 strategy.
mr president, mr commissioner, small businesses often suffer from the financial difficulties caused by late payments and, in the current economic situation, late payments can mean the bankruptcy of even a small supplier of goods or services due to a liquidity crisis. the council has now reached agreement on an update of the late payments directive, which would set a general 30-day back-limit for payments between traders and public authorities. however, i think it is important to recognise the general freedom of contract in business-to-business transactions and i therefore welcome the possibility of extending the payment period to 60 days in business-to-business transactions if that is the view of both parties. for public authorities, these possibilities for payment extensions are more restrictive and, in particular, public administration arrears have become a major problem in some eu countries. for example, in greece the average payment period may have been as long as 165 days, but it is now improving, as the greek colleague here said, and in spain it is 138 and in italy 128 days. these delays in payment have benefited the financial companies, which have been forced to sell their own accounts receivable in order to speed up the turnover of their claims. these financial services are costly and it can be said that, in principle, companies have the right to obtain their own receivables from the debtor without any intermediaries and additional costs. the default interest rate, the reference rate + 8%, is acceptable, but the minimum recovery cost of eur 40 may be excessive for small, such as repeated deliveries. it should be recalled that the amount of the default charge must be reasonable, i.e. linked to the reasonable costs actually incurred by the creditor. despite these remarks, the benefit of the late payment directive is certainly greatest for small and medium-sized enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make two points. firstly, the commission should send a task force to hungary to analyse the situation. it is not at all satisfactory that we are only dependent on the information provided by the hungarian authorities as to, among other things, what this red sludge actually contains. we need information from independent investigators. the second point is that you, commissioner, said that red sludge does not meet the criteria for hazardous waste and that our legislation is in order. these two statements cannot both be true. criteria for hazardous waste must be specified in such a way that high alkalinity, high ph value is one of the criteria for hazardous waste.
mr president, it is only two years since the financial crisis broke out and only six months since the greek issue, and we are seeing all willingness fading away in our nation states. today we have a clear message from the european parliament in the berès report and the feio report. we need more current economic and financial policies. we need more europe, and a better stability and growth pact with its mechanisms strengthened. the most recent decision by the ecofin council is a slap in the face for european citizens. this is not adequate. we need to strengthen the strategy for growth, so that in this environment it is sustainable and socially responsible, and we need better governance mechanisms for eu 2020. we need more and better european economic governance for national actions to support this line, including the financial transaction tax that i urge the commission to look at very carefully, including in a european context. we need a better and stronger united europe speaking with one voice at global level. we need a better financial regulation and there is a long way still to go. to conclude, we need a commission initiative. we need the commission to act in the interests of european citizens, instead of a number of task forces.
mr president, commission president barroso said at the outset that the development of financial management has been so rapid that two years ago no one could have foreseen it. that is true, and that is why it is always good to see, when speed is not the end in itself, whether the train is on the right track. the berès report does this analytical work and it is very good. now that the berès committee is continuing its work, it is also worth listening to dissidents on economic policy, such as nobel prize winner krugman. he claims that the finance ministers are poppers who sacrifice jobs to the altar. we should listen to them if we want to move from a fictional economy to a real economy, and that means we need real economic indicators, employment and poverty. i was disappointed by olle schmid's proposal that a transfer tax could not be tried and implemented on a european scale. it is a great disappointment, especially since his conclusion was 'more europe'.
mr president, i propose that in future we have one representative for economic issues. we should have a high representative for economic affairs in the same way as we have a high representative for foreign affairs. in future we could merge mr rehn’s and mr barnier’s posts. on another issue, it is a shame that we cannot speak with one voice at the g20 meetings. the european union is helping france, sarkozy and the chair of the g20. in future, the european union should have one post, one person at this meeting, and we should speak with one voice.
in writing. i voted for 20 weeks of maternity leave. longer maternity leave is important for the development and well-being of children. they're the best capital in society. finland has a system of maternity and parental leave. however, not everyone has access to such a system throughout europe. it is therefore important to advocate that women do not suffer financially from the decision to have children. the financial burden of maternity leave should not be placed solely on companies, but the public sector must be fully involved in the costs. small and mediumsized enterprises in particular are at risk of being put in a difficult position. nor should the female-dominated sectors be subjected to excessive financial pressure. the position of women in the pay situation must be taken care of. their position in the pay situation must not be weakened. it is of the utmost importance that we do not allow this to happen.
mr president, thank you for giving me the floor. my question to mrs gomes on her excellent proposal is to ask her what she thinks we could actually learn from the us models for this kind of more flexible and, let us say, less bureaucratic, financing of democratisation and human rights.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the excellent work he has done, and in particular for the correct approach he has taken to the imo decision on sulphur emissions. i hope that the commission will take this decision seriously, which will certainly be adopted unanimously by parliament today. the imo decision was taken in haste, without environmental assessments and without cost assessments. the eu must not repeat the mistake made by the imo. if the north is set different emission limits than the south, competition is distorted and the rules are distorted within the eu. the emission limits shall be the same. i am quite sure that it would be against the competition laws of the european union if this were to happen. what does this mean for my own country, for example? this results in an additional cost to the industry of about one billion a year. finnish jobs are at risk, even though we are trying here by all means to increase the number of jobs in the eu. we talk about the europe 2020 strategy, but we make different decisions that take away these jobs. the transport will also be transferred to russian vessels, which will then transport the goods to finland by rail, since russia will not ratify this imo decision. this is hardly the eu's wish. the swedes have said that they will transfer this transport, which now takes place by ship, to the rubber wheel. it would be a bad decision for the environment and a bad decision for future european jobs. i hope that the commission will really understand this decision which is being unanimously adopted today in parliament.
mr president, yesterday we did indeed vote on the important report by mrs estrella on maternity leave, its duration and the benefits to be paid during it. after this vote, the media called and asked me several times if i voted for or against. i said i voted for women. i voted for 18 weeks of maternity leave and 75% of the benefits. i see that in my own country, finland, the system is good. if the system adopted yesterday is applied, the position of women on the labour market will be substantially weakened, because employers will continue to wonder whether they can take young women on, because the cost of maternity leave will increase significantly. the opportunities for women to participate in the labour market are thus diminished. that's why i wanted to give you this statement.
mr president, i too am from finland and i know that we have a very good maternity leave system. but i voted for 20 weeks of maternity leave. i thought about it in terms of the other member states of the european union. i think extended maternity leave is important for the development of children. children, the children who are born, are the real capital of europe. mothers, children and families are the trio on which the future is built. of course, mothers should not suffer financially from wanting to have children, nor should women-dominated industries suffer. women must also have rights in the wage situation. but we must have idealism, we must have faith! this was a moral decision for mothers, for a new life and for a new europe.
author. − mr president, we are once again discussing the difficult situation in zimbabwe. today, there is high inflation reaching hundreds of million per cent and an unemployment rate that has denied over 90 million people in the country a livelihood. there are also very many human rights violations. parliament asks what should be done. we have said many times that we do not accept human rights violations. we have been dictating to african countries, but nothing has happened. i think that when we give humanitarian aid to african countries in the future we must make it conditional on the observance of human rights. we have not been tough enough in some cases and in other cases we have only dictated what to do. maybe we should have closer cooperation with all african countries and with the african union and try and get them to understand the situation so that the european union does not continue to give money if human rights violations continue.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the sad situation in zimbabwe, the dictatorship that has been in power there for over 30 years, is a disgrace both to the international community and to zimbabwe itself. this kind of dictatorship, oppressing its own people, is completely intolerable. there the mugen crowd feast on heart, live in luxury and revel in riches, while others live in the streets and the shacks from which they are still being driven. i must say that there is a limit to what the international community and the european union can tolerate. this is a completely shameful situation and the international community should put the country under a full boycott. no latin. for once, a dictator like this, who oppresses his own people, is forcing them out. for every day that this mob is in power, it shows our impotence, it shows that the international community has no muscle to discipline such an oppressor. he is also systematically persecuting various minorities. racial minorities, sexual minorities, and everyone else in their own country. this is simply intolerable and i fully support the removal of this dictator. that is why we must have a very strong eu position, which is rightly the case now.
mr. speaker, it's no wonder the colleagues are on fire over mugabe. he has made his country, africa's fertile wheat field, a slide-belt of bad news. the government's replacement accommodations have proved to be totally inadequate, which has led to a further deterioration of already poor living conditions. while the fight against communicable diseases is one of the official reasons for the entire operation, the lack of follow-up to the evictions gives rise to questions about the government's motives. the situation in zimbabwe is well known. government corruption and general confusion in the economy and society in general lead to a lack of starting points. the zimbabwean government has not yet taken any action to address the problem of the illegal trade in human beings. while there are legitimate situations where large numbers of people have to be relocated in the face of major projects, the welfare of the relocated population must always be a key consideration. this is clearly a failure on the part of zimbabwe, whether its arguments are acceptable or not.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the treatment of sam rainsy is the tip of the iceberg of authoritarian rule, whereby the ruling party in cambodia uses a politically subjugated court to silence all criticism of the government. the aim of this government is, of course, to suppress civil society and to drive it into a one-party system. this is also reflected in the conviction rainsy received, which is intended to prevent him from participating in the 2013 elections. as has already been stated here, the eu is cambodia's largest single donor and it is therefore significant that in this resolution we do not simply condemn the numerous human rights violations in the country, the lack of a properly functioning judiciary and the politicisation of the armed forces, but we clearly recall the eu-cambodia cooperation agreement and its first article which requires respect for human rights. the continuing violation of civil liberties must have consequences and the eu must make a clear improvement in the human rights situation a condition for continued financial support.
mr president, the decision of a cambodian court to sentence opposition politician sam rainsy to 10 years in prison on charges of disseminating disinformation and falsifying official documents, as well as other similar cases, have raised legitimate concerns in the west about the impartiality and independence of the country's judicial system. the over-interpretation of the provisions of the law on dissemination of false information and defamation in such a way as to be liable to prejudice the activities of the opposition and of ngos has been systematic and these provisions have in fact been used to restrict freedom of opinion and expression. while i acknowledge the significant progress made in cambodia since the reign of pol pot, i find it regrettable that the cambodian government should decide to leave the building of a democratic system halfway, as has unfortunately happened in a large number of countries. cambodia has committed itself in a number of international agreements, including its cooperation agreement with the european community, to safeguarding the fundamental rights of its people and the implementation of democratic principles in its territory. the european union must press the cambodian government to honour its commitments.
author. − mr president, i would like to say that this resolution on the situation in the north caucasus, and in particular on the case of oleg orlov, is one of the most deserving resolutions this house has adopted for a long time. the tragedy reigning in the north caucasus has only deepened in recent years with pervasive human rights violations still affecting the daily lives of the communities in chechnya, in ossetia, dagestan, north ossetia and kabardino-balkaria. the violence is far from over. only last tuesday, at least six people were killed in an attack on chechnya’s parliament building in grozny. at least 17 people were injured, most of them civilians. on 9 september, 17 people were killed and many others wounded in a bombing in vladikavkaz, the capital of north ossetia. the tragedies of the past are not accounted for either. the families of victims in beslan still do not know what exactly happened to their children and loved ones, how they died or where their bodies are. not only has the vicious circle of violence and impunity left these communities distraught and paralysed, the failure to tackle the situation has led the violence to spread beyond the borders of the north caucasian republics. while muscovites have felt the trauma of terrorism, chechen refugees in europe fear persecution, even murder. people disappear even in the capital city, moscow, or in st petersburg, as has happened during the past year. so there comes a point when this must stop. the winner of the 2009 sakharov prize, mr orlov, being placed under criminal charges could be the point at which europe finally says enough is enough. the eu should seek now to cooperate with the council of europe on the excellent report produced by dick marty on legal remedies for human rights violations in the north caucasus.
the author. - mr president, i am very concerned about the growing climate of fear which is being directed at human rights defenders in russia. we owe our support to oleg orlov, who was awarded the sakharov prize last year. his only crime is that he's been talking about human rights in russia. the eu is also violating fundamental rights, but the violations in russia are of a different order. we must fight all forms of terrorism and radical extremism by all legal means, but also by the means provided by civil society. the north caucasus no longer needs repression but rather dialogue. no more crime, more respect for the law and human rights. justice is always done objectively and subjectively. in the north caucasus, this means that criminals are prosecuted and the needs of victims of crime are taken into account. the adoption of this statement is a clear and consistent support for mr orlov, as well as for all other human rights defenders. we must bear this in mind when negotiating the new eu-russia relationship. russia must respect human rights in order to be a genuine part of europe and to accept the european ethos: europe is for the people, not against the people.
mr president, the most notorious and violent conflict in the north caucasus is the conflict that has been raging since the first chechen war. it still continues, although it has expanded, especially to dagestan and ingushetia. without taking a position on whether it is a war of liberation, a war against terrorism or something else, we cannot deny the truth about the almost 100 000 internal refugees and the very poor human rights situation. the human rights activists we awarded the sakharov prize last year are a driving force in memorial, which plays a major role in the north caucasus. in december, when receiving the award, oleg orlov, when asked about the dangers of his work, said that the biggest problem is that the threat comes from state representatives. few doubt these words of his. anna politkovskaya was particularly known as a champion of chechen human rights, the russian agent litvinenko who was poisoned in london had criticised russian actions in chechnya and last year the murdered natalia estemirova revealed the involvement of the security services in the violence and executions in chechnya as well. the list of similar unsolved murders could go on and on. it is therefore essential that the european union continue to raise these issues.
in writing. mr president, climate policy has been a key element in eu-us relations for many years. it has reinforced the image of the united states as a unilateral, soloist. i think it's time we looked at this image. it is true that the united states took the world's leading position on climate policy by refusing to ratify the kyoto protocol. but time has shown that the whole agreement is ineffective and a wrong way to solve the complex problem of climate change. the path to much more promise and visions has been taken by the big emitters, who are committed to strong technological cooperation and the development of clean energy. it is time for the eu to take note of what is happening. the u.s. is not going to the carbon market. obama said recently that the most important thing is to do the right things that are useful, no matter what we think about climate change. these beneficial actions include investing in clean energy and improving energy self-sufficiency. on the issue of emissions trading, mr obama said: 'it's just a means to an end, not an end, and there are other ways to 'lick the cat'. is europe now the climate policy freak who doesn't see the situation and doesn't learn from its mistakes? we're cutting jobs and raising energy prices, doing everything the hard way instead of doing the sensible things. the prevention of pollution is a good thing, as is the investment in clean energy, energy self-sufficiency, forestry. the ets, on the other hand, is not in favour of this. it was marketed to us as a preparation for international emissions trading, which never came. why do we still torture our citizens with it, depriving them of their jobs and livelihoods?
in writing. mr president, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate mr jean-paul gauzes on his excellent work as rapporteur of this complex, technical and controversial report. the commission's proposal on alternative investment fund managers has been met with passion, criticism and praise from many quarters. the commission proposal was criticised for being poorly prepared and secret. i myself considered that the main weakness of the proposal was that it confused two different types of product, capital and risk funds, which are two different activities and therefore different risks under the same directive. one of these focuses on the quick return, the other matures the investment over a longer period. the risks are specifically related to the former. the debate in parliament and the council on the directive was a compromise, not perfect but acceptable. the aifm directive is an important part of the new financial regulation and supervision. however, it should be borne in mind that the development of financial supervision must continue after the adoption of this directive.
mr president, innovation has become the fashion word of the day, the magic wand of the year. but it must be remembered that it will bring no momentary relief to the situation at hand. the average time to market for new inventions is 10 years, and the cost of inventing and finalising new products has increased considerably. this means that europe must really invest in joint research and the internal market and not expect too easy results. innovation comes with time. if research is given its own peace and adequate funding, it will produce results, but it is not a magic wand.
for the alde group mr president, the etuc has been historically significant and today it is a necessary and recognised cooperation organisation. the sit is often the organisation that is allowed to enter crisis areas today, even though others are denied access. so the search is absolutely important, it is important for example in central asia, whether it is to support police work, the fight against drugs or the development of border security. the ethiopian humanitarian corps in particular is unique in that it has developed models for human rights work, for action against human trafficking and for capacity building in fragile states. the eu, for its part, has increasingly focused on police operations, including the use of paramilitary carabinieri. of course, the eu has a very strong development aid policy. the company has also been able to establish a link between the environment and security, which is recognised in development policy. the eu should learn from these issues, but above all the eu's own operations could learn from osce operations. the edps is usually much earlier, with more experience and routine and with very experienced experts. the eec is just as strong as the member states want it to be. the cooperation between the osce and the eu and the mutual respect and recognition of each other are of paramount importance.
mr president, i very much support what mr bütikofer said about the need to ensure balance between the three dimensions, or baskets, of the osce. i would like especially to mention that we have to defend the human dimension. i am very happy that the report takes into account the fact that the presidency-in-office, kazakhstan, must be asked to respect the fundamental values and human rights of the osce in advance of the astana summit. we know that the situation there is far from satisfactory. there are many serious human rights violations, terrible prison conditions, etc. i am also very pleased to see that the report includes the notion that the european parliament must become more active in the human dimension. it is indeed a remarkable achievement that civil society can fully participate, and we must support the parallel event that civil society will organise prior to the astana summit. that summit should not become a mere pr exercise for kazakhstan.
mr president, robert schuman, the founder of the european union, said that the european union develops through crises, and now the development is possibly rapid because there are quite a lot of crises. this poses a very serious challenge to the political system in the european union and the member states. i have to say that the problems in ireland are partly due to the fact that ireland has a weak government. the political system must now be careful that drugs do not become bigger problems than the disease itself. for example, when the green representative here suggested that the corporate tax rate in ireland should be raised quickly to european levels, that could be very deadly for ireland, for growth and for employment. our idea is to get the money back - that is, growth and jobs for ireland - not to punish ireland; we must help, not punish.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular david casa, for his constructive and quick report on the commission’s proposal to extend by five years the existing rules on the minimum standard vat rate. this proposal is simple and is not controversial. a quick opinion of the european parliament on the commission’s proposal will allow the council to adopt the proposal before the end of the year – just in time, before the current rule expires. the proposal has indeed already been discussed in the council working party. no obstacle appeared to a speedy approval. as stated by david casa, the commission’s proposal will give businesses the necessary legal certainty and allow further evaluation of the appropriate level of the standard vat rate at eu level. the commission will indeed launch very soon a broad debate on the future of vat in order to evaluate and address the numerous shortcomings in the eu vat system such as its complexity, the high level of administrative burdens for businesses and fraud. before the end of the year, i will propose to my fellow commissioners the publication of a green paper on the evaluation of the current system and preferable ways forward for the future. i am looking forward to reactions as regards such issues as how to achieve a simpler, more robust and modern vat system and how to reduce collection and compliance costs for businesses, in particular smes, whilst limiting fraud and providing flexibility for member states. on the basis of the results obtained, the commission will define its future policy in the vat area in a communication on the way forward at the end of 2011. the amendments tabled clearly demonstrate the parliament’s interest in participating in this discussion on the future vat strategy. i welcome this sign of interest and hope to have a fruitful debate with you on this important issue at a later stage. however, i consider that these amendments are outside the scope of the proposal discussed today, which is limited to extending the period during which the minimum standard rate applies. moreover, some of the amendments pre-empt a debate we should have on the basis of the green paper. this applies in particular to the amendment which requests the commission to come up with a proposal on definitive rules on vat rates by 2013. at this stage, the commission cannot commit on a date to table a proposal on vat rates. it cannot predict the outcome of the consultation, whose scope will be broader than the vat rates. i hope that this consultation will give a clear idea of the priorities for the future of vat. the commission’s planning for future legislative proposals will therefore depend to a great extent on the outcome of this consultation.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the commission proposal focuses on extending the current system until the end of 2015 and on limiting the range of tax rates to 10 percentage points. this is very important, otherwise competition between member states in certain sectors could be distorted. the commission's proposal is to set up a consultation procedure to establish a new vat system. i think that the amendments tabled by the members of this house - contrary to the commissioner's view - are extremely important, because they are intended to indicate at this stage the direction that this new vat system is expected to take. in future we must be able to reduce the administrative burden of vat and make reporting as easy as possible, especially for smes, while at the same time effectively combating vat fraud. the public finances are currently in a slump in many european countries, and one solution has been seen as raising vat rates. but it does not help in countries where the general policy is to avoid vat. i would like to refer to the report by mr david casanova, which was adopted earlier, and which focused in particular on the means of combating vat fraud in the case of goods and services which are vulnerable to fraud. i hope that the commission will indeed make new openings in this area in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner georgieva for the work that the commission has done. it is very important that the european union is very strongly and visibly involved in haiti. but it is about our fellow humans, our neighbors. we also have a responsibility to them when they are faced with such an unprecedented disaster, first an earthquake and now a cholera epidemic. it is important that when money and aid are directed there, they arrive quickly. many christian relief agencies have done good work there, and it seems that they have fast channels to get help quickly to those in need. in this connection, i hope that the commission can also use these recognised humanitarian and christian organisations which are doing a good job there. this will help to get help there quickly and to achieve the best possible result.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? you guys! i shall concentrate on the report on anchovy fishing in the bay of biscay and the views of our group on this matter. this is a very important issue and an example of how we should approach sensitive fisheries issues. it is important to remember that the fisheries in question collapsed in 2005 as a result of overfishing. now that fishing is allowed again, it is done on the basis of a precautionary principle, and that is the way to do it. it is the only long-term and sustainable way of doing so, which was also the view of our group on the matter. in fact, from the fisheries sector, we may hope for more fish now at first, but in the long run it is better to do what we are probably going to do now. this is also how our group believes we should deal with these kinds of questions, both today and in the future.
in writing. the european union's efforts to reduce its use of coal are justified and in the right direction. the long-term objective of european and human decarbonisation is to recognise that european coal mines will have to adapt to the changed situation sooner or later. globalisation is putting a significant price pressure on coal. as a result, production is shifted to countries with lower labour costs, and eu coal-producing regions suffer a corresponding loss of jobs and income as mines are unable to compete. although the trend is not desirable, the actions of the public authorities must not be contrary to the basic principles of a market economy. there is no point in endlessly encouraging unprofitable production. it must be remembered that a structural change of this scale will inevitably have far-reaching and powerful social consequences. the closure of a mine often means the loss of a major local business. this is reflected in the ability of cities to provide services to their inhabitants and in the decline of entire communities. it is in everyone's interest that major social changes such as the undermining of mines take place in a controlled manner and with sufficient transition time. but coal will be a central part of our lives for the foreseeable future. it is still needed in the steel industry, among other industries, and research into its use as a raw material for polymers has been encouraging. in addition, coal-fired combined heat and power has achieved a very good efficiency ratio. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the coal industry, and that the council should be consulted on the future of the coal industry.
in writing. despite the beautiful climate speeches, europe is still clinging to its carbon-heavy past when it adopts this report. on the basis of the eu 2020 strategy, the union would like to move rapidly towards a low-emission future based on renewable energy sources. but if parliament continues to allow member states to blame billions on their coal mines, the practice will be different from the words. the current aid rules would have expired in december, but the commission proposal would extend them until 2014. the commission is also proposing to extend the deadline for the adoption of the new rules to 31 december 2018. two years ago, eu member states were providing as much as eur 2.9 billion in aid to the industry producing and using hard coal, or anthracite. it is a sign that fossil fuels are increasingly supported in many ways over renewable energy sources. this is despite the fact that our climate goals would require a policy that is the exact opposite.
mr president, i would like to stress the importance of education. otherwise this motion for a resolution is good, but i would like to say that on the gender front the eu and other countries participating in these civilian crisis management operations should turn their sights a little north and learn from sweden and also finland on education. i would also like to stress the importance of effective cooperation and of studies and studies on the success of these operations. it's still a little bit flawed at the moment.
i voted in favour of this report. i too am concerned that we must ensure that stocks are sustainable and that fishing is indeed sustainable in the baltic sea region. the decline of fish stocks is a major concern at the moment. this was, of course, mainly focused on the peg and the barbell, and it is clear that this was largely a technical reform which was needed after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, i.e. the old existing system was strengthened. this conversation should now be expanded. in the baltic sea in particular, i am concerned about the natural disasters and that these natural disasters could also be reinforced there and that more attention would indeed be paid to the sustainable fishing in the baltic sea.
mr president, when we talk about public aid, we must also bear in mind that in some cases public aid can distort competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. coal is currently one of the worst fossil fuels, indeed, killing hundreds of thousands of lives a year through various emissions. i therefore hope that we in europe will be able to gradually phase out coal as a source of energy and switch to renewable sources. i understand that it requires a certain transition period in those areas where coal production is a major employment issue, but the direction should be towards renewable technology and renewable energy in principle.
i believe, mr president, that the eu should not support polluting coal mines. we must support the procurement and production of renewable energy, we cannot press the gas and brake at the same time. i am on the same side as alde, but i voted wrongly in the final vote. i made a correction notice, but i wanted to say it here.
mr president, we have a good situation now. the european union is in crisis, all its institutions are in crisis. that is the situation that has been sought, and that is the truth. now is the time to grow. centralized state power and monetary policy did not succeed in the soviet union and will not succeed in the west. there is no common money, just taxpayers' money from all over europe. at the same time as national budgets are being cut finland did not find one million for rheumatoid arthritis hospitals at least my voters, who were 130,000, do not want me to be the eu representative in finland, but the representative of the finnish taxpayer in the eu, and that is what i intend to be. this policy of concentration will not work. first greece fell, now ireland falls, and then portugal and spain. this exercise is almost over.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is easy to agree with much of what my colleagues have said. for me and for many others, this has really been a genuine concern for the future, a concern for how we will get through the next few years, the next decade. it is important to remember that we have collectively managed to agree on a rather, or rather a very, ambitious 2020 strategy for europe, a strategy to take europe forward. however, it is naive to think that such a strategy will finance itself or implement itself. it is also true that this strategy and its successes are not only about money, but unfortunately they are partly about that too. the council, but also the commission, have not yet been able to present plans for the coming years that impress us enough, which is one of the reasons why we have ended up in the conflict we have had recently. let me tell the council that you are very happy to be standing in the family portrait after you have approved the lisbon treaty and after you have succeeded in agreeing on the 2020 strategy. all the great men and women are happy to stand up and tell us how much they love europe, but when it comes to doing something and actually implementing these things, the council suddenly has problems. these are problems which are now manifesting themselves in the fact that we are suddenly facing a budgetary crisis. these are the problems which the council, as has been pointed out here, should address and solve. the fact is that this is about the future and not just next year's budget. that is the political message we have for the council today.
madam president, awarding the 2010 nobel peace prize to liu xiaobo is testimony to the personal cost of human rights advocacy in china today. it is imperative that he and all other human rights defenders in china be released immediately. there are other cases pending. i remain painfully aware of the situation of dhondup wangchen, the tibetan film maker, who suffers from hepatitis b and is in need of urgent medical attention in prison. the decision to award the nobel peace prize to liu xiaobo must be considered as strong support for the struggle for the freedom of expression in china. it also serves, however, as a reminder to the international community of the need for reform in china. even chinese premier wen jiabao has warned that china may lose what it has already achieved through economic restructuring if there is no consequent political restructuring – and, colleagues, he was censured by the chinese media. delaying such reform has a terrible human cost. in addition, pressuring countries to stay away from the peace prize ceremony shows that china has not yet matured into an international actor. china is a superpower and it should start acting like one responsibly. i am very humbled to say that i have been invited to the ceremony as one of the 50 persons who are going to represent liu xiaobo at that ceremony.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr fjellner for his excellent report. it is very important to complete and update existing legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of medicinal products is not compromised. now that advertising has become more and more important, it is essential and important that criteria be defined so that consumers and patients can be fully aware and confident about the effects of these medicines. this information must be based on the information examined and not on various illusions or advertising techniques. such legislation, which is up-to-date and good for patient safety, is needed in the wider european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with all those who have supported the eu's reduction of emissions to 30%. it is not only about the future of mankind, but also about our own interests, that is, how to remain competitive in the energy revolution that is under way. to be a credible climate leader, the eu should be driving real climate protection at cancún, not creating loopholes. unfortunately, the eu seems to be acting differently on the rules for calculating co2 emissions from forests. it seems that the eu is adopting as a benchmark for forestry life forecasts which are inevitably arbitrary. this would create a new kind of "hot air" for the industrialized nations, and not just a little. this new 'hot air' could represent between three and five per cent of all industrial countries' emissions, the same size category as the combined emissions reduction commitment of all industrial countries under the kyoto protocol by 2012. another weak point in the eu's approach is the outsourcing of emission reductions to developing countries through the cdm mechanism. it is shortsighted, but also unwise from the point of view of fair competition, if we use the cdm to support industries in china, for example, which complain here about the risk of carbon leakage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the emission reductions are not exceeded.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner hedegaard for her very good and committed work on these climate matters within the eu and at global level. knowing that negotiations in the un framework on all international issues are very difficult at the moment, i think we have to exploit action-based orientation to the full. we know that the challenge is going to be ahead of us globally in all countries, so action to prevent climate change is always profitable, from the environmental and also the business standpoint. we have quite a range of studies showing that the eu could cut its co2 emissions by 30% or even 40% by 2020 in a way that would be economically viable and economically profitable. this would require, first of all, stopping harmful subsidies like the eur 6 billion yearly in europe for fossil fuels and more stringent, ets legislative support, resource efficiency and energy efficiency and tools such as a more stringent eco-design directive. i think that just by showing the way ourselves, we can convince the others that (a) we are serious, (b) this is profitable and (c) we are doing it for the environment and for the success of the european economy.
mr president, i would like to thank the ombudsman and his entire office for their valuable work in difficult circumstances. transparency, the right to information and the right to good administration are key conditions for citizens' confidence in the ability of the eu institutions to enforce their rights. it is worrying that year after year the greatest administrative error is the lack of transparency, even the refusal to provide information and documents. the porsche case is very serious in this respect. by delaying the submission of the requested documents for 15 months, the commission seriously failed in its duty to cooperate in good faith with the ombudsman. this attitude of the commission undermined public confidence in both the commission and the eu's public image. now that the commission representative and the ombudsman are sitting side by side in that assembly, i think it would be good to have a confidential and thorough discussion about whether the work of the other is respected, whether we are prepared to cooperate and to act in accordance with the eu's own fundamental principles. i do not want to blame any individual commissioner here, but it is worth starting a real debate in the commission on this, because the public image of the eu is not so good that such porsche cases can be allowed in the future. the rights of citizens must be respected in the commission, in the council and, of course, in parliament, in all the eu institutions.
mr president, i voted in favour of this budget and it is obvious that when we have a budgetary authority in parliament we must use it. but now we must consider how we will act responsibly. i can say that in many respects the content of this budget does not correspond to the ideals we have in the european union. i would hope that we could go through many things in detail, in such a way as to look at some old residues which are no longer relevant and then dare to reform the budget. it is also important, of course, to ensure that the european union has its own resources and can thus also better fulfil the tasks we have agreed on together and which came to us with the lisbon reform agreement. when i say that there are some matters where a new approach should be taken, we have old residues, such as support for tobacco farming, etc., which in my view no longer belong to the tasks of the european union today. we must be in this moment and in this time and be building a budget that is lifting the european economy in the right way.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report by mr beleti, contrary to the recommendation of our group, because i personally consider it very important that the protection of the public service be taken into account also through the national broadcasting companies. it is a very important issue and it can be said that there are only good experiences in democracies. it is quite true that commercial channels are also needed. these two different service providers, commercial and public service channels, can complement each other. i think it is important, as a fundamental right and as a right to freedom of expression, that there is a public channel, that it is publicly maintained and that it is focused on providing timely and up-to-date information to citizens in national states and across europe. i think this report is very good and very welcome, and i hope that the protection of public services will also be the trend in the future in all the member states of the european union.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. the european parliament should celebrate the un security council resolution on women, peace and security. ninety percent of the victims of war are civilians, most of them women and children. rape and sexual slavery are the raw, arch-reality of war. the geneva convention lists rape and sexual slavery as war crimes and crimes against humanity. it should also be noted that rape is a form of mass murder and is recognised as such by the international community. it is of the utmost importance that those who have committed these crimes are held accountable for their actions. women must be involved in actions aimed at preventing conflicts and promoting crisis management and peace negotiations. it is also important that women are given the opportunity to participate in the post-war reconstruction of their own country.
i also think, mr president, that this report by mrs kolarska-bobińska is very good. it is important that the european energy strategy for the next ten years be taken into account. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they're important things. it is also very important that we invest in research and in the new uses of various environmental technologies. innovation in this area is indeed needed if we are to build a europe that is ever cleaner and more self-sufficient in energy. in this case, we must turn our attention in particular to alternative energies. it is true that nuclear power is needed as a basic source of power, but alternative energies need new leaps. i wish we could get rid of coal one by one. i do not want to see the future of european energy as carbon black.
mr president, it is regrettable that the foreign policy of many eu countries still has a strong colonial character. it has been very clear in the case of western sahara. spain and france, which support morocco, bear a special responsibility for the prolongation of the conflict. western sahara is the last colony in africa and it was in a un resolution of 1966 that the first proposal was made to free western sahara from colonization. the situation in western sahara has worsened recently. the moroccan authorities have used excessive force. there have been numerous reports of deaths, injuries and missing persons. the crisis area is also under siege, preventing international aid from reaching it. the current crisis in western sahara and the whole conflict should be resolved as soon as possible. this is a task for the eu foreign minister, lady ashton, and also for all the eu member states.
author. − madam president, the death penalty violates the right to life as proclaimed in the universal declaration of human rights. it is the ultimate denial of human rights. nonetheless, in 2009, 18 countries carried out death sentences. iraq executed more than 120 people and iran carried out as many as 388 executions. the countries which use the death penalty – including the united states and china, and we can continue the list – say that people are executed in the name of justice. the death penalty has nothing to do with justice. the european union is strongly committed to working towards the abolition of the death penalty everywhere and is striving to achieve universal acceptance of this principle. this resolution is an important reminder of the fact that we need to continue the fight against the death penalty. we appeal to the government of iraq to abolish the use of the death penalty.
mr president, it is shocking and intolerable that so many innocent people have suffered in iraq for their faith. attacks on religious communities are condemnable at all times and in all places. the right of all religious groups to assemble and to practice their religion must be absolute. the european union is not only concerned about christians. freedom of religion and conscience must be enjoyed by all equally. the protection of this universal human right is also the best guarantee for preventing and resolving conflicts in advance. i believe that this resolution is a strong support from the european parliament for the iraqi people, a call to action against violence and terrorism and a resolute fight for democracy and human dignity in general.
the author. - mr president, article 4 of the constitution of the people's republic of china guarantees all citizens and nationalities the right to use and develop their own spoken and written language. in this respect, we are rightly concerned about the recent reports that the status of tibetan as a language of instruction is being undermined. i know that in this great country there are also protests against the fact that the forms of chinese spoken in shanghai and canton are similarly disappearing, and these are equally great concerns. it would be important for the people's republic of china to recognise that the preservation of tibetan culture is crucially dependent on language, in which case tibetan should be retained as the first language of instruction and should also be allowed to be taught in universities. of course, genuine bilingualism is an important goal. it must be admitted that it makes sense for tibetans to learn chinese as well, but making it the first language of instruction is certainly not without problems, as it means suffering the culture of tibet. it would also be important for china to finally ratify the international treaty on the political and civil rights of its citizens, which it signed years ago, because it would guarantee the better preservation of ethnic and religious minorities and their languages and cultures.
mr president, for centuries people have left europe to work outside europe, to escape war, political and religious persecution, and now europe is attracting people from outside europe with its stability, and that is a good thing. it is very good that the rules on legal immigration are being harmonised across the eu, with the residence and work permits being combined into one. this is a good thing. however, i think the commission's approach is less wise when a sectoral approach is chosen. this approach guarantees different rights for different groups. this has become such a jungle that even experts find it difficult to understand what european immigration policy is. we have posted workers, we have blue-card workers, we have researchers, we have seasonal workers and we have intra-company transfers and so on. why can't the commission apply the same rules to all employees? it has been shown many times that many groups of immigrants are excluded from equal treatment, and this is very difficult to accept. i think the guiding principle should be equal treatment. it is not justified that equal treatment should be reserved for certain persons and excluded for others. the s&d group has tabled amendments in this spirit, which i hope will be adopted by parliament in the vote tomorrow. this is very important, and while welcoming immigrants, we want to make these rules more equal and more consistent.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent reports. these two reports are indeed a fundamental basis for the future of cohesion policy. a functioning and pan-european cohesion policy is certainly a prerequisite for our global competitiveness. as the commissioner has said, regional policy is precisely an investment policy. this is what we must strive for in the future. cohesion policy also enables us to respond very strongly to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. if we want to improve research, development and innovation, we must also consider cohesion policy very closely as part of these objectives. we need to have a broader perspective on these goals. cohesion policy is certainly not all about solidarity. of course, it is part of it, but already through cohesion policy we have very strongly financed research, development and innovation. it is therefore well justified that in the next financial year we will also receive at least the same amount of money for cohesion policy as we have received so far. the fifth cohesion report takes these factors into account in an excellent way, and it is also very important that more attention be paid to performance. the mǎnescu report also touches on a very important core issue of cohesion policy, namely how to create a good cohesion policy that takes account of all levels. we have had some bad results, for example, in the implementation figures and so on. in cohesion policy, we as regional policy actors must take these problems seriously and seek solutions to them. i think that the mǎnescu report also deals very well with these questions.
mr president, the european protection order is an important step towards protecting victims in europe. we now have a strong signal to the council and the commission that the european parliament really wants this safeguard order and that it must be put into effect soon. we should now overcome the opposition in the council and all the legal objections in the commission. it is important that the directive is applied widely. it must include not only criminal law provisions but also various other protective provisions. and i don't want to make this into some kind of legal hair-splitting. this safeguard measure should also be flexible in order to take account of differences in national legislation. it is important that parliament's position stresses not only the position of victims of sexual or gender-based violence, but also that of other victims of violence. the directive must clearly set out the rights and remedies of victims, and i myself have tried to confirm these points in parliament's position. it is also important that the state from which the protection order is sought informs its citizens of these means. once the restraining order is in place, the work will certainly not stop there. the authorities must be trained and we cannot be satisfied with information being given only within the framework of existing campaigns.
in writing. the trafficking in human beings directive is an important step, as trafficking in human beings is a reality in europe too. the key is to prevent trafficking in human beings by addressing poverty and inequality and raising awareness. the priority is to identify the trafficking and to help the victim. the victim could be a man or a woman, a child or an adult. a construction worker may be a victim of human trafficking. the situation of a roma person may also meet the criteria for trafficking in human beings if it is based on organised activity and coercion. unfortunately, trafficking often involves sexist practices, with women and girls being forced into prostitution or forced labor. it is important that victims of trafficking in human beings are given the opportunity to seek protection and legal counselling.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, ramona mǎnescua, for a very good report. it is very important to note that good governance is needed in the area of regional policy. i believe that the principles of fairness and equity are the first and foremost elements of good governance. we must look at the european union as a whole and not just take raisins out of the bottle and support certain regions. the whole of europe must be developed in a balanced way and we must ensure that this can and will be done using the instruments of regional policy. i am also particularly concerned that when examining the criteria for regional policy and the financial criteria, we should not look at gross domestic product alone. it is not a sustainable criterion alone when we look at remote areas in the european union, and it is therefore important that sparsity of population and long distances are also taken into account. mr president, when we talk about good governance, we are talking above all about fair and equitable governance in the european union's regional policy.
mr president, the issue of immigration is very topical at the moment throughout the european union. it is therefore very important to create a network of partners. we must strive to develop europe in this respect too in a balanced way. unfortunately, recent examples of our failure to achieve a comprehensive immigration policy have been alarming. the people who have come to europe and settled here have not been prepared to accept the basic values of europe. we must therefore, as europeans, make sure that the core values on which the european union is built are preserved and that we stick to them. they are democracy, human rights and freedom of expression. these values must be particularly respected. it is therefore also important to create an ethical and values-based code for the network of liaison officers, which will act as a basis for the formulation of immigration policy. it is important that immigrants are able to integrate and accept the european values while living in the european union.
mr president, human trafficking is currently one of the most important, major issues and serious threats facing the european union. we must recognize and acknowledge this, even though we often hide behind the idea that we have already solved these problems. unfortunately, that is not the case. we must ensure that the fundamental rights of every human being can be fulfilled. the term human trafficking is human trafficking, and it is clear that there is nothing human about it. this is a shocking practice that robs people of the opportunity and dignity of a once-in-a-lifetime life. women and children are particularly at risk. prostitution and the sex trade are the most obvious examples. i would like to urge that on the basis of this report the european union actually start to act, not just to talk, but to act, so that human trafficking can be brought to an end on the territory of the european union and that it can be properly combated by means of sanctions that will really give every person the opportunity to live a life of dignity and well-being.
mr president, i would like to thank you. at least we now have a real debate in which the council representatives are involved. this debate on next year's budget has long been about who has done what, and why. in the eyes of many, this has been an interinstitutional debate, which is unfortunate in its own way, but at the same time, perhaps we can learn something for the future. a month ago i was quite critical of the way you in the council look at the future and the possibility of financing the priorities that you have set out, and i am referring in particular to the europe 2020 strategies, that is to say how to finance the ambitious objectives that we have in europe. my criticism remains, and i think it may be interesting to look at the budget we have now in the light of this. we have agreed on a budget with growth of 2.91%, which i personally think is a very reasonable solution. if the council had got its way, the research budget would have been cut by about half a billion euros compared with the amount originally proposed by the commission, and i have not yet fully understood what the council was thinking. parliament has subsequently corrected this in its own version, which is good. this means that we were in many ways moving in a better direction, and although the figures are the same as the council wanted, the content is much better than the council's 2.91%. i think it is worth noting that, although we are still at the same figures, there have been significant budgetary shifts. the council must now consider how you will actually find the money needed for the future initiatives we have agreed on, because it will not be available in the coming years if you continue with the logic you have.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the authors of this report for the hard work that has gone into reaching this compromise. these negotiations have been particularly difficult, both in the light of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and in the light of the tight budgetary situation in the member states. for this reason, i thank all our negotiators. this is the first time that the budget of the european union has been decided in a joint debate, and if anything, this process has in my view further underlined the need for parliament to call for a long time for better dialogue between the two budgetary authorities. continuous negotiations and convergence are needed, both in the annual and multiannual budgetary frameworks, to ensure that the institutions speak the same and unified language at the negotiating table. but now we can be satisfied that we have the 2011 budget. the uncertainties in the economic crisis must be minimized.
i would like to thank commissioner hedegaard for his work at the cancun climate summit. cancún was a step forward, but unfortunately a much smaller step than what was really needed. in any event, cancún formalised the emission commitments given in copenhagen. the eu is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the eu's climate leadership is now being tested in practice by whether we are prepared to tighten our emissions target from -20% to -30%. this is the best way to ensure that we get what we need next year in durban, a comprehensive international climate agreement. after cancún, the argument that the eu is alone with its climate goals is clearly outdated.
in writing. mr president, the cancun meeting has been hailed as a success, and the choice of words is justified only in the knowledge that nothing was expected in advance. however, it is important for the eu to face the facts: nothing has been done to reduce emissions and no reduction commitments have been made. we have no global agreement in sight, and we have nothing to justify tightening the eu's own and unilateral target from 20% to 30%. in cancun, the parliament's delegation met achim steiner, the unep director, who said with a serious face that europe had only benefited from the 20% target - it had boosted us and improved our competitiveness. that is why he was in favour of further blackmailing. i would now like to challenge all those companies that are in the global business and think they are exposed to carbon leakage: tell achim steiner and similar influential leaders of organizations about your financial realities. please provide clear figures on the direct and indirect cost increases caused by emissions trading if you disagree. it is not right for the citizens and workers of europe that our key decision-makers - even in the commission, from which steiner is presumably informed - are kept in artificial reality, with their feet firmly in the air. the success of cancun was that political pride was saved: it was agreed that it would be agreed. it's about realizing that the climate leap is about to come to an end, and climate change is going to become the normal, everyday thing. entertainment and show business are creeping up on it. maybe that's a good thing. let us get back to the point: a sensible comprehensive approach to environmental protection.
mr president, i believe that each country is responsible for its own economy, that is to say, they are not responsible for each other's debts. this is also contained in article 125 of the treaty. when it suits, the agreement is respected, but when it does not suit, it is not respected. this is what we have seen in the referendum: france says no, the netherlands says no, ireland says no. two were handled through parliament and one in a new referendum. these articles are bending like the wind. the finnish government has imposed such unreasonable guarantee liabilities on finnish taxpayers that we are obliged to pay. we do not understand that the finnish worker and small businessman sweats his brow to pay off the debts of gamblers and liars. it's not right at all. when the soviet union was in trouble, more socialism was called for. people gathered in moscow, more socialism. when there are problems in europe, people come to brussels, more integration, more integration. the end result will be exactly the same. this isn't gonna work. healthy societies are built from the bottom up, democracy from the bottom up, not from the ivory tower from the top down. this is how it goes. the european common economic policy will not work. europe can function as an economic and free trade area, and that is what it must be restored to. a few words about eurobonds. i went to the mellunmäki in helsinki to talk about eurobonds and when i said what they were, the women grabbed their purses tighter and the men said: 'i wonder if i still have my wallet'. this isn't gonna work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that the past year has shown that a common currency needs common, clear rules of the game and it is obvious that we do not have such rules of the game today. it is also clear that the euro area suffers from a clear lack of credibility both in the eyes of the people and in the eyes of the financial markets. i do not agree with udo bullman, but i think the commission has done a good job and has come up with ambitious proposals. as for the challenges we are facing at the moment, i do not think the problem lies with the commission, but rather with the council. and the council has a rather awkward meeting in the next few days. i would like to express my satisfaction that the commission has now also put forward a proposal which will enable us to correct macroeconomic imbalances in the future. so far we have only focused on municipal finances and their deficits and that is completely inadequate, as the case of ireland clearly demonstrates. what makes me less happy is the way the council is working, including nicolas sarkozy's and angela merkel's co-operation, to make the commission's good proposal much less binding, which means that the proposal does not lead to any improvements. we should remember what happened in 2005 when the stability and growth pact was unveiled. it was the same countries that created a situation that could eventually lead to what has now happened in greece. i hope the council will get its act together and realise what kind of decisions we need to take, otherwise we will not get out of this situation.
mr president, i too would like to ask the honourable member how the socialists in ireland or greece have put the country into debt. is it not the duty of the right, since you are the dominant political party in europe at the moment and since the commission is right-wing, to show the way out of this crisis and not to blame the previous or the preceding governments?
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank everyone for their cooperation. this has been a wonderful, easy collaboration. the citizens' initiative is a welcome addition to civic engagement. i hope it will be a significant addition to the political debate. not all initiatives may attract sufficient support, but they can bring new perspectives to the debate. parliament has wanted to make the citizens' initiative as user-friendly as possible, and in its main features it has succeeded. i am particularly pleased that the commission and parliament have to hold a public consultation once a million signatures have been collected. this forces the eu institutions to really listen to what the signatories have to offer. at the same time, the commission must explain to the signatories, and in detail, any negative position it adopts. mr president, i would have liked this citizens' initiative to have been signed not only by citizens but also by the people living in each country, but there was not enough support for this. the importance of the citizens' initiative will only be seen once it has been adopted. i hope that it will in time trigger a wider debate on eu affairs than what has happened today.
in writing. the citizens' initiative is welcome as an additional form of civic engagement. in addition to the legislative initiative itself, the citizens' initiative plays an important role in stimulating political debate. however, the scope of the citizens' initiative is not yet fully defined. the european citizens' initiative should be able to call for amendments to the eu treaties. the lisbon treaty also gives the commission a say in this area. the citizens' initiative should therefore also have a say. in the field of social issues, for example, initiatives can be seen, the justification for which is sought in the eu charter of fundamental rights. the debate on the need to amend the treaties should therefore not be limited to a narrow interpretation of the citizens' initiative, but should be based on a citizen's perspective.
mr president, it is significant that parliament has for the first time been able to adopt a budget. in the next budget lines, i think parliament should make sure that the eu's ability to increase its own financial contribution and also to support material efficiency and climate change policy with its own budgetary policy choices, and thus also the europe 2020 strategy and the greener economy, is of paramount importance.
mr president, i would like to say a few words about the citizens' initiative. it is true that the treaty of lisbon has given us a new initiative which encourages citizens to participate in democracy. when a million citizens sign a petition, the commission then takes it up, but is that all? i think this is a good initiative, but we have to think about how we will take it forward. the starting point would be that citizens should participate in democratic action, primarily through elections. it would be a way of advancing the things that are important to people. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. so we have to think in a new way about how we can really encourage people to participate in political decision-making.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr kinga gal on this excellent report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, but this is only a report. we must remember that we still have a lot of work to do in the european union. unfortunately, despite what is said in theory, the basic rights of all people are not realized in practice. for example, we have a large roma minority whose basic rights are not fully respected. we also have problems with freedom of speech. we have today awarded the sakharov prize for freedom of expression to a cuban dissident, but we still have problems within europe too. it is not always possible to speak freely and to express one's opinion. we have a concrete example of this in the european parliament, where a colleague of ours is walking around here surrounded by security guards because he is afraid for his own safety. we must defend the fundamental rights of europe and fight for the right of everyone to freedom of expression in the european union.
mr president, with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, one of the most important new areas for the well-being of citizens is the binding charter of fundamental rights. the next step is for the eu institutions to focus on monitoring and promoting the implementation of fundamental rights in all union policies and in all member states in the most binding and effective way possible. to achieve this, it is important that individuals and also the various institutions work to bring forward the equality directive, which is currently stuck in the council, and thereby provide legally binding means to tackle discrimination in the member states. i would also like to point out that it is particularly important to tackle not only outright discrimination but also tacit discrimination, which affects, for example, older people.
mr president, advertising often serves as useful information for consumers and supports informed choices. the industry has also had a very good self-regulation in terms of codes of ethics which define what is acceptable and good advertising. however, in recent years, this practice has clearly deteriorated, as shown by, among other things, the use of children and advertising targeted at children. i therefore believe, mr president, that parliament should intervene in this matter and, on the basis of this good report, we should also consider at a later stage whether the directive needs to be reformed and tightened up.
i also voted in favour of this report by mr bendsen on energy efficiency. the european union is also committed to energy efficiency and savings and to the use of renewable energy sources through the europe 2020 programme. but we must remember that when we set these kinds of goals for ourselves, we all have to commit ourselves to them. this has been a problem throughout europe, that there have been good objectives, but the member states have not committed themselves to them. of course, it is desirable that energy efficiency should not be confined to europe but should extend beyond that. it is clear that energy efficiency and saving must not in any case become an obstacle to competitiveness, but we must also ensure that we can compete on the world market and thus also ensure the well-being and competitiveness of europe. as i said, the important thing is to stick to the commitments we've made.
mr president, i voted for a more binding and ambitious line in this energy efficiency action programme and i am very pleased with the final position of this parliament on this matter. the primary means of combating climate change is not simply through international commitments or declarations, but through practical means to achieve emission reduction targets. the key priority here is to improve energy efficiency. to achieve this, we need a very broad and comprehensive policy for energy efficiency, which is binding and, where appropriate, also economically incentivised and sanctioned. this action programme is a good step in that direction.
in writing. - mr president, when i voted against the mandatory 20% energy saving target, i - like most of my political group - did not take a position on the essence of energy saving, but on the way in which it is being promoted. the importance of improving energy efficiency is undeniable. on the other hand, i do not think that the efforts to solve the eu's climate, energy security and supply problems are based on a sustainable and wise basis. in the famous 20/20/20 climate and energy package, the energy saving target was the only non-binding target, as it was supposed to be strengthened alongside other mandatory targets such as emission cuts and the increase of renewable energy sources. the energy saving objective was not achieved in the way we wanted, but now rather than burdening our community with yet another binding target, on top of other binding targets and not knowing how to achieve the target, we should look at whether those other targets were set correctly in the first place. in pursuing emission reductions and renewable energy targets, our member states and their businesses are under pressure, with the temptation to make short-term and unsustainable decisions growing overwhelming. if we add one more constraint to it, we will find ourselves in a situation where the eu is literally cutting its own branch, while already causing only a massive transfer of revenue without any further benefit to the climate, the environment or our energy security. the opposite has happened when good intentions are involved. the global industrial environment is deteriorating, the burning of wood is unsustainable in the name of renewable energy sources, and at the same time the problem itself, the emissions of carbon dioxide, is growing radically beyond our borders. it is time to take sensible and sustainable action, not short-sighted force-feeding without sensible concrete.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to welcome the high representative to the european parliament today. i would also like to warmly congratulate mrs andrikienė for her work. it was excellent team work, which is why it could be adopted nearly unanimously in the committee on foreign affairs. i was very fortunate to have been invited this autumn to participate in the discussions between the member states on how the eu human rights policy could be made more effective and more coherent. i believe that we have now a historic opportunity to review our human rights policy, as you have indicated, baroness ashton. my suggestion is that this process should be as inclusive and as open as possible. i would very much recommend that you send a communication in due time – not too late, of course – to the parliament and the council, so that we can have real high-level discussion and engagement. today it is very important to be reminded that the lisbon treaty places respect for human rights at the core of the union’s external policy. for this reason, we need to have the proper structures in place. we know that you, the high representative, are committed to human rights and democratic structures at headquarters. could we please be told what that might mean in practice? are you able to give us the commitment that you gave parliament in the summer? i would also strongly urge you to go for the decision to establish the brussels-based cohom, which is the eu council working party on human rights. if we need to have more coherence – which we do – we definitely need to have this permanent structure in place. lastly, i would like to thank you for your efforts in bringing the member states together last friday in oslo for the nobel peace prize ceremony. i have reason to believe that, without your efforts, it would not have happened. it is a very good basis for our human rights work so that the union will have a clearer, louder and more effective voice in the world.
madam president, i would like to address an issue that has been raised by many colleagues, and that is the suppression of the rights of christians. i very much wish, in the name of consistency, that colleagues would be equally interested in repression of the rights of representatives of other religions, because we are very often told by other countries that we are one-sided and biased, so i think this is a question of real coherence and credibility. i would like the guiding line of the eu human rights foreign policy to be the avoidance of any double standards, and i hope that the european parliament will stick to that. lastly, can i ask baroness ashton if she is going to respond to the many questions that we have about the new human rights structures in the eas, since these will be assembled in the very near future.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank pino arlacchi, who has done a good job with this strategy. i think it deservedly shows the challenges we face, but also the mistakes we have made so far. i hope that we can learn from this document to develop our efforts in afghanistan. there are some things worth thinking about. firstly, the rather radical but important idea of actually having serious negotiations with the so-called moderate taliban. this is probably the only way out, while i think many of us have a hard time defining what a moderate taliban really is and who they are. i think we have reason to discuss this, and i think that recent events have shown that this is not quite clear to each of us. another issue i would like to raise is the question of aid money and how it is allocated. i think it is good that in future they dare to channel them through the afghan state budget. it is probably the only way, after all, although i think it has to be done with care. we also have reason to show the voters in our own countries that we are following up on this and that the misuse of aid money is not going to be too great. last but not least, i think it is good to mention pakistan's role, because it is also crucial. i think we all agree that the international community has an important role to play in pressuring pakistan to do what it should do. finally, i would like to say that i come from a country where the debate on afghanistan at the moment is only about whether or not finnish troops should remain and that is not particularly constructive. the content is not discussed, only the being and non-being of the troops. the same applies to our neighbour sweden, for example, and that is why initiatives such as this serious strategy are a good contribution to the discussion on the future.
mr president, my first reason for asking to speak was that i am the coordinator of the alde group and i would like to thank mr paliadeli on behalf of alde for this excellent report and to say a few words about the history of the people and the cultural heritage of europe. so my question is really that ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, the commission has been very active in the fight against fraud. first of all, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to make a brief statement on behalf of my group, the liberal, democratic and reformist group, on this important report on the european cultural heritage label. listening to the discussion today, my impression has sometimes been that of what a teacher once said, that everything that can be misunderstood will also be misunderstood. i mean that this good project, which aims to promote europeanism, is intended to show that europe's strength lies in its diversity, in its unity in diversity, which some people tend to see as a threat to the nation state or a threat to european identity or something else. this isn't about that. i think this is a very good initiative and i can say that we need more european knowledge. we need to know each other, because that is how we can build a better europe of the future. europe is above all a mosaic of peoples, on which common ideas of democracy, human dignity and freedom of opinion have been born. these are the core values we want to take forward. when we talk about european cultural heritage, we have a very rich cultural heritage. i believe that this small investment we are making now, 1.3 million for the whole programme, will also bring many economic benefits to the sites that receive the cultural heritage label. the main benefit is not economic, but above all spiritual, because it strengthens european identity and the understanding of how this mosaic europe came into being and what the basis and foundation of this mosaic europe is. when we know our background and our history, then we can also build a sustainable future. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr paliadeli, for his report. i think that is very good and necessary. it is good to build on the european heritage identity.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the excellent chairman of our committee, doris pack, who is also the rapporteur of this report. i can tell you that when this show was in the hands of doris pack, it was in good hands. as our good commissioner knows, doris pack is a long-standing professional in these very lifelong learning and youth programme issues. with this matter being prepared, it has been a pleasure to follow the fine way in which this work has progressed. it is great that young people in switzerland can also take part in the success stories we have built in the european union. it is quite true that even those who are very critical of the european union, even those who oppose it, will nevertheless say with one voice that the european union does have success stories, such as the lifelong learning programme, the youth programme or the cultural programme. this is one of the great things about the european union. this is the side we must emphasize. the european union and these programmes have enabled us to encourage young europeans to take up education and to develop their own capital. on the other hand, it has also increased the capital of nations. in this respect, it is very important that switzerland is not excluded from this cooperation in any way, despite the fact that switzerland is not a member of the eu or the eea, but that swiss young people are given the opportunity to participate in the programmes and thus advance matters in a reciprocal way. i believe it creates added value in every way. finally, mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur. i hope that this programme will be a success story for the swiss as it has been for us, the citizens of the member states of the european union.
i would like to say, mr president, that i voted in favour of this excellent report. the paliad has done a very good job in building the european cultural heritage and its symbol. i think this is a good example of how, after all, at a relatively low cost, special added value can be created in the european union. i believe that these sites, which will receive the european cultural heritage label, will certainly benefit from it. it will be reflected in their tourism, and in this way it will make europe better known. it is very important that we remember that europe is united in its diversity and that we should ensure that citizens of the various european countries can become more familiar with the european mosaic identity. mr president, i have the floor. when people leave the room, it's a little hard to concentrate, but i hope you heard this.
i would like to point out, mr president, that the lifelong learning programme is one of europe's success stories and that mrs doris pack should be commended for her good work. i voted in favour of this report and i was particularly pleased that even those forces which are very strongly opposed to european integration are able to see the need for projects of the lifelong learning programme type. it is very important that this programme can be extended to the outside world, and now switzerland is involved. moreover, this does not cost us, the taxpayers of the european union, but switzerland pays for its own contribution. it is important that we extend in this way the best practices and best programmes that we have in the european union. the lifelong learning programme, as well as the youth programme, are just such programmes. in this context, i would also like to welcome switzerland to the european youth and cultural programmes.
i voted in favour of the andrikienė report. i think it is very important that we talk about human rights and raise them. it is the very heart of the european union. we must also make sure that we ourselves live according to what we teach. this may be some kind of problem. we have many resolutions, but how do we live them? it's all about practical reality. perhaps i should have taken the floor on the arlacci report. i mean, there were more than 50 people standing on the other side of the room, and i counted with my colleagues. we've determined that there are fewer than 40 of them, and no action is being taken. if we treat in this way some people in this chamber whose views may not correspond to our own or to the majority's, then we are not creating the right foundation and basis for criticism of those countries which lack democracy. we must be very careful in the european union to ensure that everything we do here is in accordance with the law and regulations and with all the human rights provisions. i therefore believe that we can improve on this point, so that we can be credible in explaining things to russia and the rest of the world. we must make sure that we do not discriminate against any minority. everyone who works in the european union must have access to full human rights.
in writing. - where's our money going in afghanistan? i welcome the motion for a resolution on the new strategy for afghanistan. the report makes a good point of the many problems facing afghanistan. there is no military solution to afghanistan, as the report states. if the soldiers have not been able to bring peace to afghanistan, neither has the money we have given it. the report notes that more than usd 40 billion in international aid was channelled to afghanistan between 2002 and 2009. of this $40 billion, the afghan government received only $6 billion, with the remaining $34 billion funneled into the country through other channels. of that aid, 70 to 80 percent never reached the intended recipients, the people of afghanistan. in addition, the cost of the war in afghanistan between 2001 and 2009 was over us$300 billion. so these huge sums are not benefiting the afghan people, but, for example, the arms industry, mercenaries and international companies that are benefiting from the money spent in afghanistan. it is important that the report should highlight these shortcomings.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, parliament’s resolution is timely and important. thousands of people are subject to caning in malaysia every year. caning is an inhuman and degrading form of punishment which should be abolished everywhere in the world. caning is a form of torture. according to amnesty international, a muslim woman was caned last year in malaysia where sharia law is applied. the reason for the punishment was drinking beer. amnesty international has also reported on caning of refugees and immigrant workers in malaysia. we urge the government of malaysia to abolish caning as a form of punishment. we also call on the malaysian government to ratify the protocol to the united nations convention on torture, as well as the international covenant on civil and political rights.
mr president, the court's sentence of rape, which involves tying the convict to a stretcher and beating him with a stick on his back and behind, is unethical and degrading. in malaysia, this practice is already epidemic. a state which considers corporal punishment and discipline to be an effective means of preventing crime is not a state governed by the rule of law, and the eu should not give further trade preferences to such a state. such cruel and inhuman forms of punishment must be stopped, no matter in which country they occur. with this resolution, parliament rightly calls on the malaysian authorities to put an immediate end to corporal punishment and torture in law and in practice.
