mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to the question of the installation of body scanners at airports, which we are presented with today as the solution to the terrorist threat, while at the same time feeding a feeling of fear. some states are just going along with it, without even considering the impact of such a measure in terms of public health, public safety and, above all, public freedom. let's face it, there is no such thing as 100% security. a moment of inattention, a human error, that's possible. moreover, the example of the failed attack on the amsterdam-detroit flight has above all shown the weaknesses of an intelligence system. it is in this context that solutions must be sought to move towards a culture of exchange and trust between the various authorities and stakeholders. finally, to target airports exclusively means to ignore the very real possibility of malicious groups operating in railway stations, subways and other places where people congregate, and there are many of them. so before any hasty and costly decision is taken, let us first take the initiative of a broad and transparent debate devoid of emotion and objectivity.
mr president, if you'll excuse me. it's a first, so i was just checking to make sure the procedure was correct, and in the meantime... mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention at the beginning of this year, which the un has declared the 'world year of biodiversity', to the failure of the european strategy for 2004-2010 to combat the loss of biodiversity. 40% of our natural heritage is under threat. the state of biodiversity is the thermometer of the state of the health of the planet, of the state of our development system, and the crisis is accelerating. i therefore hope that today and tomorrow the european union and the european parliament will be able to rise to the challenge and set ambitious, cross-cutting targets for the fight against biodiversity loss in all sectoral policies in 2010. we must act, there is still time, and 2010 is the year of all possibilities. i hope we can do more to help than we did in copenhagen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the gaza strip is in danger of being strangled. under a strict israeli blockade since 2007, the population of gaza suffered in 2009 the deadly aggression that gave rise to the goldstone report, overwhelming the israeli military authorities accused of war crimes. today, the egyptian authorities have started to build an underground metal barrier to prevent any supply from the tunnels. when will we stop imposing this collective punishment on men, women and children, whose suffering is being exploited on a political chessboard from another age? the european union must act. the european union has assets as israel's leading economic partner and the main contributor of aid to the palestinian territories. the israeli government will only agree to change its policy under pressure from the international community. the eu can play a key role in the resumption of the peace process and the establishment of an independent, sovereign palestinian state within the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much indeed for your kind words. honourable members, i asked for this debate to be able to update this house on the situation in haiti following the terrible earthquake of 12 january. the losses are devastating and the damage is enormous. up to three million people have been affected by the tragedy, and the death toll continues to mount. this is a massive humanitarian and political disaster. our immediate focus is on working with the united nations and the haitian leadership to ease the suffering of the haitian people. our commitment to rebuilding haiti is long term. many european citizens have also lost their lives, and around 1 000 are still unaccounted for. the eu has responded quickly, not seeking headlines but with a total focus on getting help to the people in need. on advice from the united nations, we resisted the urge to travel to haiti immediately. that would only have diverted attention and scarce resources away from the relief effort. we will of course travel to haiti as soon as it is appropriate, and i have agreed with commissioner de gucht that he will travel to haiti this week to extend the eu’s condolences and underline our commitment to the people. he will also take the opportunity to review our aid efforts so far and discuss with the united nations and our people on the ground the most pressing needs for the weeks and months to come. in the mean time we continue to work flat out on all tracks: humanitarian, political and security. over the past days, i have been in constant contact with secretary of state clinton, with the united nations leadership, with eu foreign ministers and with canada, which is leading the ‘friends of haiti’ group: all this with a view to ensuring an effective and coordinated international response. i will travel to the united states this week to follow up on this and other issues with the united states administration, and with the un secretary-general and others in new york. the un has asked for urgent financial aid – usd 575 million – as well as logistical assistance to transport humanitarian aid. yesterday, the united nations secretary-general asked for police and military reinforcements of the un peacekeeping mission as well. to help mobilise and coordinate our response, i asked the spanish eu presidency to call an extraordinary foreign affairs council yesterday. for the first time since the lisbon treaty entered into effect, we are now pulling together the efforts of the commission and the council secretariat, and the member states, in a comprehensive approach, under my overall coordination. this is ground-breaking. we had a productive council meeting yesterday. everyone agreed on the need for a rapid response and close coordination with the united nations. in terms of financial assistance, the council reached the following conclusions. it welcomed the commission’s preliminary commitment for immediate humanitarian assistance of eur 30 million, in addition to eur 92 million in preliminary commitments by member states. it welcomed the commission’s preliminary commitment of eur 100 million for early non-humanitarian assistance, for instance in rehabilitation and reconstruction, and it took note of the commission’s preliminary indication that eur 200 million would be available for longer-term responses. it called for, in due course and after post-emergency needs have been fully assessed, an international conference on haiti. in total, this is a big response in a short time. assistance will be targeted, too, to the dominican republic. finding enough money is going to be less of a problem at the moment than getting it out to the people who need it. we must ensure that it is properly targeted towards sustainable political and physical reconstruction. following the un secretary-general’s request for help with transport of humanitarian aid and for additional police units, the council invited me to identify eu member state contributions and make proposals for this mobilisation. i am working on this. we convened a political and security committee meeting immediately after the council meeting to follow up. early indications of member state contributions are already now available, including possible contributions through the european gendarmerie force. work will continue in the council preparatory groups during the coming days with a view to a rapid, targeted response. the foreign affairs council will meet again next monday. we will follow up on haiti and consider further actions. this is a major test of eu foreign policy in the new world of the lisbon treaty. the people of haiti – and our own people – expect a swift, effective and coordinated response. this is what we believe we are delivering. i look forward to working with parliament on this and am pleased to be here today to give you this information and to hear your views.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by underlining the unprecedented nature of this disaster – in terms of humanitarian impact but also in terms of the impact on the country as a whole. haiti is one of the poorest countries in the world. it is a country in a chronically fragile situation whose existing basic functions and capacities have been very seriously disrupted. also, the international community has been hard hit. staff of the united nations and ngos and our own commission staff are still missing, and this also explains the difficulties of organising aid on the spot. people have to understand that it is not out of a lack of competence, but because the aid community has itself been hit. relief operations are not flowing as speedily as one would wish, although one sees that this is getting better by the hour. in other words, this is not only about saving human lives. we have in fact to save the country as a whole. that is why the high representative, cathy ashton, called for this extraordinary council meeting, which was a very useful tool in addressing the problem. let me just very briefly focus on four main challenges. first, we have of course to address humanitarian needs. these are enormous and concern chiefly emergency medical care for the injured, water and sanitation – because there is risk of cholera, for example – food and shelter. what is lacking most is surgery, primary health care and drugs, water treatment kits, food assistance, emergency shelter and logistics support. what is in enough supply is search-and-rescue capacity. the organisational coordinating effort’s priorities are to complete the needs assessment, to have a better picture of the detailed needs and to organise the transport logistics. that will also be addressed within the framework of the eu institutions. lastly, we have to organise the coordination of international relief efforts. that is always very difficult in these kinds of circumstances. let me stress that, only hours after the earthquake, european echo and mic teams were deployed on the spot. they have been working there ever since to contribute to needs assessment and aid coordination. we are working with teams from ocha, a united nations organisation, and are in constant contact with john holmes, the un emergency relief coordinator. the second point is to build, or rebuild, the basic state capacity. this is very important. this country has to function again, not only physically – most of the buildings have disappeared – but with a lot of high officials having gone missing and state structures having been severely disrupted. the council welcomes the fact that we will urgently send a team of eu experts with the specific task of assessing the most critical needs of the haitian state and civil administration in order to provide technical assistance. our diplomatic and cooperation staff on the ground are of course best placed to do that, but their capacity is overstretched. this is something that will become more and more important in the coming days. as the european union and the european commission, together with the council, we could play a leadership role in re-establishing state institutions physically, and also in terms of people. third is, of course, the plan to reconstruct the country, where we have to look beyond the immediate relief phase. in a few weeks many emergency teams and means deployed at the present time will have left and there is a risk – very typical of this kind of disaster – of a second-wave disaster if we do not sustain our assistance and support. we must immediately set up massive, coordinated medium- and long-term common eu response plans for the crisis. our services are working on this. this should be designed to ensure a proper division of labour among eu institutions and member states and to ensure a linked relief rehabilitation and development approach, with a sustained and seamless transition between immediate relief and post-emergency response. we have been calling all the member states to fully engage in these efforts, and to turn into actions all our commitments for coordination and aid effectiveness. this is a time when the strength of our commitments will be tested and must come out strong if we are to succeed. lastly, the financial response. as the high representative has already outlined, the european commission will make a major contribution, first of all in terms of humanitarian aid – eur 30 million, of which the largest part – eur 22 million to be exact – is completely fresh money that comes on top of the already existing humanitarian engagements we have with haiti. the early recovery assistance – which is not humanitarian assistance, and what i just said about the state institutions of course comes under this umbrella – amounting to eur 100 million, with a 50-50 balance between money redirected and fresh money, and then the longer-term reconstruction assistance, where there is now an initial amount of eur 200 million. then we will have to see where we stand. now one is hearing figures in the region of usd 10 billion. that seems a lot to me, and in any case cannot be matched by the commission budget. we will have to see with the pledging conference and with the member states how exactly we are going to eventually participate in higher sums. that is the eu-wide package that has now been prepared on top of all the contributions that are already being made and will be made by the member states. as the high representative said, i will be going to the region – haiti and also the dominican republic – tomorrow morning to have discussions with the authorities, including on the efforts to try to rebuild the state institutions. the president and major ngos are on the spot. i will also go to the dominican republic. it is important that we also see those authorities, because they are the neighbours. you can already see that the situation might eventually create some overstretching at the border, so i will also see the dominican authorities. that is all i have to say at the moment. on my return i will report back to the development committee, on the monday afternoon.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam high representative, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this new humanitarian crisis in which haiti is plunged may be greater in scope than any previous one, so i doubt that we can find the right words to think of the victims, to speak to the survivors and to address the families to tell them how much we share their pain and are aware of our responsibility. as powerful as the earthquake was, it alone does not explain the extent of the damage. this is also due to the chronic poverty in which haiti has survived for many years. and the international community has so far been unable to change anything about it. worse, by imposing policies on haiti that we now know were not working, international institutions, europe and its partners have exacerbated the fragility of its social fabric, its economy, its institutions. in the 1970s, haiti was almost self-sufficient in food. it produced 90 percent of its agricultural needs. today, more than half of it is imported. it is doubtful that this could have been done without damaging local production. haiti, even before the earthquake, was a country without resources, because it was deprived of the resources to which it was entitled. so we must first of all give haiti as much support as possible to deal with the urgent problems. from this point of view, the difficulties in establishing international assistance are regrettable. in the future, we need to improve our methods. but above all, we must realize that long-term development aid cannot be effective if we impose what we consider to be the right priorities when everyone on the ground tells us that we are wrong. we must question our own methods, and this will not go unchallenged in the long term in terms of increasing the funds we allocate to development policies. the european union has announced the amount of aid it will release for haiti, and the member states have done the same. we are talking about 130 million euros for short-term needs and 200 million for long-term needs. i'd like to compare that figure to other numbers, the $155 billion that the city and wall street banks are about to pay to a few thousand people who work in the banks. this raises the question of the development model we want to promote at the global level. emergency humanitarian aid is necessary, but it is not enough. it must not be a substitute for development aid, which should not be viewed as a real dictate by the countries which are supposed to benefit from it. the first way of helping countries in great difficulty is to respect them and allow them to benefit from their own resources. we must cancel haiti's debt and pay what we owe it. mr president, madam high representative, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we owe it to the victims of haiti to help them rebuild a country that was devastated even before a natural disaster had completely overturned it. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam vice-president and high representative, commissioner, i want to say, once again, how shocked we are by what the haitian people, the children of haiti, have to endure. for the past seven days, they've been living, surviving in a living hell. the momentum of global solidarity is heartwarming, but it still needs to be strengthened, to be better coordinated in the service of the thirsty, hungry, homeless and medically deprived population. we greet all those and all those who are taking part. the european union has decided to provide initial financial resources. but we can't just leave it at that. the european union's aid must be considerably increased and the world banking system must be brought into play. the european union must urgently send surplus food to the haitian people. we can be honest with each other. our continent owes haiti a real debt, a duty to make reparation after so many years of domination and plunder. we must learn all the lessons of the international financial institutions that have taken this caribbean pearl under their wing and have suffocated it with odious debt and the equally odious interest on that debt. our parliament should vote for the immediate and unconditional cancellation of all this debt. our group hopes that the forthcoming conference in montreal will effectively prepare an international conference on the repair, reconstruction and sustainable development of haiti with the people of haiti. this reconstruction must be placed under the auspices of the united nations, so that the haitian people can regain their economic and political sovereignty. haiti must not be the subject of a battle for dominance between great powers. so while we welcome the solidarity efforts of the united states, we must be careful not to allow this terrible disaster to serve as a pretext for the north american leaders to occupy the island, administer it and establish military bases there. europe must be an example. it must have only one objective, one concern: the people, the children of haiti.
mr president, madam high representative, as has been said before, the disaster was of an extreme magnitude, due to the violence of the earthquake, probably one of the worst in history, which therefore raises fears of a terrifying human toll. i nevertheless welcome the swift response of the european commission and the member states and their commitment to allocate a massive €429 million in aid for emergency humanitarian aid and reconstruction in haiti. however, it is regrettable that europeans have acted in a dispersed fashion and that the action of the european union is not sufficiently visible, which is contrary to the effectiveness of the american aid machine and makes it forget that the european union is the world's leading donor of humanitarian and development aid. the european commission has also activated the community civil protection mechanism, which coordinates member states' relief offers and is now the main component of the crisis response system. recent events confirm the need to improve the eu's crisis response. a real organisation of civil protection capabilities is essential, and i would like to recall michel barnier's proposal from 2006, which is ready, which needs to be implemented, and which is to create a european civil protection force. in addition, the president of the council, mr van rompuy, today spoke in favour of a rapid reaction force. within days, the americans had assumed a dominant role in relief and coordination. it is essential to recall the central and overall coordinating role of ocha, the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs, which is best placed to carry out this coordination. while we're not misunderstanding each other, this is not about waging a flag war. but good organization means saving time and money, and i believe that european citizens have a right to know what the european union is doing.
mr president, is haiti doomed to misery? since independence, natural disasters have followed political calamities, and now we are facing a historic drama. there are deaths, injuries, untold destruction and the destruction of national political structures and cooperation structures. we have to move beyond fate. the european union must be involved in this dual effort of emergency and reconstruction. we owe this to our many ties with haiti. first, historical: it was once the most prosperous of all the colonies. the cotonou agreements make the island a privileged partner. and finally, geographical, since haiti is a neighbour of the union thanks to the outermost regions. the crisis in haiti is also the first test of the new european external action service, which you are in charge of, mrs ashton. and it's been conclusive up to now. this disaster also highlights the challenges and improvements we need to make to this structure, because beyond the solidarity movement on our continent, the american reaction raises the question of our capacity to mobilize. the remarkable efforts made to promote european coordination and the contributions of the member states should not, therefore, obscure the difficulty of the discussions on the deployment of the european gendarmerie force. while it is essential that the union's expenditure be guided by the united nations, these difficulties lead to the conclusion that the european union must have an autonomous, integrated structure with the resources to cope with a task as complex as humanitarian emergency. finally, the reconstruction phase presents a huge challenge. there is no shortage of projects: political, administrative, economic, social and environmental. we may be at year zero of a new era for haiti. this is a major political challenge for a europe which must assert itself as a visible leader in this process.
mr president, mrs ashton, that is enough! that's enough of that. every time there's a disaster, it's the same thing. the french send a plane, the belgians, the italians, the germans, everyone does the same thing, and it's always the same, it's always the same. in the field, the result is always the same, no coordination, lost opportunities for the victims, disorganization. when will this end? when will the commission finally act? and don't come telling us it's complicated, because the plans are ready. you just have to take it. in 2006, michel barnier proposed the creation of a european civil protection force, on the basis of the voluntary action of the states, without having to wait for a hypothetical unanimity of the 27, by pooling existing national civil protection units, training them together with common rescue techniques, common means of communication, a common staff. it's easy, mrs. ashton, do it with those who want it! and the rest of them will join us when they realize it's the future. after the tsunami, commitments were made. and today, nothing has been done. i am not going to say that the commission's inaction is criminal. mrs ashton, why is europe condemned to repeat its mistakes? mrs ashton, no one doubts your good will, but announce here today the creation of this european coordination force. parliament will follow you. if you need any support, we're here to help. but please, stop talking about coordination, do it, this coordination! don't wait for the next disaster!
mr president, mrs ashton, politics is all about symbols and that is why i think you should not be here, but in haiti. i have the feeling, and i say this with great sadness, that you have not taken the measure of the event and of this terrible tragedy and, in the end, when you look at all this, europe has never been so absent. we are the first donors, but we don't exist. and i have a second feeling, which is that the more we make appointments, the more we create positions and titles, the less we exist, and this should make us question ourselves. how many more disasters will it take before the european union's leaders are finally up to their responsibilities? there is a michel barnier report on the table from 2006. what are we waiting for to adopt him? what are we waiting for to apply it?
in writing. i am surprised that the high representative for foreign affairs is not present at the scene of the natural disaster in haiti. despite the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european union is still struggling to show its face on the international scene, and this is very regrettable. the european crisis response apparatus seems to me to be too fragmented, too complex and not sufficiently successful. what exactly will the edf and the stability instrument finance for the rehabilitation of haiti (the 100 million planned) and for the reconstruction of the country (200 million)? in addition, in order to respond to the un's request for logistical and security support, the european union must, in my view, be able to use all the instruments provided by the lisbon treaty, including the military response. i am in favour of the rapid establishment of a european civil protection force as envisaged by michel barnier in 2006 with the aim of achieving a planned, genuinely coordinated and effective european response. the recent statements by herman van rompuy are in the right direction. he called for the creation of a humanitarian rapid reaction force. what exactly will this project be and when will it be launched?
mr president, the iranians have said that they are ready for a gradual exchange of low-enriched uranium for fuel. so this production was rejected by the group of six, even though, in fact, it was not so far removed from the proposal that the same group had formulated a little earlier. i was not at all unaware of the negotiating skills of the iranians, particularly as regards the definition of the progressive nature of the exchange they proposed, but in view of the stakes, mrs ashton, do you not think that this refusal by the group of six could perhaps have been the subject of a specific position taken by the european union? why didn't you take that chance? i'd like you to tell us what you think. i must admit that i am very puzzled by europe's discretion in this debate. we have a legitimacy, europe has a legitimacy. let's use it to help us reach an agreement.
mr president, mrs ashton, the events in ashura and the bloody repression of the recent protests in iran have shown that it is totally illusory to draw a very artificial distinction between the internal rigidity of the regime and its inflexible foreign policy, particularly on the iranian nuclear issue. the prospect of additional sanctions therefore seems inevitable, if not desirable. i would have liked to have heard your views on the timing and nature of possible sanctions, so that we can make a proper link between internal events in iran and the nuclear issue.
mr president, mrs ashton, you were right to stress that the important thing in yemen, in terms of security priority, was to put an end to the internal conflicts that exist in that country. we must not confuse cause and effect, and without minimizing the terrorist risk, the primary reason for instability in yemen is not terrorism. terrorism is growing because there is instability due to internal conflicts. in this context, the european union's priority should be to encourage and support the efforts currently being made to establish a national dialogue in yemen with president saleh. at the regional level, there is - and this has just been very aptly recalled - interactions with the somali crisis and the crisis in the horn of africa. there are very large migratory flows, but also arms trafficking and movements of jihadist fighters between yemen and somalia. i wanted to know, in this context, where the union stood in terms of strengthening maritime surveillance capabilities, which also concern yemen.
madam president, madam high representative, we do not share your optimism about the situation in iraq or the benefits of the coalition, because it borders on blindness. iraq was invaded and occupied on the basis of knowingly false information about the presence of weapons of mass destruction. as a result, 17 of the 27 eu countries were dragged into the attack and occupation of iraq. the land is laid waste, its heritage plundered, its people deeply divided. religious fanaticism is recruiting a large number of fighters. the iranian tyranny is freely intervening. elections are conducted in a pathetic and unfair manner. what do you intend, and what do we intend, to do to hold to account those countries that lied and may lie again tomorrow about yemen or any other nation? what steps are we going to take to condemn the use by the occupiers of unconventional chemical and radiological weapons and depleted uranium bombs, the consequences of which are known to future generations? how can we be sure that these weapons will not be used in afghanistan because we have turned a blind eye to the situation in iraq?
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the cotonou agreement gives us an opportunity to learn from the crises we are facing: the economic and financial crisis, the social and food crisis, climate change and the energy challenge, the persistence of extreme poverty. the dominant "any market" economic model and our lifestyles have not only shown their limits, they have caused these unprecedented multidimensional crises. we must therefore radically rethink all our policies. the report submitted to you today, which was adopted unanimously by the members of the committee on development, seems to me to be a first step towards this necessary re-foundation. the first imperative to be respected is consistency. the european union's trade, fisheries and agriculture policies must be designed in a coherent way to ensure sustainable development, combat poverty and guarantee a decent standard of living and income for all. i regret to say that this is not the case today. by making trade an end in itself, rather than a means to its development policy, the european union is sacrificing the people of developing countries to its multinational corporations. the negotiations on economic partnership agreements are rightly controversial among acp governments, trade unions and civil society, who see them as a threat to their economies. the agricultural question is one of the most problematic and remains dramatically neglected in the cooperation between the european union and the acp countries. while rural areas and the sector account for more than 60% of the population and their jobs, their share of eu funds for acp countries is almost non-existent. that has to change. how could we eradicate poverty without making food sovereignty a priority? agriculture must be at the heart of the european union's development policies. helping developing countries, in partnership with local farmers, to secure their food sovereignty is simply essential, especially as the democratic legitimacy of their governments is now threatened by a particularly worrying new phenomenon, the acquisition of arable land by foreign investors following the increase in food prices in 2007. china, saudi arabia and qatar now own thousands of hectares in developing countries. the european union and the acp countries must take up this issue, which is likely to generate violent conflicts and hunger riots, in particular by elevating access to natural resources such as land and water to the status of a fundamental and inalienable right of the local populations. another issue that is close to my heart is that of tax havens. the consequences are far from being unnoticed in developed countries, but are far worse for the economies and political institutions of developing countries. the illicit financial flows they allow would thus represent up to ten times the amount of official development assistance. stopping this bleeding is a matter of consistency and credibility. a first step could be the signing of a binding agreement, requiring multinational companies to automatically declare their profits and taxes in each country where they operate, thus limiting the abuse and losses suffered by developing countries. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize again the democratic deficit of this revision, for which our parliaments were not consulted. the role of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly must be strengthened. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the negotiators will take the opportunity afforded them to make the necessary adjustments to this partnership so that it can be a success, with the people of the acp countries as the first beneficiaries.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to congratulate mrs joly on her work on the report, on the fact that she has also taken account of the contributions of the socialist and democratic group, and although we have tabled amendments again, we recognize ourselves in the resolution she has tabled. for our group, the partnership between the european union and the acp countries is part of a historic commitment which must retain all its specificity and which must not be trivialised, even by the need to bring certain aspects into line, for example with wto rules. we want this partnership to ensure that all the union's policies - trade policy, budgetary policy - are consistent with the development objectives, but also with the promotion of peace, security, democracy and human rights in the acp countries. it is not a question of imposing a model, but of building, with these countries, their development, which must be sustainable development. from this point of view, it is very important that this revision should allow us to take account of the new elements that have emerged in the last five years: the fight against climate change, technology transfers, aid for the development of renewable energy, the fight against food crises, and therefore a greater emphasis in our cooperation on agriculture, food sovereignty, the fight against financial deregulation, good tax governance and the fight against tax havens. we recognize ourselves in all of this. i would like to stress two points. trade: as a result of the implementation of the economic partnership agreements, a number of provisions of the cotonou agreement will be obsolete, but we want to see it stated in the agreement that the trade provisions, the trade regimes enjoyed by the acp countries, must not be less favourable than those they enjoyed before. we believe that the gsp, the interim epas and all these provisions should be included in the revision of the cotonou agreement. finally, on emigration - our colleagues in the group will insist on this - we want it to be said that migration agreements safeguard the rights of migrants and that transit arrangements to countries which do not guarantee respect for human rights are not accepted.
member of the commission. − first of all, with respect to the gsp and gsp+ we have nothing in principle against these being included in the cotonou agreement, but we should realise that gsp and gsp+ are unilateral and cotonou is contractual. i think it is therefore very difficult to put them in the cotonou agreement, but maybe we can find formulas that make the link more intricate. le contrôle démocratique: plusieurs intervenants ont demandé que la pratique consistant à tenir deux réunions plénières annuelles soit maintenue. la commission est prête à reconsidérer son point de vue à cet égard, mais peut-être pourrait-on quand même s'accorder de manière à ce que les réunions régionales coïncident, dans la mesure du possible, avec une des deux réunions plénières, car toutes les réunions du parlement européen associées à celles des autres institutions créent un ensemble très dense, il me semble. je suis donc en principe d'accord avec l'idée d'avoir deux réunions plénières, mais essayons alors de les rapprocher des réunions régionales. plusieurs intervenants ont également parlé de la nature des accords de partenariat économique. c'est le terme sur lequel on s'est mis d'accord, mais en fait il vaudrait mieux parler d'accords de partenariat de développement, et je pense que cela rendrait aussi la discussion avec les pays acp plus facile. je pense que ce serait de nature à rendre un peu plus ouverte la discussion. de toute façon, si le parlement, à un certain moment donné, donne son accord pour une nouvelle commission, dont je suis membre, je ferai tout ce qui est possible, dans le cadre de mes compétences, pour que ces accords soient un succès et pour être présent aux sessions de l'assemblée parlementaire paritaire. il y a eu des questions sur les matières fiscales. je pense que, sur ce point, j'ai déjà répondu dans mon introduction et je crois vraiment qu'il est important que cela devienne un sujet crucial de nos discussions avec les pays acp, mais aussi entre nous, car, soyons sérieux – et je sais que la présidence espagnole est également très intéressée par ce sujet –, si nous voulons vraiment faire quelque chose, il faudra aussi que nous ayons le courage d'intervenir auprès de nos sociétés dans ces pays en voie de développement. donc ce n'est pas seulement là que le problème se pose, ce problème se pose surtout, et je dirais même avant tout, dans la relation entre l'europe et ses propres sociétés et industries dans les pays en voie de développement. c'est une réflexion qui est en cours et j'ai compris que la présidence espagnole prendra également des initiatives à cet égard. la migration. with respect to article 13, both sides want to update migration. on article 13, the commission has put forward a balanced and coherent proposal that builds on the three pillars of cooperation in the areas of migration and development, legal migration and illegal migration and readmission. the aspects put forward by the report are duly taken into account. all areas deserve equal attention. negotiations are ongoing, and we are optimistic about finding an agreement provided the balance between the three pillars is kept. mr cashman made a remark with respect to discrimination. mr cashman is not here at the moment, but i think he is completely right. sexual orientation was part of the elements proposed by the commission and we attach a lot of importance to it, but you should also be aware, as the commission is, that in some acp countries homosexuality is forbidden by law. we recently made representations to the burundian president and also to the ugandan president because they have introduced discriminatory laws, but this is a very touchy subject and i think at a certain moment in time you will have to come to grips with it. either you insist that the text is very clear, and probably we will not get an agreement on it: that is the first possibility; or another possibility is perhaps that we have some language which is less specific. un language is less specific but would also cover sexual orientation. that is something that should be further discussed in the course of the negotiations. i think i have reacted to most of the points, even if it meant that i have spoken for too long.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the entry into force of the cotonou agreements, poverty has not receded. so we failed in our development mission. something has to change with this second revision. i'm pleased to see that there's a fairly broad consensus on the measures that i'm proposing, and i think one of the ways that we have to act to eradicate poverty is to actually fight tax havens, and to use this instrument to do what we can do. we can, within the european union and in the acp region, oblige multinationals to declare, country by country, what they earn and what they pay in taxes. this is also an international demand. but simply, it will be many years before this demand is met at international level. so let us use the possibilities we have in this agreement to establish this rule in our own country. and that is why i ask you not to accept the proposed amendment to paragraph 16, but to keep the original wording which calls us to put our own house in order. in the same vein, what we can also do is to force our own investment bank to act in relation to tax havens. we should prohibit the development fund from investing in companies which do not make a profit in the countries where they operate, but prefer to make a profit in tax havens. this was the case in zambia with very large investments made for the mopani mine, for example - i believe it is in the order of $46 million. it didn't improve the lives of zambians at all, it improved the lives of the shareholders who benefited from this aid. so it's totally counter-performing. this is within our power. we can change the mandate of our bank. so let us do what we can, let us not put anything off until tomorrow. let's go with that plan. secondly, there are principles we must not flout: human rights, the rights of migrants, and i urge you to keep the wording of article 31 that i am proposing, rather than suppressing protests against bilateral agreements, which in reality constitute an outsourcing of migration flows. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic, social, climate and energy sectors are the main priorities of the spanish presidency and will rightly receive the full attention of europe. that is why mr van rompuy's first decision, to convene a european council on the economy and the climate and, of course, now also on the strategy for haiti - you have spoken about it; i believe that europe must show its heart and know-how and that you must intervene to make sure that you are more present at council level in haiti. that is why the debate you have launched, mr zapatero, on a possible european economic government is also welcome, even if, and perhaps because opinions differ at the moment on this subject and this is normal, we should not be afraid, ladies and gentlemen, to speak at european level about politics with a capital p, and we must tell each other the truth. we should not be afraid of the great debates, and i thank you, mr president-in-office, for your contribution to them, because economic and social policy is the great debate, the debate which concerns our citizens the most, the debate to which we must give short, medium and longterm answers. as josé manuel barroso has said, this is the right time to address the question of the economic objectives of the countries of the union. it is indeed a question of survival for europe and its social model. mr. prime minister, the economic difficulties, you know what they are. this is a record unemployment of almost 20% and a public deficit of almost 11% in spain. i have to say, you're in a country where you know problems. i therefore welcome your determination to return to growth and job creation, the alpha and omega of your presidency. but to be honest, mr prime minister - i said we must tell ourselves the truth - i am not sure that the solutions that you and the political family to which you belong propose to get out of the crisis and to make social europe a reality are the most appropriate. the epp believes that the way out of the crisis and the creation of jobs cannot be achieved by increasing public spending but by creating an economic, fiscal and ecological environment favourable to enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. i am thinking particularly of small and mediumsized enterprises in terms of employment in our countries and regions. social cohesion - which has been severely tested by the crisis and the scandals of bonuses and bonuses for the incompetence of certain managers - cannot be built on craftsmanship but on sustainable growth that benefits the greatest number. in conclusion, i would like to address the council, whether it is the rotating or the permanent presidency, to tell you solemnly that with the lisbon treaty, times have changed, the council and parliament must now work in close cooperation and on an equal footing. this new relationship obviously requires legal norms - and here i trust our lawyers to apply the new treaty zealously - but it must also require mutual political trust, symbolic gestures. in this connection, i would like to reiterate my wish that the presidency of the council would regularly engage in spontaneous questions and answers with the members of the european parliament, as the president of the commission, mr barroso, has been doing for some months now, and as you yourself are doing this morning, mr zapatero. you have six months to implement this principle. i therefore wish the president-in-office of the council the best for the next six months and that we will succeed together in moving europe forward during those six months. that's all the evil i wish for you.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president, first i would like to refer to your remarks on haiti. i remember that in 2006 a european commissioner named michel barnier proposed the creation of a european social protection force, to be called europeaid. it was in mr barroso's commission. if we had europeaid today, europeans would already be more present in haiti. mr president, take up the proposal by michel barnier. you see, i'm not a cultist. i would now like to return to what you have developed for the future of europe. i would like to continue with another approach developed by guy verhofstadt. you say growth, but what growth? what kind of growth? because one of the reasons for the crises, the ecological crisis - because we don't have a crisis, but crises - is a growth in production that has been destructive at the same time. so if we do not discuss at european level the quality, the content of growth, we will be making the same mistakes as yesterday. that's a thought. the second point to be considered is what you have said about growth and a pact, for example, against energy dependence. one of the pillars of the fight against energy dependence is energy saving. we must develop a grand pact in europe, a european investment in energy savings. housing is about saving energy, it's about investing billions, and it's about creating jobs at the same time. so, remember, renewable, yes, but renewable with energy savings. and here i am asking the european union to decide now not 20 per cent but 30 per cent energy savings by 2020. we can do it, if we want. secondly, you mentioned the electric car. that's good! but there's something else. mobility is not just about the car. there is a great project that can be developed in europe. you had the airbus, you have the tgv. why don't you make a big european project of trams? throughout europe there is a need for renovation, for modernization of trams, in central europe, in the south, in latin america, everywhere. it's a job site and part of the auto industry that you can't save. you'll be able to give it another function of mobility. a european tramway project is also a solution to the climate problems associated with traffic. on the other hand, you have spoken, and that is good, about teaching and the bologna process. i'll take it! but the problem with the bologna process is that it was diverted from its primary purpose. instead of making higher education in europe equal, it has been made a school, universities have been made places where research and reflection are no longer required, but simply places where education is provided. we've created curricula that students today can't follow. so if you want to continue the bologna process, you have to first go back and question all the curricula that are linked to the bologna process and the answer to that, you see it in the streets of university cities all over europe, where students protest not against an idea of european education, but against a degradation of higher education in the name of a supposedly european idea. i would like to conclude on your european social pact. a european social pact and a social and ecological pact. put the companies, put the unions, put the big environmental groups around a table. social protection will only work with environmental protection. this is the new thing, and by the way, gentlemen of the right, it was one of mr sarkozy's good ideas in france, it was called the grenelle of the environment. i think it is time to make an environmental brussels where we bring all the social partners and the main representatives of environmental organizations around a table. if you are going in this direction, we agree and europe is the solution and the instruments, we must develop them together.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, in this period of crisis, trade policy is increasingly a part of the public debate, because it is becoming increasingly clear to europeans that the trade strategy implemented at union level has a direct impact on growth and employment. in a context of intensified international competition, the race to reduce costs has led to too many job losses or relocations. in the face of this, our group believes that trade should be a tool for achieving objectives such as job creation, reducing inequalities and sustainable development. the appointed trade commissioner, karel de gucht, at his hearing, seemed to agree that trade could not be an end in itself. i would therefore like to know whether, during your presidency, you will support a reform of european trade policy to make it more job-creating and more linked to a genuine industrial policy? will you also take action to promote fair trade worldwide, which promotes development, decent work and respect for human rights, i.e. to introduce binding social and environmental standards into our agreements?
mr president, mr prime minister, first of all i would like to thank mr zapatero for bringing back the ambition, the political perspective and also the energy, at a time when the european union is having to bounce back from the crisis and after the failure of copenhagen. i expect the commission and the presidency to put the creation of more and better jobs, the fight against social exclusion and sustainable development at the heart of the 2020 strategy. this is particularly true of the agricultural budget, but it is also true of the fisheries budget. you've committed to it. mr president, we are counting on you to provide the means for this policy, to combine soil clearance and food security, to enable green jobs and the conservation of fisheries resources, to ensure food security and to create fairer trading conditions for the countries of the south. we need an ambitious agricultural budget, and i ask you to include the fisheries budget in it. on these points, our jobs, but also our politics, will be judged by the results.
in writing. i appreciated the speech of the prime minister of the kingdom of spain and, in particular, the balance between the economic, social and environmental aspects. i support the idea of a social pact that would rely on the social partners because, in addition to being a condition for achieving a great social ambition, i am convinced that it is an element of european economic performance. at a time when the iberian peninsula is holding two important presidencies (the council of the european union with the spanish prime minister josé luis rodriguez zapatero and the european commission with the portuguese josé manuel barroso), i regret that the spanish presidency has not demonstrated its ability to bring political added value to relations with the american continent outside the usa and canada. this is regrettable because the sixth eu-latin america and caribbean (eu-lac) summit is due to take place in the first half of 2010 and the eu-mexico and eu-brazil summits will be held in the first and second halves of 2010 respectively. i take this opportunity to express my regret once again that the new president of the european council, elected in mid-november with effect from 1 december 2009, has not always come to greet the european parliamentarians without even sending them a simple message.
in writing. mr president, you are now holding the rotating presidency of the european union for six months. you have many foreign policy challenges ahead of you, particularly with the southern shore of the mediterranean. what are your plans for relaunching the union for the mediterranean, which has its seat in barcelona? the secretary-general of the union for the mediterranean has just been appointed. how do you see your collaboration with this first secretary-general of the union for the mediterranean? we need an ambitious mediterranean policy, which goes beyond economic partnerships to make way for real political partnerships.
in writing. i voted the resolution on the proposal for a council regulation temporarily suspending the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of certain industrial products into the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores on the basis of the report by my excellent polish colleague danuta maria hübner. the regional authorities of madeira and the azores, in agreement with the government of their member state, portugal, have requested the temporary suspension of common customs tariff duties in order to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and to stabilise employment in these outermost regions of the union. i am fully in favour of the union supporting the special features of the outermost territories, provided that these tolerances do not feed speculation and are diverted from their purpose.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my french colleague eva joly on the second revision of the acp-ec partnership agreement (the 'cotonou agreement'). i share the report's views on the need to adapt the use of this privileged instrument with the acp countries in the light of the current crises such as climate change, soaring food and fuel prices, the financial crisis, and the extreme poverty of africa. the acp countries are partners of the european union and we must pay close attention to this partnership in the hope of having allies in the major negotiations on global governance that are about to begin.
in writing. the report certainly contains some very interesting suggestions and often praiseworthy intentions. the priority given to renewable energy, the obligation for multinational companies operating in acp countries to declare profits and taxes, the integration of the concept of food sovereignty and the criticism of the outsourcing of the management of migration flows by europe are all proposals that we support. but we do not lose sight of the fact that this report does not in any way refer back to the cotonou agreement. this agreement is a symbol of the european union's total alignment with the ultra-liberal logic of the wto. we are not mistaken: the 'development' invoked is a disguise for the commercial motives which led to the dismantling of the lomé agreements. we denounce the setting up of the epas provided for in this agreement, the blackmailing of development aid by the commission in order to conclude them, and the resulting plundering of the economies of the acp states. we are voting against this text because we do not want the european union to abandon its only instrument of economic cooperation, which is not governed by the obsession with free and undistorted competition, and to capitulate to the us injunctions in the wto.
in writing. i abstained on the report by eva joly on the second revision of the acp-eu partnership agreement. this report contains many concrete proposals for renegotiating this agreement, better known as the cotonou agreement, which i share. this is the case with the need to take into account the situation of the world's poorest countries, in view of their specificities with regard to climate change, democracy and human rights, the flight of their elites, corruption, and the specificities of their economies, especially in agricultural matters. however, the epp amendments adopted in plenary distort the report. this is particularly the case with amendment no 3, which denies the right of peoples to define their own agrarian policy.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here today to share with you my impressions of the outcome of the copenhagen summit and the challenges it poses both for the european union and for the spanish rotating presidency in the first half of 2010. the european union's environment ministers reflected on these issues last weekend and i must say that there is broad agreement on the will to make further progress, particularly on three issues: building on the outcome of the summit, with a view to making it operational as soon as possible; strengthening its elements within the united nations; working towards our global emission reduction targets. we share goals and strategy. our immediate tasks will therefore be to complete the process of formal communication of our commitment, to consolidate a framework for action comparable to that of other industrialized and emerging countries, and to make use of all the tools at our disposal, both internally and in our relations with third countries. the december summit, which was extremely complex and marked by arduous procedural discussions, ended up focusing on the so-called 'copenhagen agreement'. the document adopted has the personal involvement of a large number of heads of state and government and leaders of regional groups, representing the will of countries whose emissions account for more than 80% of those produced on a global scale. its participants include all industrialised countries, the major emerging economies and a significant number of particularly vulnerable countries. and it should help us to answer the many questions that still hang over the formal process that should lead us to legally binding solutions, within the united nations, preferably in mexico. as regards the content of the agreement, i think it is important to stress the express support for a temperature increase of no more than 2 degrees celsius. this is probably one of the strongest and most responsive elements: the commitment of all industrialized countries to set a reduction target applicable to their entire economy. the emerging economies, on the other hand, will take concrete and verifiable actions to substantially reduce their emissions growth: the solidarity financing, aimed at supporting immediate and medium-term actions in the fight against climate change, the elements aimed at guiding new governance schemes, as well as mechanisms that support technological development and the reduction of emissions due to deforestation. the copenhagen summit has highlighted the new international scenario in which we are moving, a scenario in which improvements are necessary if we are to provide answers to global problems. the rules for decision-making need to change to adapt effectively to new times and needs. we have the necessary tools to act: a legislative package already in place at community level, a commitment at the highest level to deepening emission reductions, international solidarity and technological innovation and cooperation, the appropriate internal institutional structure, which we must use wisely, making the most of all its complementarities. we will need to combine the environment council's leadership in negotiating and designing climate change policies with enhanced external action capabilities. we must also link the environmental task with our authorities' reflections on economic and innovation policy, and strengthen the coherence of our climate objectives with our model of development and well-being. all this without losing sight of the need to consolidate, within and beyond our borders, the role of public opinion and of legislators committed to the need to invest in a better future and to protect the collective interest. let us bring our european experience to bear. first, we must have an adequate response by 31 january. the copenhagen agreement, by including all those who must reduce emissions, is making progress in the area of comparability of efforts, comparability demanded by the european union, but we still do not know the extent of the commitments of the others. if that is not enough, we must continue to work to deepen collective reduction. we will also have to create the conditions for the rapid implementation of the elements of the agreement. it is essential that the european union and its member states take the lead in keeping their word. we must therefore make the transfer of resources, which was committed for the period 2010-12, as soon as possible. we want to develop a financial architecture capable of underpinning our solidarity commitments with third countries in the green climate action fund in copenhagen and, alongside that, drive forward the progress on accounting rules, the response to reducing emissions from deforestation and on technological cooperation. in addition, we must have our own policies to meet our national and community emission reduction targets, promote innovation and the intelligent use of energy, integrate adaptation measures into sectoral policies and ensure the consistency of our external action. in all this we want to work closely with the commission and parliament, with the aim of building the world's most advanced region in the fight against climate change and the least carbon intensive, the best prepared to face the challenges posed by climate change and the most effective in making it a powerful driver of innovation and competitiveness. the policy of combating climate change is one of the main hallmarks of the european model. we have been pioneers in integrating this principle into our proposals for fairer and more sustainable development, not only economically but also socially and environmentally, knowing that in this way we are strengthening international security. this has allowed major players such as china and the united states of america to sit at the same negotiating table and identify and share key elements of cooperation. the european union, as a strong supporter of the role of the united nations in solving global issues, will also have to work in other contexts, bilateral or multilateral, formal or informal, helping to better understand the opportunities, listening to our partners, collaborating in the consolidation of sectoral responses, consistent with the needs of climate change. the adoption of the lisbon treaty and the entry into operation of the new institutions must be fully exploited, systematically incorporating the main messages of the fight against climate change into our relations with third countries. we have a lot of work ahead of us. the spanish government, aware of the scale of the challenge, wishes to express here its commitment to making the most of the elements which will enable an ambitious and binding agreement to be reached in mexico. we cannot waste the political momentum created in copenhagen, nor allow our aspirations, nor those of the international community, to deteriorate. our credibility is at stake. we must hold firmly to our position. the new and increased powers of the european parliament, which bring it even closer to the citizens, will enable us to cooperate more intensively and more fruitfully. i would like to conclude by congratulating them on this and reminding them that we need their work and support more than ever in these crucial six months ahead.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me thank you on behalf of the commission for the chance to discuss the outcome of the copenhagen conference on climate change and the follow-up to the copenhagen accord. my colleague, stavros dimas, has asked me to apologise on his behalf for not being able to be here himself because he is ill, which is particularly regrettable as this would probably have been his last plenary appearance. i volunteered to substitute for stavros in this very important debate. i want to express our appreciation for the active and supportive role the european parliament played before the conference and at the conference itself. the contacts with your delegation throughout the conference proved most useful. in particular, you have played a crucial role in order to enhance our outreach with key players in other countries and other regions. i believe we share the view that the result of copenhagen falls badly short of our goal of an ambitious and legally binding agreement, which would be necessary to limit climate change to below 2°c. this is extremely disappointing for all of us who have fought for years and years for concrete policy decisions to reverse climate change. the reasons for the failure were many and i will come back to them in a moment. still, one may also conclude that the accord is better than no outcome at all, which would have been the worst-case scenario. on the one hand – to find something positive – the copenhagen accord at least recognises the need to limit climate change to below 2°c. it also invites the developed countries to list economy-wide emission targets by 31 january 2010 and calls for the developing countries to list mitigation actions by the same date. furthermore, the accord sets the basis for a rather substantial financial package of usd 30 billion for the coming three years and recognises the need for usd 100 billion annually by 2020. on the other hand, the accord has serious weaknesses. it contains no reference to mid-term or long-term mitigation targets. the reduction pledges announced so far are not sufficient to stay within the target of 2°c. there is unfortunately, in my view, little cause for optimism that we will see improved offers by 31 january – rather the opposite. last, but certainly not least, the accord is not legally binding and, perhaps even more worrying, it does not provide for the conclusion of a legally binding agreement this year, which was one of our key goals. looking ahead, the next step will be to ensure that this accord will at least become operational and will pave the way for a new climate treaty, which must be agreed on urgently in the course of this year. as a very first step, it will be crucial to ensure that all key parties now endorse the accord and notify their targets or actions by 31 january. adequate financing also needs to be provided. in this respect, we need to explore ways of setting up a copenhagen green climate fund. we must also strengthen alliances with countries and regions who share our vision of a successful outcome in the international climate negotiations. to conclude, we have huge challenges before us to ensure unity at the european level, to engage strategically with key external partners and to maintain our full commitment to multilateral climate action, but there are many lessons to be learned from cop15. one striking lesson certainly is that we must learn to speak with one voice. in copenhagen, china, india, the united states and other major powers each spoke with one voice, while europe spoke with many different voices. the same goes for global economic governance and international security. we are indeed at a crossroads today. either we take determined and united action for europe’s ecological, economic and political revival, or we risk economic stagnation and political irrelevance. let us take copenhagen as an alarming warning of that scenario. we must do better than that and we can do. only by standing united can we succeed, and i look forward to working with you to achieve this objective.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the reasons which led 192 heads of state and government to go to copenhagen are still there and the failure of copenhagen must obviously not be a reason to reduce our ambitions. but we certainly need a change of strategy, we need a new strategy. this strategy must be firm, it must be dynamic and it must be innovative. it must be firm, first of all, because it is imperative that we not only maintain our targets, but increase them and go as far as 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. we must accelerate our industrial transition to a green economy, focused on energy efficiency, clean and sober processes, renewable energy, new syntheses between information technology and environmental technologies, because the battle that started in copenhagen is also that of industry and industry leadership in the 21st century. we must have a dynamic strategy, without in any way delegitimising the un process. we must take initiatives with the united states and china so that we can put in place what can serve as the basis for an agreement on mexico. we must not let the g2 as we have seen it function become established but we must be part of this process and this will only be possible if we speak with one voice. we have to be innovative, innovative in carbon markets by imposing a floor price, innovative in financing modalities. without my group being involved, i personally think that the question of a border carbon tax should be raised. and then we have to restore confidence in africa by enriching the fund without reusing public aid funds by baptizing them as "carbon" funds. in the end, we have to make a considerable effort so that we can maintain this will that we have to be the world's leaders on climate change.
mr president, madam minister, i was very surprised by your complacency about the european union's climate action. europe has certainly done more and better in the last ten years than most countries in the world, but european leadership clearly failed in copenhagen. we have seen in copenhagen that europe has become nothing more than the sum of the personal communication strategies of the european heads of state and government, and i want to mention specifically mr sarkozy, mrs merkel and mr gordon brown. in these circumstances, it is obviously easy to abuse the un process. it is true that the un is complicated, and a g20 where the agreements say nothing, but where we make great podium effects, it is much simpler. so in the coming year europe must do more and better. today we are approaching a target of 20%. but 20 percent is simply doing less in the next 10 years than we have done in the last 10 years, it's reducing europe's climate effort. it's not just absurd for the climate, when scientists tell us we need to get to 40 percent, but it's absurd for our economy, it's absurd for our jobs. so, madam minister, please do not reduce european climate ambition to the lowest common denominator, to the speeches of president barroso, who does not want to move from the 20%, or to the speeches of italy and poland who will soon deny the reality of climate change. read the european parliament's resolution again and opt for 30% unconditional immediately.
mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, while copenhagen was a failure, the mobilisation of non-state actors has been exceptional and has brought about a genuine global solidarity for climate justice. it is now clear that the interests of the small and vulnerable island states and of africa must be given priority in the negotiation process that will follow. it will also be necessary to ensure that the 100 billion announced in copenhagen actually adds to the commitments made in the field of official development aid. finally, we must recognize that we have very little time left to act before the consequences of climate change become irreversible. 2010 will be the last chance if we want to guarantee a real success in mexico city.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, it has not escaped anyone that copenhagen was a missed appointment. nevertheless, and i quote you, commissioner, this summit has had two virtues. the first is that it has mobilized far more heads of state and government than the kyoto protocol. secondly, it has made it possible to obtain financial commitments for emerging countries to help them precisely to combat global warming. so what should europe do today? we can, and we should, continue to excel in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, because, to be honest, europe has already been extremely virtuous. compared with the kyoto target of 8% reduction, we are only a short way from 13% for european companies. they have therefore shown themselves to be extremely virtuous and very committed to environmental protection. but this struggle and this virtuous attitude must not be part of an unfair competition. as i said to you, mr rehn, at the hearings, all this must be done in a context of totally fair competition. the question of the introduction of a carbon tax at the european union's borders will have to be asked, because we cannot abandon our companies and therefore our jobs, in a context of totally unfair competition, to countries which do not respect nor have the same standards in terms of environmental protection and the reduction of greenhouse gases. i therefore consider it absolutely necessary - and i agree with my colleague corinne lepage - to raise the question of the implementation of a carbon tax at the european union's borders at some point. secondly, i was quite pleased at the hearings that commissioner tajani did not rule out the possibility of an impact study on the possible possibility of imposing this carbon tax at the borders of the european union. so little by little, i think that this fight will be won because it is important to protect our european businesses and jobs.
mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the issue of climate change is beyond dispute. its short, medium and long-term impacts are undeniable, even if today the jesc results are the headline of a certain national newspaper and certainly reinforce the positions of the sceptics. the copenhagen conference has emerged in the eyes of the world as a unique opportunity for world leaders to witness, act and correct the effects of this process of climate change. the european union was at the forefront of this forum, not only because of our bold legislation on limiting the impact of our activities on the climate, but also because europe represents a union of countries that can really make a difference. the outcome of the copenhagen conference can only leave a taste of dissatisfaction, but i refuse to speak of failure. the world has agreed on the issue of limiting the temperature increase to two degrees, even for one of the most reluctant countries like china. brazil has just passed a law that aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 39% by 2020, in line with its commitments. many others have also shown high ambitions in terms of greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. i am thinking of japan and norway. in addition, it is also worth noting the very positive point that the consensus reached on the urgency of a mechanism to reduce emissions from deforestation. a specific and unanimous text was obtained on the implementation of the mechanism called redd+ to reduce deforestation and thus allow the natural storage of co2. far from being a binding agreement, but clearly in line with a political agreement, the outcome of copenhagen should lead us to ask ourselves why we are so disappointed. i went to the copenhagen conference, as did many of my colleagues, with the desire to participate, to help, to see a europe that negotiates, a europe that leads. i was very disappointed because europe clearly did not have the place it deserved in the negotiations, especially as far as the european parliament is concerned. to win, europe must be stronger on this issue. the meeting of our environment ministers in seville has not been successful, and our leaders have shown themselves to be uncertain, hesitant, and we remain divided on our objectives. i hope that mrs hedegaard, with her proposals and commitments to the committee on the environment, will be able to raise the level of ambition of the european union.
mr president, the negotiations have highlighted the failure of the union's strategy of drawing others into its wake by being the most virtuous. there was, in fact, a gap between the rhetoric about a european union wanting to be the world leader in the fight against climate change and europe's leadership in the final negotiations. not only did no one follow, but putting all his cards on the table way too far up front was sure to fail. in fact, the european union was virtually unheard of during the last negotiations. so, what do we do today? the principle of reciprocity must be applied in particular in our trade with third countries. europe can no longer accept a situation where certain imported products do not comply with environmental constraints. the situation created by the failure of copenhagen therefore creates uncertainty about the future international rules of operation in terms of reducing carbon emissions, which is particularly damaging for our companies which have to face large investments. this lack of visibility is likely to have a negative impact on the co2 market, which requires a clear and stable framework to grow and operate properly. at the same time, the us and china are investing heavily in green technologies to create the green jobs of tomorrow. europe must not miss the innovation train. it must support a genuine european industrial policy because that is the real challenge in the fight against climate change. these new clean technologies exist and it is up to us to accelerate their use in our policies for the benefit of all, especially developing countries. this is the challenge for the european union. it has the means to bring about this revolution, but let us be more pragmatic as we approach the next deadlines so that we can turn the agreement reached in copenhagen into something legally binding within a year in mexico city.
mr president, madam minister, vaclav havel told us on 11 november last that 'europe is the homeland of our homelands'. but after copenhagen our european compatriots are very strict. there is a real loss of trust, and so, in the face of this crisis of trust and to allow that trust to return, i would like to ask you a two-point question. the first question is: during the six months of your presidency, will you bring back to the negotiating table the introduction of a tobin-style carbon tax on financial transactions? it seems to me that this tax would restore that trust not only to our countrymen but also to all those who have lost it all over the world. and then, secondly, do you want to put back on the table a more binding list of carbon quotas, of carbon leakage?
acting president of the council. - the problem of ensuring that firms have sufficient access to capital, and the actions of the member states to this end, has been a matter of concern to the council for some time, as you know. in january last year the council noted that the states had taken strong and decisive action to unlock, among other things, the credit markets. in the spring, the european council already stated the importance of continuing to implement economic recovery measures and asked the commission and the council to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken and to report to the june european council. the june european council did indeed assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the member states to support the financial sector and the situation with regard to the stability and functioning of the financial markets. these results were transmitted, by means of a report, to the european council itself. the council, therefore, the council of ministers, the european council, and in this report a positive message was conveyed, pointing out that there had been guarantees and recapitalisation mechanisms from the member states and that the member states had therefore played a crucial role in stopping the downward spiral. i even remember that, at the end of 2008, there was a certain danger of the collapse of the financial system itself. there had therefore been positive repercussions for banks to access global financing, thus supporting the flow of credit to the real economy. and the council felt that the measures taken by the states had indeed been important in keeping the credit channels open. the banking sector is still under pressure in this area and the council has therefore asked the member states to recapitalize or balance their balance sheets individually in order to reduce uncertainty and facilitate the granting of credit. the council noted last december that the member states had implemented a wide range of support measures aimed at restoring financial stability, but it also stressed that the recovery was still somewhat fragile and called on the committee of european banking supervisors to provide regular information on the amount of capital available for additional credit. we are therefore faced with a series of measures, monitoring measures, which have been taken by the council, on the one hand, and with the guidance of the european council, which have therefore led to an improvement, linked, of course, to the action of the european central bank, which is logical, for bank liquidity first and access to loans by companies.
acting president of the council. - what i have to say to you is that, from the point of view of the council, from the point of view of the european institutions, i think that things are going very well. that it has acted well and that it has contributed greatly to preventing a collapse in the liquidity of the whole economy. the ecofin has been monitoring and continues to monitor the measures taken by the member states. he's doing it systematically. for example, ecofin is currently looking at the development of bank guarantees, whether or not there are certain restrictions on companies in the financial sector and how credit financing is being carried out by the european central bank. i would simply like to say, as a quote from authority, that on 7 december 2009, the president of the european central bank, mr trichet, said that there is no restriction on the supply so that banks can borrow money from the european central bank. there are no restrictions on supply. if banks do not attend, it is a matter for each of these financial institutions, but there is no restriction on this from the european union or the european central bank. in any case, the council, together with the european parliament, is naturally very much prepared to examine the directives which are already here to be discussed in connection with financial supervision systems or any other initiative which the commission may take in this direction.
madam president, one of the priorities of the presidency of the council is to strengthen the european union's influence on the international scene, particularly in latin america. but what influence are we talking about? the current conception of international relations leaves little room for democracy and human rights. would the council be willing to support, through free trade agreements, regimes which are constantly violating human rights in latin america? i would like to take peru as an example, where the abuses in bagua are a terrible illustration of the way in which the state collaborates with multinational companies by confiscating land from the indigenous population for economic purposes. already nearly 70% of the territory is in the hands of multinational corporations and mining companies. another well-known example is colombia, the most dangerous country for a trade unionist, with hundreds of murders. my question is this: are you going to put the question of human rights back at the heart of the union's foreign policy in latin america?
thank you, minister, for your answer. i congratulate you on the initiative of this conference in march in palma de mallorca, which will follow on from the one held in stockholm. the problem is that we are dealing with multinational companies; as you said, europe must be a leader in corporate social responsibility, but it must also be a leader in the behaviour of european companies elsewhere in the world. that's the problem with subsidiaries of these companies being separate legal entities. are you prepared to consider a legal instrument which would make it possible to hold parent companies accountable for the behaviour of their subsidiaries in other countries of the world when they violate their obligations in terms of the environment, respect for human rights, respect for workers' rights? because otherwise, the corporate social responsibility that europe wants to promote, european companies will escape it through the behaviour of their subsidiaries elsewhere in the world.
acting president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to address this house on a matter of extraordinary importance for the european union, namely relations with turkey, and more specifically, that seems to be the main objective of this debate, in relation to the democratization of turkey. this is a matter which is directly related to the union, not only indirectly but also directly, given that turkey is a candidate country. it has been a candidate country negotiating accession to the european union for some years now and, as is well known, one of the political requirements of copenhagen is that a country wishing to join the union must have stable political institutions and guarantee democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for minorities. so turkey has to meet these requirements. there are several chapters open to possible negotiation. some are open, others are not yet open, others are blocked in that negotiation and turkey is objectively of great strategic importance to the union. firstly, because it is a country with a european perspective and, secondly, because it is a large country with an increasing strategic importance from the point of view of energy supply and it is also a country of undoubted economic and, of course, political importance. turkey is a member of nato and therefore, in this respect, for some of the countries of the european union, turkey is also a partner in the military alliance. turkey has experienced positive changes. the european perspective has given turkey a special incentive to move in a positive direction towards democratic changes and deepening of democracy. even the current turkish government has launched what it has called the 'democratic initiative' and which responds to the need for a series of institutional changes in that direction of democratization of the turkish political system. in relation to the european union, his interest has been shown even within the government, by appointing a minister, minister bağış, with whom i have had the opportunity to speak many times, specifically in charge of the negotiation with the european union, that is the name of his portfolio. we have therefore seen that on the one hand there are reforms being launched in turkey, undoubtedly encouraged by this european perspective, but on the other hand there are still clear shortcomings in the specific area in which this debate is to be focused, namely the area of democracy and respect for fundamental freedoms. we continue to consider that the level of protection and guarantee of some of these freedoms, such as freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, trade union rights, the rights of persons belonging to minorities, the rights of women and children, the fight against discrimination and equality between men and women, is insufficient. this has led turkey to propose, and is in the process of proposing, a series of constitutional reforms without which it would be difficult to make progress in some of these areas. so, as the framework for negotiations with turkey states, the european union wants to see progress along these lines and, moreover, it addresses turkey when necessary and when it considers that some type of measure is not going in that direction or may make that direction more difficult. this was the case following the decision taken by the turkish constitutional court on 11 december to dissolve the dtp (democratic society party) and to ban a number of its democratically elected representatives from engaging in any political activity. the presidency of the council of the union at that time expressed its concern at the decision taken by the court and therefore there was clearly a very clear voice of the european union, expressing its concern at that decision and also calling for the necessary reforms in turkish legislation to bring the regulation on political parties into line with certain recommendations made by the so-called venice commission of the council of europe and with the relevant provisions of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is, of course, signed and ratified by the turkish state and subject to the jurisdiction, in this case, of the court of strasbourg. so i'm finished, madam president. the presidency of the council of the union will continue to attach great importance to this matter. all aspects of the reform process currently under way in turkey will be closely monitored and, in any case, within a framework which we consider to be positive, which is a framework for negotiation and association for accession. we believe that this is a strategic framework which we must follow and the intention of the spanish presidency of the council is that new chapters of negotiation should continue to be opened, as was the case last year with turkey, and that we should therefore be able to deepen these negotiations.
member of the commission. − madam president, i welcome this very important debate on turkish democratisation. i remind us all that the turkish eu accession process remains of strategic importance for the european union. democratic reforms and the democratic transformation of turkey reinforce stability and security in turkey and in the wider neighbourhood of the eu and turkey. progress in turkey inspires reformers and acts as a catalyst for democracy and human rights in the whole region. of course, progress is not always straightforward, with positive developments. we also see developments that give reason for concern, and when this is the case we raise these issues in a very serious manner with the turkish authorities and we use those instruments that we have, thanks to the conditionality of the eu accession perspective. when a society like turkey experiences fundamental political changes, it is rarely the case that there is always full clarity or a direction amidst of events. the democratic opening of turkey in relation to the kurdish population is an example of such a development. in the summer of 2009 the turkish government launched this democratic opening aimed at raising democratic and living standards for all turkish citizens. this important initiative addresses the kurdish issue through dialogue and within the framework of turkish democratic institutions. a number of landmark reforms have been carried out to date. some of these were next to impossible only a few years ago: think of the kurdish-language tv programmes, which are now broadcast by private and public broadcasters. they are a telling example of such welcome changes and transformation. but the recent setbacks in the democratic opening are, indeed, reason for serious concern. we regret the decision of the constitutional court of turkey in december to close the democratic society party (dtp). following the closure of the dtp, several party members – including elected mayors – were arrested in the context of an anti-terror investigation. simultaneously, pkk terrorist attacks continue unabated in the south east and put the lives of turkish soldiers at risk. the tense political climate has also been fuelled by celebrations in the wake of the return of pkk members and sympathisers from northern iraq. nationalist circles in turkey have seized this opportunity to attack the government on its policies and on the democratic opening itself. following this backlash against the democratic opening, i welcome last week’s announcement by the turkish government to carry the democratic opening further. the democratic transformation of turkey is a forceful testimony of the continued soft power of the ec accession perspective when used fairly and firmly and with vigour and consistency. it is not an easy process but one in which the journey is at least as important as the destination. let us keep it alive and make it work for the joint benefit of the eu and turkey.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner rehn, thank you for being with us at this late hour to discuss the democratization of turkey, a subject on which you have worked a lot, and i thank you for that. i think that when the government announced its democratic initiative, its democratic opening, there were many of us who took the measure of that audacity and, at the same time, considered that this broad ambition represented a long road which would probably be fraught with obstacles; the ambushes came pretty fast. the first act, as you said, is the dissolution of the dtp, and i note that alongside the ban on the dtp, the ban on political activity, which affects several elected members of its party, also eliminates the heads who were most involved in the democratic and political dialogue to solve the kurdish question. this is a question mark that casts doubt on the decision. and then there is also this wave of arrests which is now really decapitating political leaders, and therefore also the interlocutors, in the kurdish question. the kurdish question is central to the democratization process in turkey. first, it is heavy, because it represents many years of suffering, violence, strife, wars, which have left tragic traces to this day. the european union is a global player in the field of education and training. and this kurdish question is weighing heavily on the democratization process. it weighs on freedom of expression, it weighs on freedom of the press, it weighs on the rights of citizens, it weighs on the fight against torture. and when i see the use made today of the anti-terrorism law to cover up political reprisals, i say that we really must support this government and wait for it to take a new, extremely ambitious initiative to get out of this situation from above, because as we know, not all the groups constituted in turkey have an interest, not all of them, in the democratic settlement of the kurdish question. we know this, we've known this from the beginning. so today turkey needs our support, our unwavering support in this process of democratization. my colleague sophie in't veld is right when she says that this unwavering support must be expressed by renewing this pledge of membership at the end of the democratization process; it's absolutely essential to say it. and then, this government must finally bring about reforms, which will necessarily lead to a draft of a new constitution. the immediate reforms concern the law on political parties, of course. they also concern the electoral law - this is absolutely urgent - and the independence of the judiciary. these fundamental pillars of the democratic state in turkey must be advanced in a courageous and determined way by the turkish government today. and then, also, this government must take initiatives to promote consensus and reconciliation, because the polarization of society and political forces in turkey is absolutely harmful to the search for the necessary consensus to adopt a new constitution that we all hope for.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am impressed by the speeches i have just heard, from the commissioner to my colleagues. i think we really have a job to do to get a fair and objective assessment of the current situation in tunisia. when i listen to you, frankly, i have the impression that i am hearing western intellectuals talk happily, several decades ago, of economic and social success in the countries of the ussr, with a total inability to go and see what our common values are there. what are our common values, mr. michel? these are human rights, democracy and the rule of law. you all rightly said that tunisia was our oldest partner in the association agreement; and it is true. and that is why all this is very worrying, because it is not about shortcomings, commissioner, or small steps, step by step. no, i'm not going. there is a massive and continuing deterioration of human rights and democracy in tunisia. can you name one newspaper that has been licensed for 20 years, one party that has been licensed for 20 years, one union that has been licensed for 20 years? no, i'm not going. the truth is that fundamental freedoms are being systematically violated and with them our own commitments. it is not a question of moral lectures, but of upholding the values of the european union and the commitments we have made by signing this association agreement. i therefore call for at least a shared analysis. i think that a lot of work has been done to get a debate, but it would certainly be more useful to work on setting up a real delegation, which would actually meet with civil society in tunisia and the various components of civil society, to take stock of the continuing harassment of human rights defenders, students, trade unionists, workers, lawyers. coup attempts were organized in almost all associations which had a certain degree of autonomy from the authorities. so i think you're in the middle of a delusion. i can understand from your speeches why you do not want to see the reality of tunisia. you don't want to see the reality of tunisia, because you think there are economic interests, because you think there are interests in fighting terrorism, because you think there are interests in fighting illegal immigration at stake. you have said all this very clearly and you echo the progress made by mrs bourguiba on equality between men and women and on the family. it's from bourguiba. no progress since then. i therefore believe that if we do not want to insult ourselves, the agreements we sign, the neighbourhood policy, the values of the european union, we cannot propose an advanced status for tunisia. so i say to you clearly, propose this and renounce all demands and commitments on human rights and democracy with all the mediterranean countries. that will be the guaranteed result.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i personally welcome the organisation of this debate on the human rights situation in tunisia. the european unitary left/nordic green left has made a major contribution to this. i have always stood up for human rights, but human rights are the same everywhere in the world. i regret that this debate was not accompanied by a vote on a resolution. words pass, only the written remains. the union's oldest partner, tunisia receives the most aid per capita among the countries of the south, and is a keen player in the establishment of the free trade area around the mediterranean, to the extent that its leaders are beginning to claim their dividends and to ask to benefit from advanced status. i fully agree with what mrs flautre said and with the horror she expressed at certain remarks. the union's partnership agreements now include clauses on democracy and human rights. these should be examined with the same vigilance as economic clauses. the commission's report, madam commissioner, on the implementation of the neighbourhood policy, cannot be satisfactory in this respect. there is a real "double standard". on 25 october, mr ben ali was re-elected for his fifth term with over 89% of the vote. this number alone shows the state of democracy in this country. a closed democracy, where human rights defenders, judges, lawyers, journalists - in short, anyone who dares not support the regime - are harassed, imprisoned, and even tortured, for some of them. since last september, a real police and repressive drift of the regime has been set in place. the case of taoufik ben brik, who will be tried next saturday, is a case in point. but we could also talk about sawyer maclouf, fahem boukadous, convicted, one for speaking about the environmental conditions in his country, and the other for workers' protests in his country. yes, that is the social situation in tunisia. human rights defenders such as kamel jendoubi, sihem ben sedrin, sana ben achour and kemais chamari are victims of a shameful press campaign. sadok chourou has been languishing in prison for 16 years, radia nasraoui, who is a lawyer, is dragged through the mud, permanently hampered in her profession. students are arrested, arbitrarily sentenced, like others. passports are being withdrawn, not renewed, some human rights activists are being banned from leaving the country to come and testify. the meetings of associations independent of the government are prohibited, their visitors are controlled, and i do not have enough time to make a real assessment of the reality of social policy. why is the tunisian government so slow to respond to the un report? why did you refuse to welcome eu observers if the elections are so democratic? the facts are there, and they are being denounced more and more by the newspapers of our countries. the commission and the council must take this into account. tunisia must live up to its commitments on democracy and human rights. it is not acceptable, indeed, to go forward on an advanced status. yes, i'm all for equal partnerships! yes, all countries of the world should be treated equally, but only if they keep their commitments. i will stop there, mr president.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid the caricatures - we heard some of them this morning - i would like to recall some objective facts about tunisia, a partner country of the european union. the social situation has changed very favourably, with a dramatic increase in the average income per capita and the vast majority of tunisians now fall within the criteria for belonging to the middle class. more than 90% of tunisians have social security coverage and more than a quarter of tunisia's budget is spent on education, making it one of the first countries to achieve the millennium goals for primary education. finally, as mr michel said earlier, women's rights are recognized and guaranteed. at the university, there are more female students than male students, 40 percent of the professors are women, a quarter of the mps, or local elected officials, or journalists, are women. many countries could envy such results.
mr president, i would like to join those who have already spoken in condemning the particularly worrying situation in which the journalist and writer taoufik ben brik finds himself in tunisia. after several arrests of journalists, trade unionists, beatings and violence, after the expulsion of foreign journalists at the time of the presidential elections, the repression against political opponents and human rights defenders continues. after a botched trial, and a detention that made it difficult for his family to visit, taoufik ben brik was left in a state of health that caused fears for his life. how can we fail to see this as a harsh treatment of a troublemaker? it will therefore not be enough to value economic exchanges as the balance of any account. i think it is essential that the european union responds quickly and firmly by calling for the release of taoufik ben brik and other prisoners of conscience. the human rights situation in tunisia has deteriorated alarmingly. it is altering europe's cooperation work with tunisia, and concrete improvement in this situation is a condition for the opening of negotiations on an advanced eu-tunisia status.
mr president, commissioner, you said you hoped that tunisia would make progress on democratic reforms and freedom of expression. and you are right, because that would simply be in line with the association agreement and the commitments that tunisia has made to the european union. that is why i am very surprised at the remarks made by both mr baudis and mr michel, which seem to encourage you to ignore this part of our relationship and cooperation with tunisia and to finally abandon article 2 of the association agreement. and we are very far from meeting those commitments, judging by the fate, already mentioned by my colleague sylvie guillaume, of the independent journalist taoufik ben brik, who has been imprisoned since last october, following a trial in which his lawyers and the proceedings were in no way lawful. and, in addition to his unacceptable deprivation of liberty, he has a deteriorating health and limited visitation rights. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, whether the commission will intervene in the association council in favour of mr taoufik ben brik, to ask for his immediate release and to ensure that his situation, his state of health - at least from a humanitarian point of view - can be taken into account?
mr president, on 14 january i met with members of the tunisian delegation in a frank exchange and our respective visions were discussed. i am a french-algerian, a convinced maghreb and i am campaigning for a united, plural and democratic maghreb. the issue of human rights is essential to me and it is one of the fundamental values of the european union. the debate on this issue, as it is being raised in tunisia, is both necessary and relevant. i met yesterday morning with the wife of mr ben brik, who is on hunger strike, and with activists from the euro-mediterranean human rights network, and i am worried. it appears that mr. ben brik's life is in danger, due to his illness and the conditions of his detention. you will understand that if this risk were to materialize, the tunisian authorities would bear a great deal of responsibility. beyond commercial relations, social issues must be considered. the phenomenon of young tunisians coming to the mediterranean is the result of a closed society that offers no prospects to its youth. the wall against fundamentalism and economic challenges must not be an excuse for flouting human rights. today, real progress in this area is essential in the field of human rights. this is not a matter of moral fanaticism, but an emergency which the european union must support.
mr president, the acts of fanatical criminals who have killed christians in egypt cannot be blamed on the people and their government as a whole. it would be unjust to blame egypt and the egyptians for this abominable slaughter, whose perpetrators will be judged. we must not confuse the actions of a criminal with the politics of a country. let us not confuse fanatics with the whole population! finally, by claiming to interpose ourselves between the coptic christians of egypt and their muslim compatriots, we are giving an argument to the extremists, who seek to present the christians of the east as agents of the west.
author. - mr president, china is a great country with a rich history and immense development potential. the beijing olympics last year did not have the results some had hoped for. the relations which the european union is able to establish with that country are of particular importance. it is our duty as members of the european parliament to say out loud what we consider important and what we consider unacceptable. the human rights situation in that country is unbearable. the case of mr liu xiaobao, who was guilty of calling for democratic reforms in his country with more than 10 000 of his compatriots, is exemplary in this respect. i would venture to say that i think it is rather an achievement to allow such a mobilisation in this country. we must demand the release of mr xiaobao and all those who, like him, are harassed, imprisoned, for committing a single crime, that of defending human rights, and in particular one of the most fundamental of them, freedom of expression. recently, as one of my colleagues said, a british citizen was actually executed, even though he was mentally deficient. it is the first time a european has been executed in china in over 50 years. yes, freedom of expression is being trampled on more and more every day, as google has just revealed to us, despite having the reputation of being, if not the operator that would protect the best - at least the least bad - internet users. we know that, to establish themselves in china, operators must, at the request of the chinese authorities, install filtering software, something that even google had finally accepted. we cannot accept that a government hacks the internet and stops people from expressing themselves. the european institutions as a whole must react. chinese internet users must be able to access uncensored information. the european union should support internet companies that refuse to help the chinese authorities censor the internet or, worse, arrest human rights defenders, democrats or, more simply, journalists, as was the case with mr xiaobao in april 2005. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot end my speech without asking you not to forget the dead of tiananmen, several hundred young chinese people who died on the night of 3 to 4 june 1989. it was twenty years ago, a sad anniversary, which we would have had the honour of commemorating by paying tribute to these young victims. but not all the events of 1989 received the same attention.
mr president, i wonder what action the european union will take to ensure that the right of asylum and human rights are respected by all the member states in relation to people coming from the southern shore of the mediterranean. many of them arrive in fragile boats, and several thousand africans drown without anyone protesting. are the council and the commission really sensitive to these problems, which are both human rights and humanitarian aid? i am not reassured by mr moratinos' statements on the strengthening of the security approach and the additional resources allocated to frontex, which were recently decided by the council. it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to act in a way that is consistent with our values. it's urgent because lives are at stake.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the crisis, and for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the crisis is not just a financial crisis, but also a crisis of the economy. in this context, there is much talk of the public deficit, of member states' expenditure, but the fall in tax revenue is not taken into account. we forget that in the european union, 200 billion euros are not paid in taxes every year, money that could have been used for the necessary stimulus policies, money that would have allowed us to face with serenity what some call, in quotation marks, the demographic shock. that is why the texts we are discussing today are so important. the establishment of common tools and full transparency between member states in the recovery of debts are steps which must be taken to ensure that no citizen, no company, escapes its tax obligations and that everyone participates in the collective effort. the tax administrations in each country of the union must be given the means to carry out their tasks. it is also important to stress the crucial importance of a sound tax policy. everyone is worried about greece today. we are now seeing the consequences of the lack of an effective tax system. it is not only the crisis that is hurting the karamanlis government, but above all the lack of political courage of its predecessor, who failed to reform the greek tax administration to create an effective tool for tax collection. we hope that the union will use all the means at its disposal to show its solidarity with greece. i hope that the vote we take on wednesday will confirm the vote in committee and will lead to encouraging texts on tax collection.
mr president, this package, which appears to be rather technical, is in fact very political. firstly, administrative cooperation between states in tax matters is a key issue in the internal market. i think it is important to stress this, because the free movement of people and capital is one of the valuable achievements of the european union to which we attach great importance. but it must not be seen as an injustice in taxation, with some well-informed and mobile citizens escaping their tax obligations while the more sedentary remain subject to them. nor should it be an encouragement to competition between states, understood as an encouragement to fraud or evasion, hence our position in favour of a consolidated corporate tax base and automatic exchange of data between member states, which has already been discussed. if mrs lulling had done us the honour of being with us again, i could have pointed out to her that it is indeed a question of public freedoms when it comes to exchanging sensitive data, but that there is, in my view, an important difference between the data we can exchange between member states of the european union - that is to say, within the framework of the internal market, in the service of the internal market - and the data we exchange with countries, even friendly countries like the united states. the second very political issue, especially after the crisis, is the fight against tax havens, but also against the grey areas or complacent practices which unfortunately still exist within the european union or in associated territories. after the g20 declarations, citizens expect results and a credible union. that has been the aim of many amendments, and i think that parliament should attach renewed importance to it. finally, i would like to conclude by saying a word to commissioner kovács - it is quite rare to say goodbye to someone on the evening when his mandate ends - and above all a small message to the commissioner-designate, mr šemeta, whose openings in this area we have appreciated, as well as the opening of the barroso ii commission, which seems determined to tackle the issue, in particular by entrusting mario monti with the task of drafting a report on the internal market containing all these aspects. i believe that, whatever the resistance and reluctance of the member states, it is up to the commission - as you have done, mr kovács, but perhaps even more so - to make use of its power of initiative. the member states' coffers are empty. taxation is also a means of fulfilling them and, provided it is done in a smart way, we are in favour of it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the work of mr domenici, the report on which we are finally voting this week is a very good document. i very much hope that it will be adopted by our plenary on wednesday. many of the advances it contains in financial transparency, tax policy and the fight against tax havens, the far-reaching consequences of which are rightly highlighted here, are simply unprecedented. firstly, it is to be welcomed that the text acknowledges the considerable limitations of the fight against tax havens as it has been carried out up to now. the oecd tax conventions and lists of non-cooperative jurisdictions, to use the official language, are not satisfactory and are part of the problem they are supposed to combat. the proposals in this report to go beyond this approach, to adopt a new definition of tax havens and to put in place new tools to combat this, including sanctions, are therefore of paramount importance. this is clearly the case with the proposal to introduce an automatic exchange of tax information, both within the european union and at international level. this is also the case with the country-by-country accounting required by the report, which will make it possible to measure the real activities of companies in the countries where they are established and to verify that they are paying the taxes they are legally owed. these are two essential claims which have long been defended by many experts. we can only be pleased that the european parliament is taking them up and is thus becoming one of the institutions most committed to this fight. the problem of tax havens is not just a technical one. it refers to fundamental choices. do we want to give developing countries the means to benefit from their own resources instead of having them confiscated? do we want to ensure that all our companies and citizens contribute to the financing of our collective life to the extent of their means? by voting for mr domenici's report, we will give a positive answer to both of these questions. an answer, i think, that we can only be proud of. and i want to personally thank commissioner kovács for the seminar we co-organised in brussels on 9 december to put this on the agenda. thank you and good luck.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, i have listened to your explanations and i must say that i am appalled. you've done nothing but defend the gm plan. if you were for the common good, you would defend and talk a little more about the workers. because general motors doesn't close opel belgium because it's in trouble, it made 3.4 million profit, but that doesn't stop it from cutting 2,600 jobs. and don't let anyone tell you it's for geographical reasons because general motors is cutting 10,000 jobs in total. in fact, we are closing down here to exploit south korean workers. that is the truth, commissioner, and we should be told it. i would add that this is not done in the spirit of european solidarity, since a state - the german state - promises additional aid to opel and allows the plant in antwerp to be closed. in other words, there is no solidarity between us. and you, you're going to shut down the plant by telling us in advance that we're going to put some bandages on the workers' pain in the form of small social benefits while general motors continues to reap its profits! well, this management is anti-social, it is against the territories of the european union and it is generating enormous waste today, as we see at toyota, where hundreds of thousands of cars have to be overhauled. it is even dangerous to the safety of motorists. now we have to make a radical change. the commission must serve a purpose, it must serve the interests of the peoples of europe. that is why i will ask the new commission to draw up a european directive requiring consultation of works councils and group committees and giving them powers to monitor the use of state and european union aid, which should be accompanied by a clause guaranteeing employment, training and wages, and to promote a european strategy of cooperation between car groups for research and new clean vehicles. to this end, the european central bank must refinance a loan from the national banks that is all the more advantageous because it would be used for work, employment, training, investment in research and development of a new generation of environmentally friendly vehicles. finally, we propose to draw up a european rule requiring groups to include in their balance sheets their financial companies and all their holding companies, so that the authorities and the trade unions have a general view of the economy of the groups and not a case-by-case, factory-by-factory treatment, which in fact only aims to disarm the workers and put them in front of the fait accompli.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr tarabella, on the quality of the report he has produced and the success with which he has carried out this work in which he has addressed a full range of issues relating to equality between men and women. the latter has made some progress, we must admit. however, much remains to be done, particularly in the context of the economic and social crisis which is hitting even more hard a part of the population already highly precarious, namely women. we must also stress the double discrimination which women sometimes suffer because of disability, age or membership of a national minority. i would like to stress three particular points. we need to have reliable, coherent and shared indicators at european level. this should enable us to propose solutions adapted to a measurable reality on the ground based on credible elements with regard to equality between men and women. if we really want to move towards equality in practice, paternity leave must be introduced at european level. this is an important element for equal opportunities in employment and family life. and thirdly, the equality of women and men necessarily requires the control of the woman's own body. this means very clearly that she must have the widest possible access to contraception and abortion. i regret that this issue is still very much in doubt, to say nothing of the other, but it is clear that until women are able to control their sexual rights, we will not have achieved our goal in our battle for real equality between women and men.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the investiture of the new european commission, an essential act which enshrines the prerogatives of this parliament and which will mark the course of the union for many years to come. but before i say how much confidence i and my group place in the barroso ii commission, i should like to say a few words about the context in which it will be called upon to work. i must say that the europeans are not yet convinced that the lisbon treaty is working properly. we expect a great deal from this treaty and we must do everything we can to ensure that it represents a positive next step in the european adventure. but the law is not everything. the men and women who apply it must be equal to our ambitions. they must ensure that europe is represented in the world in a way that is equal to its message, its wealth and its successes. the european machinery obviously still needs some adjustments. we now have a high representative who is also vice-president of the european commission and, as such, responsible to this parliament. this personality must be europe's voice in the world. it must embody a presence, an ambition that is consistent with what the union is, the world's leading gdp, the world's leading market, the largest contributor to international aid. but from haiti to iran, from afghanistan to yemen, from cuba to the transatlantic relations we hold dear, the european voice has not lived up to our expectations at this stage. our group calls for vigorous action to redress the blow and to start over on a good footing. we also count on your personal commitment and leadership, mr barroso. we also look to the new president of the european council to represent the union on the international scene, to inspire and animate the meetings of heads of state and government and to be a point of reference. we must give him time to make his mark, but i am pleased to see that his first steps are already in the right direction. i expect nothing less from the council of ministers than close cooperation on an equal footing - and i say on an equal footing - with this parliament. the example of swift shows the extent of the progress that needs to be made. finally, i expect the commission - and i know that president barroso shares this view - to have an exemplary working relationship and a relationship of trust. the framework agreement on which we shall be voting this afternoon reflects this common will of our two institutions. ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of an audit exercise of the members of the commission, and i want to welcome this exercise of modern democracy which no other parliament in europe has yet practised. but we still have a long way to go to live up to our mission of judging women and politicians politically. we still need to improve our procedures, make them more relevant and more focused on the content of community policies. ladies and gentlemen, in this period of the new treaty being set up, i am well aware that not everything is possible at once. but we must not lack ambition. it is in this spirit that we are approaching this debate, which must lead to the inauguration of the new commission: a commission which, under the leadership of josé manuel barroso and with experienced commissioners, is well equipped to tackle the problems of europeans; a commission with which we share both the main political guidelines and the forecasts of the problems to be faced or the remedies to be found; a commission reflecting the results of the 2009 european elections, in which my political family, the epp, is the main force of influence; finally, the commission's first priority is to meet the expectations of europeans hit by the crisis, who are often also pessimistic and worried about the ability of their leaders to defend and promote the european model in the world. that is why the epp group will vote for the commission's nomination. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that this is fantastic. we are witnessing the coalition of the hypocrites. just before valentine's day, we told mr barroso: "i love you too, and we don't believe you anyway, but we will vote for you". so, this is really... yes, martin schulz, you make a big statement saying 'we will think about it', when everyone knows that you are going to vote for the commission. that's some great political strategy! (applause) i want to say something... but i don't know why you're getting upset, martin! you're not the speaker of parliament yet! calm down, my friend, calm down! i - we have to take 30 seconds off martin schulz - i would like to say very simple things, between us. we have large groups, which will support the barroso commission. they are unable to come together to make a resolution explaining why they support this commission. you are incapable! why would you do that? because they are not for the commission and at least guy verhofstadt is clear "i am for the liberals", and the other is for the epp, and the other is for the socialists... (comment by mr verhofstadt, not on the record: 'and you for the greens') what about me? no, there's not. but yes. you know, guy verhofstadt, we were the only group to be critical, even when there was a green in the commission or a green. this is not our political game. the question is whether this commission will have the vision, the ambition and the determination. and what was said is true. most of the commissioners proposed - i do not say all - lacked determination, vision and ambition. but the whole commission is the sum of its zeros. this is the new math from the barroso commission. no, it doesn't work like that. so, mr barroso, i like it when you read the treaty texts to us: initiatives, initiatives, which ones? what action has the commission taken in response to the crisis in greece? where is the solidarity? in spain, where is she? i didn't see her, i didn't hear her. i'll give you a piece of advice. one of greece's problems is its defense budget. 4.3% of greek gdp goes to defence. what's the matter? it's cyprus, it's the relationship with turkey. where is the commission's initiative to solve the cyprus problem, so that at last greece's gdp is relieved of this stupid, idiotic conflict which we must resolve as europeans? the commission's initiative: zero! haiti, it's been said. mrs. ashton, i know you're not a fireman or a midwife or anything. but, anyway, i want you to have ideas, i want you to stand for something. you always tell us, "it's important, we need to coordinate, i will coordinate"... we don't know why it's important, we don't know what the hierarchy of what's important is, but we know that you find everything important. it doesn't get us anywhere. so i think we have a problem. the fundamental problem here is that we, parliament, must finally demonstrate our report to the commission. and we, of course, will work with the commission, of course we will work with the commissioners, of course i know there will be a majority. but what i would like for once is that we stop with the banalities, we stop with the generalities. we want a political europe. every time there is an opportunity to have a political europe, we miss it! when in copenhagen europe must move forward, we fail! i want the commissioners - the old and the new - to tell us why they failed, why europe was not a political player, why europe was not a global player. mr verheugen is leaving the commission. he was the commission's number two, and he told the whole of germany and anyone who would listen that europe was not a global player, that europe was not playing its role. he didn't say why he didn't play his part. it is always the others, and i want once in this commission, in this debate, to stop with these generalizations, with schulz, verhofstadt and daul saying: 'the best thing would be to reject this commission so that we can finally become aware of the reality in the world together'. the reality in the world is that europe is not up to the economic crisis, the ecological crisis and the financial crisis. there's enough. there are enough of them who cannot bear to be caught off guard by their laxative words they have already hit us, they say "we are against, we are against", and in the end they abstain. "we are against, we are against, but we vote for". it is unworthy of this parliament. let us wake up, because europe needs it! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we have now completed the preliminary procedure for appointing commissioners, with hearings that have been perfectly agreed. the commissioners-designate came to us and said that they had very strong feelings about the european union, that on matters they were not familiar with they would try to learn and that they would work hand in hand with parliament. none of this is very important or very interesting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was found in the person of mrs rumiana jeleva, against whom, moreover, there were, after all, relatively few charges. and if it is a question of conflicts of interest, the past of certain commissioners - whose names i shall not mention - commissioner for competition, commissioner for agriculture, commissioner for international trade - was certainly much more worrying and yet in this house it did not pose much difficulty. in fact, mr president, i am a little sorry for you because you are now in the system of the lisbon treaty, a city which is the capital of your country, an admirable city and which deserved better than to leave its name to such a document. you're gonna have a lot of people talking to you. the framework agreement now gives you the president of parliament and the conference of presidents, from which non-attached members are excluded, in flagrant breach of the rules of procedure. you will have a new president of the union, a permanent one, but one who has not abolished the rotating presidents. you will have mrs ashton, the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, who was quite pacifist in her youth in relation to the real soviet threat, but who we have no doubt will be extremely bellicose towards iran. it's going to be a tough policy. we laughed earlier when we mentioned the marxist past of some of you. in reality, you are still internationalists, but you are no longer proletarians at all. the fate of the european workers has become completely indifferent to you. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr. president, i'm not responsible for ms. ashton's past. i know that in my country too, "pacifists" was the name actually given to warmongers who were in favour of the communists winning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, trade policy is going to be a major element of the union's external policy. unfortunately, this trade policy is now a symbol of the disappearance of the community interest, since it is only the addition of national interests. at a time when we want europe to defend its values - solidarity, social justice - and when we want europe to be able to integrate social rights, environmental rights, the defence of human rights and trade union rights into its trade agreements, it is clear that the commission has no other proposal to make than agreements which consider that there is only the market and trade as an end in itself, which is unacceptable to my political family. at a time when we want this trade policy to be able to integrate industrial policy and the effects it can have on employment policies, we find that the commission has given no guarantees on these points in the remarks made this morning by the president of the commission. but this, unfortunately, does not surprise me. nothing was said about the horizontal social clause, about defending public services, about how to see europe change its policy again or have a totally different policy. in conclusion, mr barroso, i think that trust is built on a two-way relationship. you have not given us anything in your remarks this morning that would enable us to place our trust in you. i want you to know that because i haven't given you these guarantees, i can't give you a guarantee that you'll be trusted by us.
mr president, mr barroso, the success of the lisbon treaty now depends on you and your team. surprisingly, the first permanent president of the european council chose to disappear as soon as he was elected. he did it. no one knew him outside his country two and a half months ago, no one has since. the spanish prime minister has been so courteous as to come here to present the spanish priorities for a six-month spanish presidency. this is the exact opposite of what the authors of the lisbon treaty, many of whom are in this chamber, wanted. no one knows who is in charge in europe anymore, not the european citizens, not the president of the united states. in a world shaken by the crisis, on a continent that has lost all its bearings, with more than 20 million unemployed, threatened with a lasting decline in the face of emerging powers, europe needs a pilot, a direction, an ambition, a great federative project capable of mobilizing our 27 nations and half a billion free citizens. so, president barroso, do not be afraid, but dare to speak up! objectives, strategy, method, funding, all of it has to be reinvented. the prospect of a return to strong growth has never been more remote. solidarity between member states has never been more necessary. never has the gap between our skills and our financial means been so great. never have the expectations of the citizens been so high. and perhaps never has the european parliament been more willing to support an ambitious policy to make up for the ten years of delay lost in the interminable institutional debate. i am a friend of yours who says that parliament's support will be proportionate not to your prudence but to your audacity. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the council and mr president of the commission, i thank you for giving me the opportunity to say why i firmly believe, on behalf of the epp group, that josé manuel barroso and his college of commissioners, assisted by commission staff, will rise to the challenge. europe was born out of a world crisis and, for the first time in 60 years, it is facing a new global crisis of a different kind, but undoubtedly serious and dangerous. she's getting over it, even though we're not out of the woods yet. the euro has played its role as a monetary shield, and we can never say enough about what we owe it: the automatic stabilizers, the so-called solidarity mechanisms, which we have too many of... (applause) i would like to thank what would your situation be if there were no solidarity stabilizers? they have too often been seen as a drag on our economies and have contributed greatly to the strength of the european model, a model which attracts, is copied and to which our citizens are rightly attached, but a model which is being challenged by new challenges. the world has become multipolar, but not as we dreamed it would be: idealistic, peaceful and multilateral. no, it is a competition, a struggle - peaceful, but fierce - to impose its model on others. in the face of this challenge, the union, which has so many assets, must not squander them. it must remain itself, a champion of openness to ideas and people, a pioneer in the fight against global warming, but it must also arm itself for competition. i know that this is what the new commission will be doing with us. we all know europe's weaknesses: demography, insufficient future spending, industrial challenges, public deficit, weak economic governance. all the more reason to make the most of our assets: the euro and monetary policy, technological prowess, industrial success, agricultural potential to ensure food security for our 500 million citizens. i therefore expect the commission to show imagination and leadership in the european legislation we will have to adopt. i expect it to defend european interests, to demand reciprocity from our partners and not to hesitate to use the legal means at its disposal in the event of failure. commissioners, it is up to you, us and the council to complete the internal market. to do this, we must break taboos such as taxation and social security. the member states can no longer treat these two areas as if they were reserved and inviolable competences, outside the scope of common action. but at the same time, we must do more to deal with external challenges: security and defence, but also commercial, technological or industrial standards and environmental standards. europe must ensure the defence of its values, peace and prosperity for its citizens. europe must be a global player and not just an area of prosperity and law. she must not deprive herself of the tools of her power. the epp group expects the commission to work effectively on all these fronts at once. if she does - and i have no reason to doubt it - she will always find the epp group on her side. mr barroso, the epp group has confidence in you and calls for boldness and reform. it asks you to look ahead, to serve the cause that unites us: the achievement of political europe. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, you know very well that the green group will not vote for this commission and at the same time we are offering you our european ideas, imagination and determination. mr barroso, do not play the game of saying that those who do not vote for the commission are against europe. not with us european greens. you can play that with other people, but not with us. we offer you cooperation without objection if you want to move forward on european taxation. if you want european resources of your own, we will be with you against economic sovereignty of the states. and i say to them: whether it is germany or france, we will be with you. if you want to be the guarantors of the treaties - for example, there is a negotiation today in the council to hand over the refugees to libya - we ask the council to tell us what the legal basis is for these negotiations. will parliament be involved in the decision-making process? the council says, "we'll tell you when the negotiations are over". it is impossible, it is the commission's job to ensure that the european institutions are informed of the legal basis for these negotiations. i can give you a bunch of examples. if you want to make progress on climate change, if you want europe to go beyond the triple 20, if you go towards 30%, you will have the cooperation of the whole group of european greens. if you want to go further in financial regulation after the financial crisis, you have our full cooperation. if you and your commission want to go further in protecting europe, we will work with you. if you want to solve the cyprus problem, you will have our cooperation. if you want to stop this madness that a country like greece - i said earlier - spends 4.3% of its gdp on defence, you have our cooperation. you'll have it no matter what! that is why, mr barroso, i say that we are voting 'no' now, but we may be wrong. we know we were wrong about mr. dimas last time. we were wrong, we admit it. so if you're up to our dreams, and not up to what you've demonstrated today, we'll say frankly that we were wrong, and we'll stand with you. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, that is exactly what i am saying. i'll be very brief. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr schulz has mentioned me, not by name but with sufficient precision, as having been convicted of negationism by the french courts. i would like to tell mr schulz that he is wrong and i would like to put at his disposal, as well as at the disposal of the entire european parliament's committee on immunities, the striking decision of the french supreme court, the court of cassation, which quashed all convictions against me and which, in its exceptional judgment, declared that i had been prosecuted on the basis of fragments of sentences artificially arranged to constitute a statement and that, moreover, even if that statement had been made by my political opponents, it was not covered by the law. this is an extremely rare decision because it is a cassation without referral to another court. and that's very rare from the french court of cassation. this unrevocable cassation has come up in our court history for the first time in the dreyfus case. therefore, mr. gollnisch is as innocent as mr. dreyfus. (the president cut the speaker off) i'll add one more thing. i didn't say mrs. ashton was a communist. i said she was one of those pacifists that perhaps lenin calls fellow travellers. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the european parliament is elected by universal suffrage and is thus the representative of the citizens of europe. it is therefore incredible that the conference of presidents should simply beg for the right to have access to information on an equal footing with the commission and the council or to attend some of their meetings when they are in fact invited to those of parliament! how can it be that parliament does not use its representativeness to demand that its initiatives be necessarily endorsed by the commission? why does parliament accept that the commission can refuse to withdraw its confidence in a commissioner if he asks for it? how can we accept that parliament cannot give a binding opinion when the commission changes its way of working? how is it possible that parliament does not demand more than observer status for the heads of delegation alone when they represent it at international conferences? the fact that the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament a croupier role is one thing. the fact that the parliamentarians agree with this pantomime is another matter. i am voting against this decision out of respect for the dignity of the mandate i have received from the french.
in writing. like my colleagues from the three main political forces in the european parliament, i have just approved the appointment of the college of european commissioners proposed by josé manuel barroso. it is a fine team with varied and complementary profiles. beyond political and geographical divisions, until 2014, christian democrats, liberals and socialists will work together in a collegial way in the service of the general european interest. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity in the context of the single market. at the end of that period, it was our duty to give our full support to this renewed team. we now expect this 'barroso ii' college to surprise us with its unwavering determination to move the european union forward. the added value of the european project must be demonstrated on a daily basis to all our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted against this committee, as did all the french socialist meps. the majority of the commissioners represent the liberal orientation of the european union which we reject. others are there, appointed by their member state, with no ambitions for europe, no personal vision. one thing is certain: the future commissioners have not committed themselves to any of the points which we consider essential: what strategy for overcoming the crisis? what response to the social and climate emergency? what renewed european project? we have not had sufficient answers to these questions and have therefore voted against, because we cannot give the european executive a blank cheque. i do not believe that this commission, if it does not meet these objectives, can open up a new future for the citizens of europe and a place for europe in the world. from now on, she can't have our bail. of course, i shall now have to work for five years on the proposals of this committee. my vote today expresses the confidence and political vigilance which i will show throughout this mandate.
in writing. in september, meps from the modem party did not vote for barroso as president of the commission, as his record did not support his re-election. they also did not vote for the college of commissioners today, as the lack of ambition shown by many of its members during their hearings leaves little hope for the strong commission that the eu needs. moreover, recent events have sadly highlighted the failure of this team to take stock of events. the doubts were already expressed at the copenhagen conference in december, when europe proved incapable of speaking with one voice. this doubt was confirmed in january when catherine ashton did not travel to haiti to show european solidarity but also did not attend the donor conference in montreal, where her presence was required to coordinate eu and national aid. finally, there is no room for doubt in february, when greece is being attacked by speculators without the commission being able to present a credible rescue plan. for these reasons, the elected representatives of the modem did not trust the barroso ii commission.
in writing. despite the presence in the college of several distinguished personalities, i voted against the appointment of the commission for two reasons. the commission's previous approach to economic and monetary issues (lisbon strategy, euro area surveillance) was clearly flawed. as regards the eu's external representation, mrs ashton lacks the necessary skills and did not seem determined to engage, as we saw in the tragedy in haiti. she was part of the blair government that invaded iraq in violation of international law and negotiated an "opting out" on the bill of rights.
in writing. i voted against mr barroso's commission because it does not meet my requirements to promote the social reforms that are essential to get out of the crisis we are in. it is clear that this commission will not be a force for proposals for a strong political europe and that it is the very opposite of the europe i want. with poorly defined portfolios and diluted powers, this commission will have no means of acting and will certainly be more sensitive to the preservation of national interests than the european interest.
in writing. the barroso ii commission, as its election as president has shown, is a continuation of the previous commissions whose neoliberal policies led the eu into the situation of lasting economic, social and environmental crisis that it now finds itself in. neither the programme presented by mr barroso nor the appointments of commissioners indicate any change in the commission's policy orientation. between continuity of the worst and decadence of the same, the barroso ii commission embodies the europe reduced to the social destruction and the atlanticism that the neoliberal elites cherish. a europe that refuses to break away from the neoliberal dogma of profit at the expense of the people and the planet. i am elected to build the europe of the equitable distribution of the wealth produced and the ecological planning that the peoples need. i therefore vote against a commission which is the antithesis of that.
acting president of the council. - madam president, we are facing a situation in the euro area that is unprecedented because it is the first global financial crisis since the euro has been introduced, and what is happening in this euro area and in the european union as a whole is that, without having caused the crisis, without being the place where the crisis originated - we know it was in the united states - we have suffered from it as much as the country where it originated. it is clear that the situation of government deficits has been brought about as a result of the above and the positive action of governments to avoid, among other things, the collapse of the financial system. and these deficits inevitably reduce the room for manoeuvre of governments in their budgetary policies. the debate is on the economic situation, the monetary situation and the social situation. as regards the economic situation, the euro area as a whole has already emerged from recession and the risk of deflation has also been avoided, although the inequalities in growth rates are obvious and, moreover, growth is still not entirely sustained. it must be sustained and consolidated - and this is an essential objective of economic policy in the euro area as a whole - but this recessionary situation has been abandoned. the euro area as a whole is no longer in recession. and, in any case, it is true that job creation is lagging behind. there will still be a tough unemployment situation in the euro area as a whole this year, but growth is moving in the right direction. in fact, this is one of the elements that will be discussed at thursday's informal european council meeting: the importance of growth in order to return to sustained growth, to maintain the european social model and to start creating jobs again, in this case quality jobs. as regards the monetary system, despite some tensions on the stock markets, the european union and its institutions have acted correctly. the european central bank has done and is doing its job well, graduating exit strategies. it is therefore reasonable that the incentives should not be abandoned during 2010. the european central bank is in fact phasing out these incentives, gradually phasing out some of the measures it has already adopted, for example in relation to the liquidity advantages granted to banks, and this is thanks to the fact that credit markets have been normalising. on the other hand, it must also be said that the eurogroup and ecofin have managed the crisis well and, moreover, have created an architecture for the supervision of the financial system which is going to be debated in this house and which we hope will be one of the central elements of the political debate during this six-month spanish presidency. as regards the social situation, the consequences of high unemployment throughout the eurozone are obviously being suffered, which, although also unequal, is undoubtedly reflected in the main demand of europeans at the moment: the demand for jobs; a return to growth that allows employment and employment, in this case, of quality, not a volatile or precarious employment that may have existed in some of the euro countries. among other things, it should also be noted that it is clearly the high level of employment that has triggered the so-called 'automatic stabilisers', which has given rise to unemployment benefits and subsidies, and which in turn has influenced the deficit in the member states as a result of our political and social system, which protects those who are most vulnerable, such as those who lose their jobs. in future, 'it will also be another of the topics to be discussed at the informal european council meeting on thursday', we will have to pursue an employability policy, what we call 'europe 2020', as a model for growth and quality job creation. in conclusion, madam president, i think that what has emerged in this case is that coordination and strengthening of the eurozone have been absolutely vital, that the eurozone remains an important place of monetary and economic protection, that it must be strengthened and that enlargement of the eurozone will be possible when there are countries in a position to meet the requirements, but that enlargement is also positive. and secondly - and with that, i conclude - it is essential to move in the direction of integration and economic convergence in the european union. there are still inequalities in economic positions in the union. we must move from monetary union to a genuine economic union, as the treaties say. the treaties spoke of economic and monetary union - that is how it is defined - but monetary union came before economic union. the coordination of economic, employment and social policies is in the treaties: it is an obligation and it is one of the principles, one of the lines or ideas, which the spanish presidency has put forward. coordinated public policies have been effective when they have been really coordinated: when the european economic recovery plan was made, when fiscal policies have been made around maintaining the credibility of the stability and growth pact, which has been vital, or when financial policies have been made coordinated, for example, bank guarantees or the increase in deposit guarantee funds. it is, in short, that what economists call 'economics of scale' should also be done at the political level, because at the political level coordination means good results. this is the council's view of this difficult situation, but it is one from which we are emerging and from which we must emerge in a much firmer, much more solid way. this will certainly be one of the main objectives of the informal european council meeting in brussels on thursday.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission is concerned about the substantial economic and fiscal challenges that greece faces. the difficult situation in greece is a matter of common concern for the euro area and for the eu as a whole, as large and persistent domestic external imbalances threaten the macrofinancial stability of the country with a serious risk of spillovers into other parts of the euro area. the greek authorities and the greek people are aware of the challenge in front of them. on 15 january the government presented an ambitious stability programme intended to tackle these issues. the programme envisages a deficit reduction from an estimated 12.7% in 2009 to below 3% in 2012, starting with an adjustment of four points of gdp this year. this programme displays an appropriate degree of ambition given the sheer size of the consolidation needed and is a front-loaded programme. in more detail, the greek authorities have announced a package of concrete measures for 2010. some of these measures have already been submitted to the greek parliament and are to be implemented shortly. plans for the later years of the programme are less detailed at this stage. last week, on 3 february, the commission adopted an integrated approach and surveillance mechanism which combines our assessment of the stability programme, a recommendation on the excessive-deficit procedure to bring the budget deficit below 3% in 2012, as the government established in the programme, and another recommendation using article 121(4) of the eu treaty for the first time to ensure that greece’s economic policies are consistent with our broad economic policy guidelines and with the proper functioning of our economic and monetary union. we have also started an infringement procedure to ensure that greece addresses the problems that have prevented the reporting of reliable budgetary statistics until now and the commission announced its immediate initiative on audit powers for eurostat. as regards the stability programme, the commission fully supports greece in its efforts to redress a difficult economic and fiscal situation. the measures and policy intentions outlined in this programme are an important step in the right direction. the successful large government bond issue on 25 january seem to indicate that market participants share this view, albeit at a high interest premium, and increases in the spreads thereafter also show that they remain cautious. however, there are risks to the programme targets and the medium-term fiscal adjustment. the macroeconomic scenario outlined in the programme is rather optimistic and there is some uncertainty about the underlying revenue projections, especially the estimated impact of efforts to tackle tax evasion during an economic downturn. given recent market developments, interest and expenditure projections also seem to be on the low side. as far as the recommendation on the excessive-deficit procedure is concerned, our recommendations as regard measures to be taken this year rely fully on the measures announced by the greek authorities in their stability programme. they include measures to be implemented in the first quarter of this year, such as wage-bill cuts, reduction in public employment, progress with health-care and pension reforms, tax and excise duties increases and tax administration reform. some of the fiscal consolidation measures have already been submitted to the greek parliament and should be implemented shortly. the greek authorities are invited by the commission in our proposal to the council to present by mid-march a detailed implementation report announcing adopted measures and the calendar of the announced measures. an evaluation of the risks should also be carried out so that, in case risks materialise, compensatory measures should be put in place as necessary. in this context, the commission welcomes the announcement on 2 february of further measures, notably a nominal public-sector wage freeze and an increase in excise duties on fuels to safeguard the budgetary target for this year, as well as the greek authorities’ readiness to adopt and swiftly implement additional measures if needed. as regards the later years of the programme, we call for further adjustments of a permanent nature, continued tax administration reforms and an improvement in the budgetary framework. obviously, greece is also requested to further pursue efforts to improve the collection and processing of general government aid. given that plans are less detailed, we propose setting up a tight reporting system in which the greek authorities will report on a quarterly basis on measures implemented, results achieved and measures to be implemented. this tight reporting system will ensure that the plans will materialise as planned. we also adopted the recommendation to put an end to the inconsistency with the broad guidelines of the economic policies and the risks of jeopardising the proper functioning of economic and monetary union, given the continuous loss of competitiveness of the greek economy, and the widening of external imbalances as well as by the large spread in financial markets vis-à-vis benchmark bonds. moreover, co-movements in spreads in other countries are also evidence of clear risks of spillovers to other member states. in this context, greece is expected to adopt a comprehensive structural reform programme aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the public administration, stepping up pension and health-care reform, improving labour-market functioning and the effectiveness of the wage bargaining system, enhancing product market functioning and the business environment and maintaining banking and financial sector stability. what are the next steps in this very detailed process of surveillance? our recommendations will be discussed by the eurogroup and ecofin next week, and then a first report should come in mid-march elaborating on the calendar for implementation to safeguard the 2010 targets. then, on a quarterly basis, starting in may, greece should report on the way in which they are responding to the council decision and recommendation. each report will be subject to a commission assessment. it is clear that, if there are signs that risks are materialising, additional measures would need to be implemented. therefore, it is crucial that the greek government stands ready to adopt additional measures if necessary, as they have already indicated. in conclusion, we are living in an unprecedented situation but we are facing it. greece has adopted an ambitious programme to correct its deficit and to reform its public administration and its economy. it deserves support in this difficult task, and the commission supports greece. the integrated surveillance mechanism, together with the willingness of the authorities to tackle the problems, is the guardian of a successful implementation of fiscal consolidation measures and structural reforms that will put greece back on a sustainable path. timely and rigorous implementation of the budgetary measures and of structural reforms – and both fiscal measures and structural reforms are contained in the programme adopted in greece by the greek authorities – together with the tight monitoring of the situation is the key to finding an adequate solution to the present tensions in our markets.
for the greens/efa group madam president, on behalf of the green group, i would like to say to the spanish presidency how much we support its analysis of the political will to move towards new governance tools and towards economic union, and not just monetary union as mr bullmann also mentioned. you will have the full support of our political group in this. indeed, beyond the greek case, what seems to me to be at stake is the whole set of economic governance tools of the euro area, and in particular the stability and growth pact. the stability and growth pact is no longer respected by more than half of the member states in the area. it should also be noted that until quite recently - until the crisis - spain was fully complying with the criteria of the stability and growth pact, but that does not prevent it from being in a radically different situation two years later, with 20% unemployment, and no longer complying with the criteria of the stability pact at all. what does that mean? this means that with a stability and growth pact closely centred on public finance criteria, which are quite necessary but insufficient, spain has until recently controlled its public debt and its public deficits, but at the same time allowed its private debt to explode. there was an explosion of private debt, a speculative bubble in the housing market, a recession much bigger than elsewhere and, as a result, the need to inject massive amounts of public money. this is proof that if we take a narrow view of the stability and growth pact and the governance of the euro area, focusing only on public debt, we are missing a broader view that would allow us to anticipate the next crisis and prevent it. i would therefore like to know what proposals have been put forward by both the spanish presidency and the commission to reaffirm the stability and growth pact and, above all, to integrate it into a more comprehensive framework. secondly, you say - and you are right - that there is a need for better control of public finances, that there is a need to return to more stable levels of debt. is this only, in your opinion, due to the reduction of public spending or is it also due to the ability to raise certain taxes? if so, what are they? and what role can our fiscal cooperation play in enabling the member states to regain the room for manoeuvre which will enable them to overcome deficits, not simply by reducing expenditure but also by regaining the room for manoeuvre which will increase their revenue?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in greece, portugal, tomorrow in spain or ireland is scandalous. the same anglo-saxon agencies, which have been complacent about the scams that issue and trade toxic assets and have seen nothing coming, are now the latest severity towards states that have stolen to the rescue of a financial sector that did not deserve it. the crisis caused by the irresponsibility of the markets and the banks, and this massive aid, are directly responsible for the worsening of public deficits and debt which these same markets now claim to sanction. this is the moralization of capitalism proclaimed by mr sarkozy, the european union and the g20. all the banksters have learned from the crisis is that the taxpayer is an inexhaustible source of resources, profits and insurance, because the rumor is that the scale of this panic comes from a large american bank, which has benefited from the help of the us government and two hedge funds of the same nationality, who want to profit both from the exorbitant interest rates imposed on greece and from the cds market, these insurance on government loans, which are themselves the subject of independent speculation. it will not be enough to regulate hedge funds - which you are afraid to do - or the derivatives markets, as mr barnier proposes. there is no need to create a european economic government. the 27 are in the same boat anyway, and solidarity is not an option. the free movement of capital must be brought into question, otherwise there will be no recovery but a 'recession'.
madam president, mr president, commissioner, i will of course say to you, as corien wortmann-kool, that we approve of the positions taken by the commission in dealing with the present situation in greece. as regards the spanish presidency, we note with satisfaction the objective you have set for yourself to improve the coordination of economic policies. this strong political will must also be applied to the completion of two important projects at present: the architecture of a genuine supervision of financial activities and the regulation of alternative funds. europe must not be a fortress, but it must not be a sieve either. in both these areas, the presidency must have real room for manoeuvre to conduct a successful negotiation with parliament. we expect the council to send a strong signal to public opinion and the market at its next meeting: to public opinion to restore confidence in the euro, to the market to assert its solidarity with greece. the council must make it clear that it will not be swayed by attempts to destabilise the euro by certain speculators who do not hesitate to play against states currently facing economic and social difficulties.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, this debate is important, not only because the euro is under attack, but also because the first summit under the responsibility of president van rompuy will take place on thursday. i see that today the europeans are firm and convinced that we cannot allow the imf to intervene in greece. i am glad of that because it would close the door on everything we have been advocating for so many years, namely economic governance of the zone. when we advocate economic governance of the euro area, it means that, in the face of market volatility, we must be equipped to have the means to react in accordance with this reactivity of the markets. clearly, today's situation is not quite the same. what i also see is that in our european mechanisms, the situation today is such that if you are outside the euro zone, you can be 'helped', whereas inside it is much more complicated. i never imagined the eurozone as a zone of non-solidarity. the very functioning of the euro area is based on the concept of solidarity. none of the countries in the area, whatever their export strategy, whatever their deficit, whatever their public debt, is likely to get away with it if one of the links is attacked. what are we witnessing today? a mechanism that makes financial markets play against each other, tests our capacity for solidarity, tests our capacity to make the very concept of the euro zone come to life. because the concept of the eurozone is the idea that if we want to give ourselves room to maneuver, to escape the mere mechanism of speculation, we have to develop our own strategy. but this ability, in essence, to be somewhat immune to what was the game of the foreign exchange markets before the adoption of the euro, with the mechanisms for rating sovereign debt, has been reintroduced within the euro area itself. that's what we have to consider. this goes far beyond the proposals on the table today, and it will be up to president van rompuy to launch the very important work lines on thursday.
madam president, commissioner, there are many interesting things being said here, but i think we must have the courage to question the very criteria on which the european union is founded today. there is even an article in the lisbon and maastricht treaties which forbids the european union from giving aid to greece. the fact that we have let the speculators off the hook, as we have done with the total freedom of movement of capital, the fact that we advocate fiscal competition, which leads to zero taxation on capital and companies, gradually leads to the draining of national budgets, and people are now being asked, as mr almunia has just done, to pay for the damage by pressing on wages, by lowering the retirement age and by breaking up social security systems. we must therefore change all these criteria, replace the stability pact with a human development pact for work, employment and training and decide to change the role and tasks of the european central bank so that the euro becomes a common currency of solidarity and is no longer a speculative currency as it is today. we must decide on new initiatives against tax evasion, against capital flight and close down tax havens, as promised. and finally, we must have the courage to tax the movement of speculative capital.
madam president, i also hope that everything will be done at european level to encourage the member states to take responsibility and to welcome the innocent people of guantánamo, who are victims and who must be welcomed safely on european territory. but everyone knows that the closure of guantánamo does not put an end to the human rights issues and the fight against terrorism, neither in the united states nor in europe. in the united states, as you said, counterterrorism law still allows indefinite pretrial detention and trials in military courts. in europe, the guantanamo prisoners did not fall from the sky! and i think clearly we've been holding out on this. mrs hautala rightly referred to the parliamentary inquiry concluded by lithuania on 22 december. we have to give him a big hand. that's very good. this is an example! we have not drawn conclusions from these illegal practices on european soil, and i believe that this is the job of the european commission, this is the job of the council. we must draw all the consequences of what has happened in terms of illegal practices and which led to the opening of guantánamo, in full complicity with the european states.
madam president, first of all, we have learned very recently that the guantanamo detention centre will not be closed in 2010, as was planned, but in 2013, that is to say at the end of president obama's term. if the closure has been delayed, we can still be glad that it is going on because it could have been interrupted. this is in accordance with a wish expressed by europe. we cannot both criticize the united states for years over the guantanamo facility and not show ourselves to be very willing and ambitious to help them solve this problem. i have just met the us attorney general, eric holder, who explained to me the scale of the task, but also the desire and willingness of the united states to have the support of european countries to help them close this detention centre by taking in prisoners on european territory. we must therefore, in a coordinated effort, help the americans to turn the page on an institution which we europeans have been challenging for many years.
mr president, today there is less than 15% of the original bluefin tuna stock left. given these figures, the solution seems obvious. but we must not forget the jobs involved in the decision we are facing today. it should be remembered that cites is not intended to prohibit fishing but only international trade in this fish, 80% of which is exported to japan. by saving tuna, we are protecting a dangerously prized species, but we are also encouraging the maintenance of a more balanced, more sustainable fishing activity, a fishing activity for our internal market and a job-creating one. i am in favour of the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex i to cites. and although i think this decision will be a positive one, the commission's support will be essential to allow a thorough restructuring of the fisheries sector. my question is therefore how this support is to be provided. france is asking for a suspension of 18 months and financial measures for seamen and shipowners affected by a trade ban. what is the commission's view on this matter? moreover, my concern, like that of many of my colleagues, is about fairness. how can we ensure that ships flying the flags of countries such as tunisia, libya and others will enforce the ban on international trade with the same rigor as ours? what will be the new control and sanction measures? the policy of sustainability of our economic activities must be concrete, sometimes even unpopular in certain sectors, but i hope that the commission and the council do not lose sight of the adjustments necessary to implement these measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the proposal by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to include bluefin tuna in annex i to cites is too radical. i therefore condition it on three requirements which, in my view, allow a fair compromise. the first concerns the independent scientific opinion to be published in october 2010 and endorsed by the cites meeting in september 2011. i think that scientific advice is indispensable. we must be sure that the existence of the species is really in danger before we make a radical decision on the fishing and trade of bluefin tuna. secondly, it is essential to have the guarantee of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 865/2006 concerning cites, which will result in a general derogation for domestic trade in bluefin tuna. this amendment will achieve what we all want: the sustainability of our coastal artisanal fisheries, particularly in the mediterranean. thirdly, i believe that, once we decide on this listing in annex i, financial support from the european union for the seafarers and shipowners affected by the decisions is essential. finally, if this decision is approved under the conditions i have just set out, it will have to be accompanied by a significant increase in controls to combat illegal fishing. it is on these terms and only on these terms that i can accept the inclusion of bluefin tuna in cites appendix i. without these assurances, a schedule ii listing is still the least bad, if not the best, option.
in writing. contrary to what some people tend to believe, cites is not an instrument to prohibit trade, but its purpose is to ensure that international trade in wild animal and plant specimens does not threaten their survival. i had the opportunity to meet the namibian minister for environment and tourism two weeks ago. by giving the elephant in namibia a real monetary value and thus allowing a strictly regulated trade, there is now management and protection against poaching. these measures have led to a significant increase in the number of individuals of this species, whose survival is not threatened. in the light of these elements, i encourage you to support the proposal of tanzania and zambia to declassify the african elephant from appendix i to appendix ii of cites, and to reject the kenyan proposal.
for the greens/efa group mr president, 2010 is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, and it is in this context that i hope we will adopt mr van nistelrooij's report, which is a major step forward in improving the living conditions of the disadvantaged by making housing rehabilitation and construction projects and projects to combat energy poverty in all member states eligible for community aid through the erdf. this proposal, supported by the council of europe, has long been awaited by all those who fight for the rights of marginalized communities, and especially the roma, to be respected. on behalf of the greens/efa group, i welcome the fact that the union is investing substantially in improving the living conditions of the most vulnerable, but we must not stop there. we will be very vigilant about the practical use of these funds, which must not lead to the exclusion of marginalised populations. there are many examples of urban renewal projects, such as the rehabilitation of barcelona's city centre or the revaluation of historic centres in the new member states, which have mainly benefited property speculation by the explosion of rents and rental charges, driving the most disadvantaged families from the city centre. it is imperative that these people should have access to genuine social support and to all public services such as education, health and public transport, as well as to sufficient resources to maintain themselves in these areas, as we proposed during the committee's examination in order to avoid the phenomenon of gentrification. parliament will have to assess projects carried out before the renewal of these funds in 2013 and be involved in the development of the future regulation setting the eligibility criteria, in particular in terms of transparency, in order to ensure that all vulnerable populations are the real beneficiaries and can live in dignity in a sustainable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european cohesion policy was created to provide concrete answers, with the help of substantial financial resources, to questions raised by other european policies. this included helping the most fragile member states to compete in the internal market. today, it must find solutions to the challenges of open borders and the free movement of people, which is a very good thing but can create transitional difficulties. the question of the living conditions of the roma is linked to the question of the opening of the frontiers. this is a highly european issue. it is therefore only right that all member states should be able to use the european regional development fund, the erdf, to build housing for the roma and thus ensure effective solidarity between europeans. i have asked for this measure to be extended to all the member states of the european union in several amendments tabled in the committee on regional development. i am glad that this idea has been taken up and i fully support this amended text. in my view, this increased eligibility of housing for erdf co-financed expenditure should make us think about other possible developments in the medium and long term, whether in terms of eligibility for funds or in terms of focusing on certain strategic priorities.
mr president, first of all, welcome and congratulations to you, commissioner füle. on monday, the 12th session of the trial of the alleged murderers of hrant dink took place in istanbul. for the first time, regular observers of this trial felt that the court was genuinely seeking the truth and that the connections between this trial - the trial of the alleged murderers of hrant dink - and other ongoing trials - such as the ergenekon trial - had been first emphasized by the prosecutor. this is extremely important because through this trial we are judging the totality of political murders, the intolerance of society and the impunity that still reigns, which is what the families of the victims of these political murders have very well said by referring to themselves as the "deep family" of hrant dink, in reference to the turkish "deep state". i say this because things are moving forward, because there is a desire and a movement for reform in favour of democracy and rights that is being carried by civil society and that is exceptionally powerful. i would also like to mention another example that is making headlines right now - others have spoken about family honour killings - of this 16-year-old girl who was found buried in a chicken coop and who had been convicted by the family council for talking to boys. it's terrifying, and it's a crime. the members of this family will obviously have to be imprisoned. a few years ago, such crimes were not the focus of the news. it is therefore gratifying to see that there is no longer any tolerance in turkish society for these so-called honour killings, which are pure barbaric crimes. turkish society is in motion, it is in turmoil, and i believe that when we talk about turkey we must be very clear that any reform in this country profoundly affects the relations between citizens, the institution, turkish history, democracy. these are absolutely vital things. i think our process has to be totally honest. today, the sincerity of our process is known and is measured by our ability to support the complicated, decisive and historic process in cyprus. today the european union must make it clear to cyprus that we are ready to support and guarantee by all means, including economic and financial, any agreement that is reached between the northern and southern sides, and that we are also determined that nothing in the community acquis can stand in the way of a consensus that is reached in cyprus. we must move forward, and this includes the future of turkey's membership of the european union.
madam president, i have a question, but what question? to whom and for what purpose? i believe that our delegation - and you are one of them, mr madlener - is committed and is firmly committed to human rights and equality between men and women, and to supporting all initiatives against violence against women. i have already mentioned this in my speech. i believe that so-called honour killings, which are crimes organised in a family and tribal way, are absolutely unbearable, and that today it is very gratifying to see that no one in turkey can stand this kind of archaic and criminal practice any longer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on amendment no 21 which i tabled, i should like to begin by thanking all my colleagues for supporting me in tabled ing an amendment which lays down the principle of the implementation of a carbon tax at the borders of the european union. i would also like to remind you that we cannot have a double language with our fellow citizens: when we campaign, we cannot say that europe is protecting them, that it will protect their businesses and their jobs, and then, once elected, forget this commitment. i would simply like to point out that this amendment has enabled me to initiate the debate, and i therefore wish to withdraw it in order to allow the debate to flourish at council level.
mr president, the resolution of our parliament shows that our institution has no critical sense, in this field as in so many others, of the dogmas that have been set up for us. indeed, many scientists believe that the famous exponential global warming curve in the shape of a hockey stick is actually a graphic fabrication. glaciers aren't melting everywhere. in any case, contrary to what the ipcc had predicted, they do not melt in the himalayas. the water level is not nearly as high as bangladesh, on the contrary. the ganges delta is rising due to flooding. the number of polar bears that are said to be endangered has never been greater than it is today. the alternation of warm periods and cold periods has occurred several times in our history, including very recently, outside of any human activity. it is probably caused by astronomical phenomena and not by the supposed greenhouse gases. until such questions are answered, it is bound to be thought that there may be some magnificent ideological dogma here that justifies the advent of a world government.
in writing. the report by david casa on the common system of value added tax as regards the rules on invoicing was adopted by a very large majority, including myself. it simplifies the rules on invoicing in the field of vat by further harmonising european requirements and making electronic invoicing more widespread. the entry into force of this directive will therefore reduce the administrative burden on businesses and help to combat vat fraud.
in writing. the housing situation is critical in the european union. it is a european policy of decent housing for all that we need, a binding and ambitious european policy on social housing. it was, of course, essential that parliament should speak out in favour of the renovation of unhealthy housing and the replacement of slums with decent housing. but it is equally important and urgent that the european union makes access to decent housing a fundamental right for all. she has the duty and the means. the european union cannot accept becoming a region of social underdevelopment.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of mr van nistelrooij's report by a large majority (558 votes in favour, 57 against) on wednesday. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, and for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment. the report envisages the possibility of using the erdf for the renovation and replacement of existing buildings as well as for new construction for marginalised communities in rural or urban areas in each of the 27 member states. this extension to all member states, and not just the 12 that joined in 2004 and 2007, offers solutions to the problems of unhealthy housing experienced by certain marginalised communities across the union. this will enable an integrated and sustainable approach to be established at european union level. moreover, this extension is fully in line with the objective of the 2010 european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. i am glad that parliament has voted for these amendments and i hope that the regions concerned will find them a useful tool to deal with an urgent and fundamental problem for these communities.
in writing. i have supported this report from the outset - in particular to extend its scope to all eu countries - which allows the use of the erdf by the 27 to finance the construction of new housing for marginalised communities, as well as the renovation and replacement of existing buildings. in the context of a major economic crisis which is shaking europe and affecting all the member states, housing problems have worsened further. the european union had to intervene, using all the tools at its disposal, to help the poorly housed and particularly the marginalised communities who could not benefit from erdf funds before. the amendments tabled by the members of the presidential majority in the regi committee mean that the fund is not only eligible for the new eu member states, but for all 27 member states, which are all facing the same difficulties. the regions concerned will be able to replace the unhealthy housing of socially excluded communities and develop comprehensive, integrated and sustainable solutions to their housing problems. this report gives the eu a practical way to help its citizens. may it be a further step towards a social europe closer to the people.
in writing. like the gue/ngl group, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, as this is important in the context of the economic crisis in our member states. we believe that tackling these issues is a matter of priority in the context of the economic crisis in the member states and at a time when budgetary austerity is increasingly weighing on the most modest. according to some estimates, tax fraud amounts to 200 billion, or 2% of gdp and twice the amount the european union is spending on the so-called european economic recovery plan. the european parliament report also introduces the need to improve data protection, an important principle in the exchange of information and data. like the report, we will urge the commission and the council to report to the european parliament on the implementation of its position and on progress in cooperation between member states in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. i supported this resolution to emphasise the major solidarity commitment that the european union must make to help this devastated country almost a month ago. after the emergency, it is the long-term assistance that will have to be developed, especially at the level of the most vulnerable people and government structures which have no other way today than to cede their authority to the us forces. finally, europe will have to learn from such events in order to make its response in the future faster and more effective in order to deliver humanitarian aid to those who need it most.
in writing. i supported the resolution condemning iran's attitude both in terms of its intentions in the nuclear field and in the violations of freedom of expression to which its people are subjected on a daily basis. the use of violence by the iranian authorities against protesters is unacceptable, as is the censorship of the press and the obstruction of information.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against this resolution on human trafficking, which is one of the most heinous crimes there is. firstly, because you are making it a political instrument to further increase the powers of brussels europe, its institutions and its multitude of agencies, which nevertheless continue to demonstrate their inefficiency. secondly, and above all, because you are using the normal attention to victims to create a new immigration suction pump: social and legal assistance, automatic residence permits, access to the labour market, simplified access to family reunification and social assistance. all of this would be granted whether or not the victim cooperates with the authorities in helping them apprehend the traffickers and dismantle the networks. the eu is also working to ensure that the eu's citizens are not forced to pay for their own transport. so, whatever you think of him, he'll claim that status and those benefits! and you will grant it to him. you are irresponsible !
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the prevention of trafficking in human beings tabled by the left and centre groups in the european parliament, because we must say loud and clear that the victims of trafficking - the vast majority of whom are women, but also children - must be given unconditional protection and assistance. the victims should be given priority access to free legal aid, penalties for traffickers should be increased and ways should be found to discourage demand for services from clients. this is an unacceptable form of violence against women, and joint action must be taken to prevent such trafficking, to protect the victims and to prosecute the perpetrators.
in writing. all forms of slavery, whether 'modern' or not, are absolutely reprehensible. the resolution thus has the merit of seeking to defend the victims of the violence of dehumanized appetites for profit and the social and psychological misery they create. it is nevertheless regrettable that it is limited to treating victims of criminal networks in the underground economy. for human trafficking also has its legal counterpart which is no less abject. neoliberalism, with its profit frenzy, its constant competition of workers, its relocations, also exerts both symbolic and physical violence on citizens. it forces them to migrate against their will and plunges them into such distress that suicides in the workplace are on the rise. to subject citizens in this way, to reduce them to the state of adjustment variables of an inefficient and unhealthy system, tools in the service of the interests of the financial elites, without regard for and at the risk of their lives, what is this but the equivalent of the property on beings that is slavery? if we are to fight underground crime, we must also fight institutionalised crime and make the european union a union for the emancipation of citizens.
in writing. by voting on this resolution, i expressed my disappointment with the agreement finally reached in copenhagen at the end of 2009, an agreement which i consider to be insufficient, lacking in ambition and containing no quantified commitments. i also regret that the amendment tabled by my group to introduce a 0.01% tax on financial transactions, which would finance the climate effort of the poorest and most directly affected countries, amounting to eur 20 billion per year, could not be adopted. finally, to have a say in such international negotiations, the eu will have to learn to speak with one voice, so as not to miss any more opportunities to play a key role in global climate change. this includes setting ambitious targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% by 2020.
in writing. the resolution includes significant progress by the right-wing groups that signed it: citing the work of the ipcc, which refers to climate change, calling for greater participation of civil society in the work of the mexico city conference, calling on the eu to push its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets beyond the 20% proposed for 2020. but they are not enough, and the praise for the carbon market makes them unrealistic. the aid proposed for the countries of the south, to which we owe a climate debt, is insufficient. similarly, the proposed target of a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is far from the 40% recommended by the ipcc. moreover, no reference is made to the initiative of the world conference of peoples on climate change by bolivian president evo morales ayma. yet, to date, it is the only country in the world that has proposed that people recognize the rights of ecosystems and establish a climate justice court.
in writing. i abstained on the european parliament's resolution on the copenhagen conference because it does not live up to the failure of that conference, even though the european parliament clearly condemned the european union's shortcomings on that occasion. it is true that positive measures have been adopted, such as those calling on the commission to revise its ambitions for greenhouse gas emissions and to provide sufficient funding for the fight against these gases. other amendments are unacceptable because they leave it to the market to regulate by means of pollution permits, clean development mechanisms, etc. the european union is also called upon to enter into negotiations with the united states to create a transatlantic market for polluting rights. finally, i regret the rejection of the proposal for a green tobin tax, the proceeds of which would have helped developing countries in the fight against climate change. there can be no lasting, serious and coherent solution to climate change in the logic of the system that created it. the european union must step forward and set an example, regardless of the attitude of other states. she can do it if she can afford it.
in writing. for you, good tax governance is not about fighting fraud, being able to pay taxes or using public funds properly. it is the systematic tracking of the taxpayer, mainly european, the automatic exchange of information on his bank accounts, in the absence of any infringement. and i am not talking about the big companies or the very rich individuals, who will always have the means to get through the net, but the average european. your talk about tax havens is hypocritical: no mention of lichtenstein or the caribbean, but no mention of the biggest european tax haven, the city, or those in the united states. and silence on what makes these havens possible: the tax hells that most european countries have become, sinking under debt and deficits. because public spending has exploded to support the social consequences of your economic policies and the exorbitant costs of mass immigration. because the states can no longer finance their debt except on the markets and on their terms, which means that today 15 to 20% of the budgetary expenditure of a state like france is used only to pay the interest. we will not be used as a moral alibi for such a policy.
in writing. while it is necessary to combat tax fraud, it must not make us forget that fraud alone would never have led to the economic crisis we are experiencing today. this crisis is a structural crisis of capitalism and has its source in the very logic of this system which the european elites blindly advocate. i am voting for this text because i condemn the pursuit of personal profit at the expense of the general interest. such a logic is as much present in tax evasion as in european neoliberalism, which neoliberalism is much more responsible than fraud for the failure of the millennium development goals, which are feared. vat, which is also supported in this text, is one of the aberrations of this system. it is the most unfair tax in the world, because it subjects all citizens to the same tax rate despite the huge income gaps that are the hallmark of neoliberalism. it is a pity that the text does not tackle the substantive problem and does not seek to finally put the fair distribution of wealth produced for the general interest on the agenda of european policies.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on equality between men and women in the eu. this report stresses the urgency of a community initiative to combat violence against women effectively. the adoption of this resolution also incorporates two aspects which i consider to be fundamental. firstly, the recommendation of paternity leave at european level. for equality in employment, there must be equality in society and in family life. this resolution places the european commission in charge of legislation in this area. but the real big win in this vote is the reaffirmation of the right to abortion. no european text had reaffirmed this right since 2002, due to the reluctance of a part of the european right. women must have control over their sexual and reproductive rights. it is true that there is still a long way to go in terms of effective access to information, contraception and abortion, but the tarabella report must be a key reference point for the advancement of european law in this area.
in writing. yes, women face specific difficulties. but as is so often the case in this house, the best feelings lead to distorted analysis and delusional propositions. the report thus portrays a caricature of a european society marked by daily and systematic hostility towards women: stimulus policies are sexist because they help sectors with a male-dominated workforce, budgetary austerity policies also because they affect feminized public sectors... on the other hand, there is absolute silence on the consequences of a massive presence in europe of immigrant populations whose culture and practices confine women to a lower status, light years away from our values and conceptions. we are also silent about the negative consequences of your 'everyone is equal' speech: women are gradually losing the specific and legitimate social rights they have obtained in recognition of their role as mothers. finally, silence on the question of parental pay, the only way to give women a real choice between working life and family life, or a reconciliation of the two. finally, when i see the hysteria which is driving many of our colleagues to impose mass and compulsory abortion everywhere, elevated to the rank of an essential value of a europe on the way to collective suicide, i regret that their mothers did not have abortions.
in writing. while i strongly oppose all the eu's negative measures and there are many , when things go in the right direction, i support them. the report makes strong demands (particularly to the european commission) for the fight against inequalities in treatment of women, the introduction of paternity leave, the creation of a year against violence against women and the right to easy access to contraception and abortion. it also stresses that women should have free access to abortion consultations. that is why i voted in favour of the report. but the best is yet to come. i can only regret the refusal of a majority of this parliament to support the creation of a european charter of women's rights, a european observatory on gender violence and an international day for equal pay. the european parliament has also failed to address the root causes of these inequalities, which lie in the economic system of the single market law that europe is organizing every day.
in writing. women are the first victims of the economic and social crisis that the neoliberal policies of the european union have generated. the crisis has also led to an increase in precarious employment and part-time work. our societies remain totally imbued with patriarchy. they are now marked by a strong return of stigmatisation on the basis of religion and women are still the first victims of these developments. it is therefore gratifying to see the european parliament putting such a crucial issue as equality between women and men on the agenda. it is a pity, however, that the text does not address the inherently unequal nature of neoliberalism. it is responsible for much of the suffering of women and sees in the widening of gender inequalities an additional means of prosperity.
in writing. the european parliament calls for a total ban on the international marketing of bluefin tuna. i am not voting for this measure, as i am elected from the sète basin. there is no consensus on this ban, neither among scientists nor among environmental associations. if such a radical ban were nevertheless to be decided in march at the international conference in doha, i would ask the european commission not to prevent the financial compensation that the states might be obliged to pay to fishermen. in recent years, fishermen have made considerable efforts to comply with increasingly restrictive quotas and to modernise their fleets. it would be indecent to force them to change their occupation tomorrow without giving them significant financial support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. one of its objectives is the conservation of bluefin tuna, which is an essential element of the balance of marine biodiversity. the ban on international trade in bluefin tuna will help us to preserve our bluefin tuna stocks, which are threatened by overfishing. europe will have to make sure that measures are taken by third countries, because how are we going to explain to our fishermen in europe that japanese, libyan or tunisian trawlers are plundering our bluefin tuna stocks legally? we must also be concerned about negotiating the organization of an exclusive economic zone which will allow small-scale fishing to continue because it does not threaten the resource.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ban on the marketing of bluefin tuna and, as a corollary, compensation for the tuna sector, provided for by an amendment which i had co-signed and which was able to be adopted in part. for example, bluefin tuna should be included in annex 1 of the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), subject to a general derogation for internal trade, allowing the continuation of small-scale coastal fishing, and to strengthened controls against illegal fishing. we must not only be concerned about this endangered species, whose stocks have fallen by 60% in the last 10 years, but also provide substantial aid to the fishermen and ship owners who will be affected by this measure.
in writing. bluefin tuna is threatened with extinction due to the lack of control over the overexploitation of this resource. a ban on its marketing now seems inevitable. it's meant to protect this species. conscious of the problem, many fishermen, particularly in france, have been working for years to bring their boats up to standards and to respect the fishing quotas necessary for the survival of bluefin tuna. these fishermen, already hard hit by the crisis, will be the first victims of such a measure made necessary by illegal fishing and hidden industrial sectors. the effort made by these fishermen cannot be borne by them alone. we cannot ask them to sacrifice themselves for the sake of the planet while the powers that be in copenhagen have shown that they are not doing enough. the un principle of shared responsibility for environmental problems must therefore be applied and the effort of fishermen must be compensated by a contribution from the european union. moreover, the creation by france of a genuine exclusive economic zone in the mediterranean would make it possible to protect the resource while maintaining a small-scale fishery that respects ecological balances.
in writing. scientific reports on the current bluefin tuna biomass are alarming: uncontrolled fishing on an industrial scale has seriously depleted stocks. this industrial and international fishing threatens the traditional coastal fisheries in the mediterranean. in order to avoid an ecological catastrophe, coupled with an economic crisis for the fishing sector, it is urgent to introduce a policy of international prohibition of industrial tuna fishing. my demand is to reconcile two major issues: the effective protection of bluefin tuna to enable it to survive and be marketed in the future and the support of european coastal fishermen whose economic activity is partly based on this trade. that is why i support the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex i of cites in order to prohibit its exploitation and to avoid the extinction of bluefin tuna, but under the following conditions: the continuation of scientific expertise to know the exact state of the biomass of this species, the economic and social support of european fisheries operators and, above all, a derogation for the internal trade in bluefin tuna for artisanal purposes, in order to avoid the death of artisanal coastal fishing, which is a traditional activity in the mediterranean.
in writing. i am not speaking against croatia by voting against this progress report. the people of croatia do not deserve any ostracism, but i do not agree with the euro-liberal dictates that are being imposed on eu member states and candidate countries alike. the economic side of the copenhagen criteria, the liberalisation of markets it imposes, puts the social acquis of the candidate countries at risk. i will only be in favour of the accession of new states when the eu puts regional integration at the service of all the citizens who have to make it up and not of the interests of the capital which dominates it today and gives the european union a framework for integration without the citizens controlling it.
in writing. i am not speaking against the fyrom when i vote against this progress report. the people of the ymca deserve no ostracism. but i do not agree with the euro-liberal dictates which apply to both the member states of the european union and the candidate countries. the economic side of the copenhagen criteria, the liberalisation of markets it imposes, puts the social acquis of the candidate countries at risk. i will only be in favour of the accession of new states when the european union puts regional integration at the service of all the citizens who have to make it up and not of the interests of the capital which dominates it today and gives the european union a framework for integration without the citizens controlling it.
in writing. i am not speaking against turkey when i vote against this progress report. the people of turkey do not deserve any ostracism. but i do not agree with the euro-liberal dictates which apply to both the member states of the european union and the candidate countries. the economic side of the copenhagen criteria, the liberalisation of markets it imposes, puts the social acquis of the candidate countries at risk. i will only be in favour of the accession of new states when the european union puts regional integration at the service of all the citizens who have to make it up and not of the interests of the capital which dominates it today and gives the european union a framework for integration without the citizens controlling it.
in writing. cooperation with the united states in the fight against terrorism is important, but not at any price. the agreement with the united states on the transfer of financial data is a bit like opening and reading the personal mail of all european citizens or monitoring all their e-mail exchanges on the pretext that terrorists may send letters or e-mails to each other. the agreement in question does not guarantee the respect of personal data, let alone the use that may be made of it. the risk of interfering with the privacy of millions of innocent citizens or with the perfectly legal financial transactions of european companies, simply on the orders of an administration, is not acceptable. i am reminded of the echelon case, a wiretapping system purportedly for military and security purposes which has turned out to be a formidable potential system of commercial and political espionage directed against allies. we can accept an exchange, that is to say a reciprocal transfer, of targeted data at the request of a judicial authority in a specific context. we want to help swift to break the technical deadlock which only allows it to transfer information in bulk. but we cannot accept this agreement.
mr president, we all want to fight terrorism and what it represents as a threat to democracies. i think there is a consensus on this in our parliament. if the saying that a people willing to sacrifice a little freedom for a little security ends up losing both seems to me to be quite excessive, i am still convinced that everything must be done to find a balance between security and freedom because this is the basis of democracy and because otherwise the terrorists will have won if they succeed in terrorizing us all. two questions about the body scanners. in terms of security, are these scanners really safe today? in terms of freedom - as a member of the committee on civil liberties - i wonder if there are no health risks, and of course in terms of infringements of the privacy of the individual, and therefore of fundamental rights, and in terms of the use of these images. let us stand firmly by the work of the commission to make progress and to do so in a community manner, all together, in order to ensure our security in an area of european democracy.
mr president, i would like to draw the link between the scanner, health and terrorism. what is the view of the interagency committee on radiation protection, which brings together the european commission, the iaea international atomic energy agency and the nuclear energy agency? it says that pregnant women and children should not be subjected to body scans, even if the doses are extremely low. it should be noted that frequent exposure to low doses of radiation can cause cancer and deformities. so my question is about the justification of the risks. since there are alternative technologies that can achieve the same objectives, we really need to justify the scanners in relation to the given objective, and we need to know...
in writing. nearly 10 years after 9/11, the terrorist threat is still present and airplanes are one of the terrorists' preferred instruments for striking our countries. we must find a way to protect our citizens and prevent them from becoming victims of terrorist acts. body scanners can be one way to increase security at airports and on board aircraft. but before we make a decision, we must ensure that these machines do not infringe individual freedoms and do not harm the health of passengers or airport staff. i look forward with great interest to the study which the european commission will present on this subject in march. by addressing all the different aspects of their use, this report should enable a european-level certification of scanners that ensures the protection of civil liberties and health while improving safety. in order to ensure that all citizens are afforded the same protection, i hope that, following the presentation of this study by the european commission, we will encourage the member states to reach agreement on this subject.
the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe is currently experiencing an unprecedented crisis which, beyond the economic and financial crisis, is first and foremost a crisis of the system. before i even begin to discuss the effects of the economic crisis on world trade, which is the subject of our debate, i would like to make one point clear: trade is not a victim of the crisis, it is also one of its constituent elements. we are in fact living in a period of great global imbalances, fuelled on the one hand by excessive trade deficits in some countries at the cost of growing internal indebtedness, and on the other by trade surpluses driven by exports from some countries, especially emerging countries, with domestic consumption not growing at the same pace. in addition, the policy of trade liberalization pursued so far has only exacerbated these imbalances, weakening in particular the poorest countries of the world. the latter, encouraged to specialise in export monocultures, thus found themselves unprepared for the extreme fluctuations in the prices of raw materials, the volatility of which was accentuated by international speculation. it is a strange world to set the eradication of poverty and hunger as the first objective of the millennium development goal, while at the same time speculating on the rise in the price of wheat. but today, the very same people who advocated liberalization and deregulation at all costs in the 1990s are also in a difficult situation. the ever-increasing loss of jobs, the stagnant or sometimes negative growth, the growing social crisis are all factors which make it impossible to allow jobs to disappear in the name of this cult. how can we explain to workers who lose their jobs in a crisis that the key is to maintain a deregulated business, even at the price of sudden and sometimes tragic relocations? the crisis we are experiencing is therefore a systemic crisis, which must be met by a new development model. in its current global europe strategy, the commission's vision is mainly focused on market access and liberalisation in all sectors. i believe, commissioner, that we must redefine this strategy, which has gone astray and sometimes leads to failure. we cannot boost the exports of our industries by forcing even more developing countries to open up. this would only worsen the situation in these countries, which already account for 70% of the 59 million people who lost their jobs worldwide in 2009. on the contrary, it is essential to think of a new strategy which strikes the right balance between openness, protection and support. i would like to return to these notions. these developments cannot be ignored, which are causing the united states to use its trade defence instruments more intensively or china to challenge european anti-dumping measures at the wto. in fact, when we are dealing with unfair practices, it is obvious that protection is necessary, but its principle must be assumed and defended internationally by rejecting, once and for all, the sometimes misleading accusations of protectionism. the need to support trade policies is also becoming more urgent every day, and this requires, in particular, a genuine coherence of the policies pursued by the union. policy coherence is not a debate of intellectuals, but an absolute necessity if we wish to redefine a new model of development.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, thank you for having brought the fantasy of crisis-related protectionism to its rightful size. i think it was smart of you to show in the debate that we are not on the verge of a world war linked to a resurgence of protectionism. now i almost feel like i have to reverse the question. the question for me is not, in the final analysis, what the effects of the economic crisis are on trade, but more fundamentally what the effects of trade, and in particular of the trade policies that have been introduced over the last 20 years, are on the crisis we are experiencing today. in a way, the food crisis that we had two and a half years ago came before the financial crisis, and it was a crisis in the global agricultural markets. in the same way, we are constantly told that liberalizing trade with china is good for us. i believe that after a certain time, china will not just have a comparative advantage over europe, it will have an absolute advantage if we do not integrate social issues, monetary issues, tax issues and, of course, environmental issues. so in all the national debates - and you are a figure on the belgian scene - you know that today all the political parties are finding that in a globalised world we cannot manage social dumping, environmental dumping, monetary dumping, fiscal dumping. in the same way, the strategy that we europeans were all waiting for after the fall of the berlin wall, which was to say 'social democracy will be transmitted through trade', is not working, as we see with the example of china. commissioner, you mentioned the lisbon strategy, innovation, the green economy, and you know that this european strategy is now a failure. if the lisbon strategy is not integrated before the global europe, one may wonder what industrial sectors will still be left in europe. where is the definition of industrial choices, agricultural choices, economic choices and, of course, the social and environmental choices that we are developing at european level, and then how do we trade with the rest of the world? until we do that, we're in for a failed strategy. a more specific question: on 4 february 2010, there was a meeting of the wto committee on trade in financial services, in particular on the issues of the financial crisis and the liberalisation of financial services. can you tell us what came out of that meeting and what your views on the matter were, if you were able to follow it?
madam president, the economic and financial storm we have just been through has caused a great deal of damage. our economies are in disarray and we are still struggling to keep up with certain emerging powers. it is time now, mr commissioner, for you to be the captain of an ambitious and voluntary european trade policy, aimed at defending our commercial interests in a straightforward way and focused on mutual opening of markets and the promotion of our competitive advantages. the european union must first find the right balance between ultra-free trade and protectionism. in my view, this third way must be embodied in the creation of a fair framework for trade. the european union is strong on certain values: respect for the protection of intellectual property, fairness in investment, market access, the fight against non-tariff barriers to trade and respect for social and environmental standards. it must therefore be accepted as principles by emerging countries such as india and china, which are not only customers or competitors but also partners. in addition to the need to establish balanced trade, you must help to boost the competitiveness of our european companies. how can we do this? innovation, investment in research and development, and the international influence of the competitiveness clusters seem to be some of the keys to overcoming the crisis. we must also target our actions on innovative enterprises, particularly smes, by relieving them of excessive administrative and tax burdens, and on green technologies and services. (the president cut the speaker off)
for the greens/efa group mr president, as you said, this agreement is innovative. he's innovating, but not necessarily in the way we talk about it. indeed, for perhaps the first time, we see in the outcome of the negotiations that there are losers, which is assumed, but in the context of a trade negotiation with third parties. it is not in the framework of the lisbon strategy, it is not in the framework of an industrial policy that we have chosen who would be the losers in europe if trade were opened up. secondly, this agreement is also innovative because, in trade negotiations, it is usually the agricultural sectors that resist and the industrial sectors that are happy. here, we see that it's the other way around. for the first time, it is literally large industrial sectors that are complaining about the choices made by europe. thirdly, this agreement is also innovative because you mention the 1.6 billion in tariff reductions which we will benefit from on the korean market. but do these numbers just mean something? i am an elected representative of the west of france, and particularly of brittany. if you have visited brittany, mr de gucht, you will know that green algae and pollution of groundwater are a huge problem today, linked to the intensification of pig farming. now we're told we're gonna make a little money on the pork with south korea. the reality in the region where i am elected is that this intensification of pig farming is causing jobs to be lost, it is causing value added to be lost, it is causing tourism to be lost and that, as a result, in my region, we are losing out on this agreement. maybe in your total calculation we win, but in a region like mine, we lose. finally, this agreement is also innovative because, for the first time, we are going to ask for an environmental derogation. we are constantly told that europe is the undisputed and unchallenged leader in the fight against climate change in the world. the reality is that we are negotiating exemptions with south korea on co2 emissions from cars because the automobile lobby has been very strong in europe in pushing back the deadlines for co2 emission constraints and now they are forced to get exemptions from outside. it is therefore clear once again that europe will suffer more from this agreement than it will build it in terms of industrial strategy, strategy for our companies and economic choices. you mentioned it, the lisbon strategy, the green economy, innovation. i do not see how this agreement will help. i mean, you often have a very balanced discourse on things, but as soon as we talk about taxes, all of a sudden, there... on the border carbon tax mentioned during your hearing and now on the tobin tax, i bet you, mr de gucht, that before the end of your mandate the commission will have to speak out strongly on the tobin tax because it is now an indispensable tool for the regulation of financial markets.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in september we were already debating in plenary the free trade agreement between the european union and korea. many of us have already expressed our fears about the negative consequences of this agreement, particularly for the automobile sector. we didn't think the facts would prove us right so quickly. on 21 january, opel announced that it would close its antwerp plant and relocate production to south korea. is it to be assumed that this decision has nothing to do with the free trade agreement which has just been negotiated? let me see a connection. in this period of economic crisis, when workers are the first to pay for the mistakes of financiers, the commission has a responsibility to take account, more than ever, of the employment consequences of the agreements it negotiates. it is no longer possible to give a simple answer to these workers, who we know will have difficulty finding a job. we cannot tell them that international trade is a game of winners and losers, and that unfortunately they will be sacrificed and that there is nothing we can do about it. today we are waiting for answers from you, commissioner. we would first like to know whether your directorate-general has assessed the impact of this agreement on employment in europe, because i have to tell you that the figure, which was announced in a very high-handed manner, according to which european exporters would make profits of up to eur 19 billion, does not convince us. where does this figure come from, what study is it based on? but, in addition to the expected positive effects, have the negative effects also been taken into account? the commission has prepared a regulation on the arrangements for implementing the safeguard measures under this agreement, particularly as regards the duty drawback, which is an advantage never granted, even to our developing trading partners. the proposals put forward provide for complex procedures for invoking and enforcing safeguard clauses. but i am reassured that for the first time parliament will soon be able to vote on this text in codecision. however, i would like to stress that the employment problem in europe will not be solved by palliative measures taken on a case-by-case basis. that is why i am asking, together with my whole group, that a genuine european industrial policy be drawn up at last, a genuine strategy for the future of our industries. in the context of the economic crisis and increased global competition, this industrial policy must be effectively coordinated with the common commercial policy so that our free trade agreements do not destroy jobs in europe. a second subject on which we are awaiting clarification is the protocol on cultural cooperation, which is included in the agreement. several member states reacted very strongly to the negotiations with korea, a country which has not ratified the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. i denounce the very principle of opening negotiations on this subject and i consider that cultural matters should be handled independently of trade negotiations and placed in the hands of the commissioner responsible for culture in order to avoid this subject being a negotiating element in the same way as conventional goods or services. in conclusion, commissioner, you know how essential it is that members are fully informed of the negotiations under way and involved at all stages, including the definition of the negotiating mandate. i would like to emphasize that, despite the differences in our approach, better information to parliament in advance would have helped us to understand the strategy being pursued. i hope, therefore, that i can count on your support and that of your commission to facilitate our future work, each in his own responsibility, but always in the service of a more community-oriented, of course, but above all a fairer trade policy.
mr president, commissioner, this agreement with korea is going to be the first to really implement the global europe strategy as a major agreement, and it should therefore be particularly exemplary because it is going to set a precedent. we see that there is first of all a problem of informing parliament, particularly on the safeguard clauses, then a problem of method since we are already being told that provisional provisions could be implemented or the agreement could be provisionally implemented without even waiting for parliament's assent, and a problem of clarity and transparency of the trade framework - this was raised by mr rinaldi - since, through the duty drawback, an agreement could in fact have been indirectly concluded with china. i think we must be particularly clear about these free trade agreements. in addition, there is a problem of consistency with the ambition to develop social and environmental standards. we are far from what the united states has negotiated in its agreement with korea on respect for social standards. finally, frankly, when you look at the economic situation we are going through, with an automobile industry... (the president withdraws the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, on behalf of the ppe group, i would like to propose to this house that mrs hennis-plasschaert's report be referred back to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, in accordance with rules 63 and 175. we heard the council and the commission yesterday. both have asked parliament to give them more time to respond to our own requests for an interim agreement. ladies and gentlemen, this parliament is right to hold the council and the commission, but also the united states, to account. this is our responsibility - even more so with the lisbon treaty - and we must assume it. this parliament is right to put the safety of individuals and respect for privacy on the same level, because one cannot exist without the other. in asking you to postpone our vote a little, the epp group is not calling into question its demands or the authority of parliament. he asked for the ball to be sent back to the commission, the council and the united states for a very short period. my group is proposing that parliament should limit the council's time by requiring that the necessary information be provided to us not in may as the council has requested, but as soon as next month. we could then decide definitively as early as next march. it's not unrealistic. this is all the more so since we learned last night that commissioner malmström was committing herself to propose, as early as next week or at the next mini-session in brussels, that is to say in ten days, a new negotiating mandate for the final agreement. a new mandate in february, a vote in parliament in march, that is what i propose.
in writing. faced with the slowdown in economic activity and the worsening employment situation, especially among young people, the european parliament and the commission are setting up a new microfinance facility called progress. the modem parliamentarians' action focused in particular on opening up the scheme to micro-enterprises in the social economy in order to enable these structures to develop social support services for vulnerable people wishing to set up or develop their own micro-enterprises. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in the end, a balanced compromise was reached between the commission, the parliamentary groups and the council, which provides for mixed funding (€60 million from the progress programme budgets, €40 million from new european budget lines). the entry into force of this new arrangement is a step forward which demonstrates the union's willingness to take concrete action to address the legitimate social concerns of its citizens and demonstrates the value of involving the european parliament more closely in europe's decision-making process. the modem meps welcome this.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague kinga göncz to encourage the creation of a key instrument for microfinance for employment in enterprises with fewer than 10 employees and social inclusion. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in a context of economic crisis, we also owe more than ever the action of all the actors in the social economy sector who have difficulty in accessing the traditional credit market. let us also restore the confidence of european citizens in a europe that can help them in their entrepreneurial projects, despite their fragility.
in writing. i welcome the outcome of this vote because the safeguards for the protection of citizens' privacy were unsatisfactory in the council's proposal. the defence of civil liberties is a fundamental issue, and the fight against terrorism must be conducted with respect for them. in voting for parliament's resolution, i wanted to reaffirm that the interim agreement should be in line with the criteria of the lisbon treaty, and in particular the charter of fundamental rights. i also ask that data be collected only for the purpose of fighting terrorism and that european citizens be able to have "the same judicial redress procedures as those that apply to data held within the territory of the european union, in particular that of payment of compensation in the event of unlawful processing of personal data". i welcome this vote, by which the european parliament shows that it is fully assuming the new responsibilities conferred on it by the lisbon treaty and that it is able to resist pressure from european states, but also from the united states. this is a telling sign of the new political balance that is taking place within the european union.
in writing. i strongly supported this report so that the european parliament would express a clear rejection of the swift agreement, negotiated in secret, without taking into account the european parliament's concerns which the council and the european commission have been careful to keep out of the negotiations. it is essential, both on the principle of privacy protection and on the efficiency of these data transfers in the fight against terrorism, that discussions take place so that a clear agreement is renegotiated. the message of this vote is also to reaffirm the role of the european parliament as a servant of the european citizens, and in this its will to defend in a solid and effective way their fundamental rights and freedoms both in the protection of privacy and in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the swift agreement because i believe that this data exchange is useful. our respective intelligence services have reported on a number of specific cases where this has proved useful. the terrorist threat is present, there's no denying it, and the attempted bombing in detroit last month is a confirmation of that. so we have to be responsible. it's about mutual aid. this agreement should not be interpreted as a unilateral commitment by the eu. the union will give access to its information, but in return the us authorities will analyse this data, which cannot be done at present in europe in the absence of a european counter-terrorist financing programme equivalent to the us tftp. this agreement ensures our security and not just the security of the american territory. finally, it is a genuine international agreement, unlike the unilateral commitments that existed before. the guarantees will be binding, the application of the agreement will be assessed, and if the eu considers that these guarantees are not respected, the agreement clearly states that the parties can denounce it.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madagascar is like many other countries in the world, in relation to which the european union is showing its political impotence. this is particularly true in africa. one year after the illegal takeover of power by andry rajoelina, the great island of madagascar seems to be sinking deeper and deeper into a social, economic and financial crisis, and yet its people did not need this. indeed, it has become one of the poorest countries in the world, and the vast majority of the population now live on less than a dollar a day. the violations of human rights are increasing. religious leaders, parliamentarians, journalists and civil society leaders are being intimidated and harassed, arrested and imprisoned. the international community has not spared its efforts, refusing to recognize that this is indeed a coup d'état and that it is indeed a military government that was set up by andry rajoelina in madagascar. madagascar has been suspended from the african union and the southern african development community. since 2 february 2009, many attempts have been made, including by the un and even the european union, and this is what gave rise to the maputo and addis ababa agreements. but since november 2009, these agreements seem to be stuck because of divisions between the various protagonists and the refusal of some of them to participate in the implementation of these agreements. in the gue/ngl group we believe that it is time to give the malagasy people a voice again and that it is high time to respect democratic rules. mr andry rajoelina, the strongman of the regime, prefers to hold elections unilaterally without consulting the malagasy people, in defiance of the agreements mentioned above. he unilaterally set a date for so-called democratic elections, first in march 2010, and now it seems that he is talking about an unspecified date between the end of march and the end of 2010. we therefore want humanitarian aid to be increased, legal proceedings to be initiated and the european union to exert its full weight to ensure that civil society is involved in the measures being taken.
author. - mr president, since 1962 burma has been ruled by a military junta, one of the most repressive regimes in the world. the last democratically elected meps were elected in 1990. they were all arrested or forced to resign. more than 2,000 political prisoners, including more than 230 buddhist monks, who participated in the peaceful protests of september 2008 are reported to be still in prison. several tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, i should say, of burmese migrants are living in thailand, india, bangladesh and malaysia in often more than precarious conditions and are trafficked. tens of thousands of people have been displaced against their will. in such a situation, journalists are particularly at risk. at least 14 journalists are currently in prison and i would like to mention in particular the case of hla hla win, a 25-year-old journalist who was sentenced to 27 years in prison for illegally importing a motorcycle because she dared to go to a buddhist monastery. the junta has indeed announced new elections. like mrs de keyser, i believe that they have no other object than to legitimize the government in power. we can only be skeptical of the results. today we are once again strongly condemning the systematic violations of human rights in burma, calling on the burmese government to engage in dialogue, calling on it to put an immediate end to the continued recruitment of child soldiers. we will again call on the governments of china, india and russia to use their influence. but i would urge you, commissioner, to speak for us to the commission and the council so that the european union maintains the restrictive measures against the burmese government because beyond words we will not have any tangible evidence of a democratic debate. we ask you to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken and to do everything possible to ensure that the civilian population...
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european council of 11 february was the first to be convened, chaired by herman van rompuy, whose presence in parliament's plenary session is my first welcome. mr van rompuy, the epp group expects a great deal from you. i welcome the positive and pragmatic spirit of your speeches since your appointment, and i approve of the tone you want to set in the european council, but i expect you and the council of ministers to realise that with the lisbon treaty your relations with us, the members of the european parliament, have changed. we are decision makers on an equal footing, and this has not only legal but also political consequences. now i come to the substance of the debate on 11 february, and the substance is, of course, strategy 2020, but it is also the euro and economic and fiscal policy, because the speculation against the greek debt and the euro were indeed the surprise guests of the solvay library. i ask the question: is the weakening of our common currency only due to the greek crisis, or is the euro not under direct attack by those who are not in favour of its strength and that of its member states? secondly, are we going to wait until the situation in some of the eurozone countries worsens before reacting, as we did with greece? if not, what is the plan to correct the shooting in the countries most at risk? i ask you, my dear president van rompuy. i ask these questions because, while i welcome the solidarity measures taken on 11 february, i have serious doubts whether we europeans are really up to the task. and what is the situation, if the greek alert has not shown how much we must take courageous decisions to finally give the euro, our currency, the political expression of the strength it embodies? there is certainly a lot of talk about economic governance, but it could be made much simpler and certainly more effective by designing and implementing real budgetary coordination among the euro-zone members. the former french prime minister, edouard balladur, has himself just acknowledged the need for further sovereignty cuts - it is not easy for a frenchman - and advocated that national budgets of euro states be approved by the eurogroup before they are even submitted to national parliaments. i take up this bold idea here and ask the european council to consider it, to analyse it seriously. by really coordinating their budgets, the euro states would have unprecedented weight and room for manoeuvre. this would enable them to exert a decisive influence on the development of new global regulations, but it would also require european forces to be united in the international financial arena, where the euro must speak with one voice. i will take a striking example - and i believe josé manuel said this - of the imf, where voting rights are calculated according to the economic weight of the states. with these criteria, the united states has 16.7% of the voting rights, japan 6%, china 3.6% and the six founding countries of the european union 18.49%. but if they were to present a united front at the imf, the euro countries would represent 23% of the votes and the european union countries as a whole, still united, 32%. i said 32%, almost twice the united states. that, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality of the balance of power in the world. but because it is still divided, europe is unable to weigh its full weight. is it tolerable any longer? the epp group does not think so. it is time, mr president, that the euro states opened their eyes to this situation and drew the consequences. they would thus anticipate what necessity will soon compel them to do, to unite truly, instead of clinging to the appearances of economic sovereignty, which are only dangerous pretenses.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr farage, do you agree to apply article 9 of the treaty to simply ask to leave europe? that way, you'll have peace of mind.
madam president, mr barroso, mr van rompuy, i would first like to say that everyone agrees on the objectives of the 2020 strategy. but the problem with our continent today is that it is emerging from a serious crisis and its characteristic is that we have extremely low or even negative growth overall. so this requires political awareness, and it has two goals for me. the first is how we organize ourselves politically. and you have two major responsibilities in your posts: coordinating economic policies - this is absolutely necessary - and setting objectives with the tools to achieve them. and that brings me to the second element which i think is essential, and which will also be a question. to achieve objectives in public policy, a budget is needed. europe is faced with the dilemma that the member states have large deficits and the larger their deficits are, the less they will contribute to the common european pot. and in doing so, we have less capacity to be able to jump-start our growth. how do we get out of this dilemma? that's the question i'm asking you. it is based on two elements. firstly, what guidelines will you defend when discussing the budgetary perspective with the member states? secondly, are you able to move towards innovations which enable the european investment bank, like the ebrd, to take on much more responsibility and, why not, europe to be able to borrow to finance this necessity which is the growth of tomorrow?
mr president, after the lisbon strategy, here is the 'twenty-twenty' strategy. is it just a name change or a change of direction? i am particularly concerned about mr barroso. when i read your contribution to the informal council, when i heard you speak today about the number of poor people in the european union and the need to develop financial regulation, i thought to myself, mr barroso, what a pity you have not been president of the commission in recent years! because you could have done everything you propose today and now you say that the crisis has prevented you from doing it, but the crisis has a good backing. finally, to any sinner in mercy, let's not waste any more time. i therefore turn with hope to mr van rompuy, first to welcome him in a more cordial way than has been done before by one of the members, not the others. it is a bit of a paradox, mr van rompuy, that we are counting on you to revive a europe which is genuinely community, and you come from a country which knows what the word 'community' means in the general interest. if you succeed, you will have the support of this parliament, and i believe that the twenty-twenty strategy should not be misled by words. if words have meaning, we must above all think in the medium term, think globally, think beyond nationalism. and i agree with what mr lamberts said: the members of the financial supervisory board are not giving us any grand european visions at the moment. they've got both feet on the brake. i therefore propose to you one single objective, which you mention in your own paper for the council, namely economic and monetary union in all its aspects, consolidating discipline, of course, consolidating solidarity; the council should be reminded that if there are problems in greece, it is partly because of the greeks and partly because of the lack of solidarity.
mr president of the european council, mr minister, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen. finally, mr president of the european council, you are welcome to join us! but my first words will be to reiterate my immense disappointment that you have not made the first political move to come and appear before the representatives of the peoples of europe since 1 december, the date on which you took office. like us, mr president, you are involved in politics, and you cannot be involved in politics without democracy. and the democratic lesson of the french and dutch referendums of 2005 and many other peoples, if they had been consulted, is that citizens tell us: "it is not that we are against europe, but we feel that it is done without us, sometimes against us". so thank you to angela merkel, who was in your place in 2007, and to nicolas sarkozy, the newly elected president of the french republic, who have put citizens back at the heart of the european construction with the lisbon treaty which creates the high office you occupy. you must understand, mr president, that nothing can be done without the citizens and their representatives, just as our parliament must understand that nothing can be done without the states and therefore the heads of state or government. let us get to the bottom of this: the peoples of europe are suffering because they no longer understand the meaning of the great global turbulence that is unfolding before their eyes. you have a duty to give meaning, to set the course, to convince the european council that europe is not a problem, it is a solution. europe does not expose, it protects. europe does not suffer, it acts. what is your vision of the world and the union's place? could you tell us what role intergovernmentalism plays in your european strategy, particularly in relation to the economic governance we lack and the establishment of the external service? mr president, the european union is walking on two legs. states and governments and people. we're looking for the head, you're the head! moreover, you should not be in second place, but in first place, and it is your ability to lead the states towards a political union on which the future of the union will depend. thank you for coming, mr. president. you're a man of great quality. do not be afraid of the people and their representatives. love them, and they'll love you back.
like it or not, the goldstone report was approved by the un general assembly, and i do not see why there should be two weights and measures in international law today. there is international law, and the goldstone report uses the term war crime, which, by the way, everyone has seen on television. even israeli soldiers testified that they were ordered to shoot civilians. in these circumstances, the european union must, and our parliament must, create the conditions for the israeli government to comply with international law, using, if necessary, the sanction of suspending article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement. this article states that "relations between the two parties must be based on respect for human rights and respect for democracy". it's simple, you just have to apply it. the european union must therefore make clear its determination to refer the matter to the international criminal court if nothing is done, as the goldstone report recommends. in the end, our assembly must decide on a fundamental question: do we want a harmonious world in which justice and peace finally prevail, or do we want the law of the jungle of the politics of force? we must take responsibility for the people of europe and the people of the world.
mr president, in israel, the work of judge goldstone is demonized, totally discredited in the eyes of the citizens. at the same time, a violent campaign of defamation is being waged against human rights defenders, in particular the new israel fund, a foundation which funds the main israeli human rights organisations, and in particular its president, naomi hazan, a former knesset member, academic and intellectual known for her commitment to the defence of women's rights and peace. thirteen peace organizations, including bethlehem and breaking the silence, are victims of a real witch hunt. the european union must give its full support to human rights defenders in all countries, including, of course, israel, whose impunity is an insult to democratic values. the european union must defend israel against its own demons.
for the greens/efa group as early as 2006, the un was stating that the most vulnerable and poorest people were the first victims of climate change. women are the majority in both categories. in sub-saharan africa, for example, although women are already discriminated against in access to and control over land, the scarcity of arable land caused by droughts further reduces their livelihoods. a recent report predicts that by 2050, one billion people will have fled from a hostile environment. the precarious situation of these climate migrants, forced to take refuge in makeshift camps, raises the threat level against women. however, it must be noted that in the last 15 years, not a single piece of legislation adopted at european level in the environmental field has included a gender dimension. i therefore ask on behalf of the green group that the european union and its member states integrate the gender perspective into all environmental impact assessments, laws and policies.
we are debating equality between men and women today, 15 years after the fourth beijing conference, and at the same time as we are celebrating the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. i would like to draw a link between the two, since it is true that women are still the first victims of poverty. in france, for example, they represent 80% of parttime work, with precarious and low-paid jobs. it is also women who, at 80%, earn less than the minimum wage, and who end up with pensions that are close to the minimum subsistence income. in addition, the average pay gap between women and men remains very high. equality between women and men therefore remains partly theoretical, and women, who also continue to face a large part of the family burden, sometimes have to work part-time, with multiple employers, and ultimately earn less than men. it is therefore essential that we have public policies that specifically target these inequalities, both in the labour market and at the domestic level, and social security systems that actively respond to women's needs. without such measures, beijing's objectives may well remain mere speeches with overly utopian aims.
for the greens/efa group commissioner, it is good to want to debate the outcome of this tool before the european parliament, but the first thing to respect vis-à-vis the european parliament is codecision. so this tool is going to be useful to us, but it could be more operational, more efficient and more transparent. more efficient, especially if it took account of all decentralized energy sources. it's not about accounting for every solar panel, but at the state level, there's information that you could collect to account for all decentralized energy plans. i am surprised to hear our liberal colleague, when we talk about democracy and transparency, reply by saying 'bureaucracy'. this instrument must be transparent, it must be discussed, and the commission must consult all the parties concerned, in particular the trade unions and associations. finally, taxpayers are very much involved in the energy transition effort, so it would be important to have information on financing, to know precisely in which direction taxpayers are financing the european energy transition. i hope that the amendments we have tabled will be voted on by a large number of members tomorrow, more than tonight.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unlike some people, i consider the european parliament's report on the green paper to be a significant, even essential, contribution to the development of the future cfp. it is a comprehensive report covering all aspects of the policy, including resource protection, a comprehensive approach to fisheries management and decentralised governance. all this seems to me both very relevant and very voluntary. today, i would like to express france's satisfaction with this contribution from parliament, which we have worked on collectively, and i thank maria patrão neves for her work. the report stresses the need to strengthen scientific expertise in the fisheries sector so that the decisions taken are unquestionable. yes, we must conserve resources and promote sustainable fishing, but we must be careful not to stigmatise a profession which has long understood that its survival depends on respecting the rules. yes, we are living in a market economy. this does not mean that we must abandon organized means of regulation. i particularly welcome the compromises which have resulted from our discussions in committee. the individual transferable rights are not explicitly mentioned. this management approach is seen by some as a management tool that meets the ecological, economic and social objectives of the sector. i don't think that's what you mean. a european market with unregulated production rights is not desirable today. it would lead to uncontrolled speculation and a concentration of individual rights. although it will undoubtedly be essential to introduce new management methods for industrial fisheries - and i agree with my colleague, mrs carmen fraga - i remain convinced that too broad an application of this system would be a death sentence for our small-scale fisheries, which we are very attached to. mrs. damanaki, we're counting on you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and for the enormous amount of work they have done, despite sometimes divergent interests. the first result of our efforts is that parliament can now state the direction it intends to give to the future common fisheries policy. secondly, our priority in the negotiations was to ensure that this text responded to the concerns expressed by fishermen. we have succeeded in doing so: the provisions on individual transferable quotas have been abolished and support for small-scale and coastal fishing has been affirmed. third expected result: the forthcoming document should be the result of a participatory and bottom-up approach, i.e. consultation of all the actors in the sector. it will also have to incorporate elements that are essential to the social democrats, such as the human and social dimension of the whole sector, which will have to be combined effectively with the promotion of sustainable fishing practices and the conservation of fish stocks in an ecosystem approach. i would like to add that if we are to achieve an ambitious reform, we must devote to this reform of the common fisheries policy a budget commensurate with the stated ambitions. our political commitment will be judged by the amount of resources we give it. we expect the commission ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the rapporteur's proposals on this green paper, which are in the right direction. the new strategy must promote local fisheries and i would like to point out that aquaculture is a significant part of this, representing important resources and tens of thousands of jobs. europe needs strong, sustainable and quality aquaculture. i would like to draw your attention in particular to shellfish farming, which is subject to specific constraints requiring pragmatic and appropriate responses. the breeding is often done by small businesses that have been hit hard by the crisis. pollution and environmental changes are making production ever more fragile and unstable. the producers expect substantial aid from europe, that is to say: in the short term, temporary financial aid to enable them to continue to live off their production, in the medium term, transitional aid so that the species have the biological time to reproduce and, in the long term, ... (the president withdrew from the floor)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, when mr simpson said in this house last november: 'although the community rail system is very safe and progress has been made in recent years thanks to market liberalisation', i almost choked. however, he added: "recent fatal accidents have raised safety concerns". since the buizingen accident, its terrible toll in human lives and the great physical and psychological suffering it has caused have been a powerful reminder that it is high time to open the debate on railway safety in earnest. let us immediately reject the idea that every accident is, by nature, unpredictable. the first factor of insecurity on the european rail networks as a whole is a direct consequence of the separation between rail infrastructure management and rolling stock management. this separation - and it must be emphasized here - was imposed against the most basic common sense by the commission in order to open up railways to competition. it's highly accident-prone. because of this separation, in the name of the highest profitability, the maintenance of the european rail network is sacrificed. you can try to save time by emphasising, as the only perspective for solving problems, the use of the best techniques of the moment. in the end, we need a different rail policy in europe. if every year there are fewer railway workers, less maintenance, less investment, less training, we will inevitably have to talk about accidents again and pay sad tributes. the real railway safety requires the union to turn the page from competition to cooperation. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, after this debate, no one can ignore his responsibilities. as for me, i refuse to be an accomplice to evil. no change ... the president shall withdraw the floor.
in writing. the tragedy that is now befalling belgium is probably due to the specific characteristics of that country, as many flemish colleagues have pointed out today. to what extent will be determined by the investigation. but above all, it has a fundamental cause: the liberalisation of rail transport and the separation of the management of the network from that of transport itself. as a result, the network, its quality and safety have been sacrificed to the logic of profit for the carrier, who finds the tolls imposed on it too high, as has the renewal and modernisation of the trains. the timetables and schedules are now based on the logic of profit, not on the needs of the users. some lines are being closed, although they are busy, because they do not produce enough. others are served in spite of common sense. delays are becoming more systematic, including for the tgv. in your liberal system, the citizen who takes the train has not become the king-customer: he has remained the user-taxpayer, who can be treated like cattle. as in all the activities you have liberalized, we are now paying more and more for a service which is becoming more and more degraded, if not, alas, dangerous.
in writing. i voted in favour of the valean report on the proposal for a council regulation on the communication to the commission of investment projects relating to energy infrastructure in the european community. a sufficiently precise picture is essential to promote a better match between energy supply and demand at european level and to decide on the most appropriate infrastructure investments. this will also increase transparency in markets (while protecting business data) and combat energy dependency on a source or a supply site.
in writing. i voted against mrs valean's report because it supports the liberalisation of the energy sector and a liberal european energy policy, the dramatic consequences of which we are aware for workers in the sector and for a growing number of citizens, and which may even lead to regular interruptions in the supply of energy. this report emphasises the primacy of the market, the neutrality of public intervention and gives priority to 'economic agents'. we know what interests they serve. we can fear for the preservation of existing infrastructure when an amendment calls for the guarantee of priority investments in the interests of the energy market alone. it is not enough to add the word 'solidarity' to the end of an amendment to make european energy policy acceptable when, in addition, an amendment refuses the european union any intervention in the functioning of the market. in this context, we also know what fair competition means. in general, the objective should not be to meet an ever-increasing demand for energy. the additional funding for new infrastructure investments should instead be allocated to the development of energy efficiency. despite the current economic crisis, neoliberal dogmas remain the alpha and omega of many community policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the 13th session of the un human rights council, firstly to welcome very favourably the initiative to make the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis on the full enjoyment of all human rights a priority of its agenda. it also seemed important to me to stress the need for a firm common position of the european union on the follow-up to the report of the fact-finding mission on the conflict in gaza and southern israel, and in this respect the recommendations of the goldstone report must be implemented. finally, iran's candidacy for the may 2010 elections to the human rights council is particularly worrying and must be followed by firm action by the european union to prevent the election of countries with more than problematic human rights records.
in writing. i supported this resolution because 15 years after the beijing world conference on women, we have to face the fact that there is too little progress in gender equality and the persistence of gender stereotypes in many sectors such as employment, education and politics. i also supported a reference to the need to improve women's sexual and reproductive health, both in europe and globally, and the necessary encouragement of fathers to share family responsibilities, including through paternity leave. finally, in the context of the revision of the lisbon strategy, priority should be given to the objective of gender equality, which should be reflected in concrete impact in national measures for social protection and inclusion.
in writing. i voted with my colleagues in the gue/ngl group in favour of the report by eva britt svensson on beijing +15 - the united nations programme for equality between women and men, which makes a contrasting assessment in this area. progress has been made, but how can we be satisfied that there is still a 14 to 17.5% pay gap between women and men? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the ecr group's very ambiguous statement implies that women who have abortions are not making informed and responsible choices. it's an indirect attack on abortion rights.
in writing. there were tens of thousands of people on the streets of athens yesterday and greece was paralyzed by a general strike, in protest against the austerity plan imposed by the european union, the frankfurt central bank and the imf. it is true that greece has not always been very rigorous in its management of public accounts and european funds. but it is scandalous that the main virtue of this austerity plan should be to reassure the markets, the very markets that are speculating on greek debt today and are at the origin of this turmoil. the same markets that the states have to borrow from at great cost because of your ultra-liberal laws. and meanwhile, under the pretext of an alleged increase in the workload due to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the alleged concern of parliament for the quality of the legislative texts it produces, meps were giving themselves a "small" budgetary increase of a few million euros to hire staff for the political groups! so apply to yourselves the meticulous control of your expenditure and the rigour you hear demanded of the states! we shall vote against this text!
in writing. the crisis is here and it is true that many businesses and citizens are in difficulty. i voted in favour of increasing the parliamentary assistance budget because the entry into force of the lisbon treaty increases the powers of the european parliament: we have more work to do, more accountability to the citizens. this increase is only for the benefit of the assistants, that is to say our staff, without any increase in the member's own pay.
in writing. i voted against the report by mrs maria do céu patrão neves because of the rejection of the amendments seeking to strike a balance between environmental interests and the preservation of small-scale fisheries. i also regret the rejection of the amendments calling for a thorough dialogue with fishermen in the context of this reform. i do not know how, in this context, a reform acceptable to fishermen can be adopted which meets the requirements for a common fisheries policy worthy of the name.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have mentioned, the storm xynthia which has just hit western europe has caused the death of nearly 60 people and considerable material damage. today, i feel great sadness but also anger because this human catastrophe could have been prevented or, at least, limited in its impact. yesterday in france, and today throughout europe, we are witnessing the artificial development of coastal and flood-prone areas, in spite of and in violation of existing european and even national legislation. these are often natura 2000 areas, and protecting these areas from urbanisation is essential to limit the effects of such natural events. it is up to us in the future to show greater responsibility, to ensure that the member states strictly apply community legislation, including the birds and habitats directives, and to make the structural funds subject to the requirements of sustainability, security and biodiversity. the eu 2020 strategy is a unique opportunity to redefine our relationship with nature and the environment. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the london conference on afghanistan has caused a wave of panic in afghan society, especially among women. the peace plan endorsed by 70 countries includes a fund to help reintegrate the taliban and a loya jirga, a large assembly, is to be held in a few months to implement this reconciliation. women do not want to, should not, bear the cost of reconciliation. the taliban still demand the suppression of women's rights and the return to sharia law. there are fears that the loya jirga will amend the constitution and remove the articles guaranteeing women's rights, and in particular article 22 of chapter 2. on 8 march 2010, i solemnly ask the european union to guarantee the future of afghan women, because we cannot allow the reappearance of the most feminist regime in history.
mr president, on the night of 27 to 28 february there was the storm xynthia which particularly struck the west of france in a very deadly way. we are thinking of the victims, of course, and of all those who have come forward to support them. we are very clear in our request that the european commission should set up the solidarity fund very quickly to help those most affected. but we also need to learn from this tragedy. how is it possible that 5 to 6 million people in france live in flood-prone areas? we can see the pressure from the housing lobby, but we can also see, for example, president sarkozy, who a few months ago asked for the possibility of building in flood-prone areas. so the responsibilities are obviously political. we ask that all the co-financing linked to reconstruction, rehabilitation, all this european co-financing, be made conditional on compliance with the laws - coastal laws, flood risk prevention plans - and we of course ask, once again, that we can quickly show solidarity with the most affected sectors, in particular shellfish farming.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am happy to contribute to this important debate on the innovative financing instruments and answer this oral question. regarding the options for the introduction of a general financial transaction tax, the commission intends, as announced in its eu 2020 strategy, to contribute to the debate on innovative financing at global level. it is currently working on defining and assessing different approaches, one of these being a general financial transaction tax (ftt). the ‘financial crisis responsibility fee’ proposed in the us and the ‘stability fee’ on certain assets of banks, as introduced in sweden, are other ones. as far as the ftt is concerned, it is clear that the options today differ from the initial discussions on the tobin tax, as it would cover a broader base of financial products. concerning the advantages and drawbacks of the introduction of the general ftt, the commission believes that, in assessing the different instruments, it is important to avoid the accumulation of initiatives that could be detrimental to the financial sector, and to ensure that the new initiatives do not result in the relocation of transactions to other regions, which would have a negative impact on europe’s competitiveness. regarding the possibility of implementing a general ftt in the eu if our main partners do not introduce such a tax, i would like to remind you that the imf is also, in parallel to the work of the commission, examining options, including a global financial transactions levy. this demonstrates that the subject is of a global nature and the commission believes that the best way to tackle this issue is to find global and coordinated solutions. this is our first and preferred option. concerning the use of tax as a complementary regulatory tool in the context of financial market reforms, i can confirm that the commission is considering complementarities between the tax and regulatory instruments and will pay attention to the cumulative impact of these two types of instruments on the ability of the financial sector to support economic recovery. regarding the possibility of making the financial system long-term oriented with the introduction of a general ftt, the commission is not aware of clear data or studies on the relationship between such a tax and the maturity structure of financial intermediation. concerning the allocation of revenues generated by a ftt, as the analysis on innovative financing is still ongoing, i think coming to any conclusions about revenue sharing and allocation would be premature. let me, nevertheless, emphasise that the potential revenues of a general ftt would be very asymmetric, probably located in only a few countries that have the largest financial centres. this asymmetry points to the need for global solutions, including about the sharing and allocation of revenue. finally, the timing of the different initiatives. as a first step, the commission’s services are currently examining the issue of innovative financing instruments overall. the commission will also take into account the conclusions of our main international partners in order to identify the options with the most potential. it is on this basis that, in a second step, concrete proposals with a detailed impact assessment might be launched, in line with the commission’s standard approach on better regulation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis we are experiencing has forced the public authorities to intervene financially with public money. in these circumstances, it is tempting to consider the introduction of a financial transaction tax. the proceeds from this tax would be used, for example, to finance the recovery and sustainable development of the economy and, initially, could be used to offset the cost of the crisis to the real economy and taxpayers. this tax would be in addition to the regulations regulating the financial sector, the elimination of tax havens or the regulations currently being drawn up on derivatives. at this stage, it is necessary to first assess the effects of taxing financial transactions. the main purpose of the oral question is to encourage the commission to examine in practical terms the various points listed in the motion for a resolution in order to give an opinion on the feasibility and appropriateness of such a tax. what you have just said, commissioner, is in line with our wishes. however, it should be stressed - as you have done - that in this approach realism and pragmatism are required. such taxation must not have a detrimental effect on the european economy or on the competitiveness of the european financial industry. more generally, it is important to highlight the consequences of implementing this taxation in the european union alone if, as some advocate, no agreement is possible at international level. and we do not think that such a purely european solution is possible.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, we are in a public finance crisis and we know that part of the solution may lie in cutting some spending but that a big part of the solution also lies in the ability of the states to raise more funds. so the question we have to ask ourselves is what kind of taxes can be increased, what kind of taxes should be increased and what will be the consequences of these tax increases. our analysis as a green group is that it is difficult to raise taxes significantly for small businesses, which are the ones that create the majority of jobs. it is difficult to raise the taxes paid by households, except perhaps by the richest, because in most cases these tax rates are already high enough, especially in europe. so the question is, what taxes are we raising? if we do not increase the tax on smes, if we do not increase the tax on households, if we do not increase vat, we must necessarily open the field. our analysis is that the financial transaction tax is ultimately the least painful tax for the european economy. it is the tax with the least negative consequences for the european economy in global competition. in addition, over the last ten years or so, the cost of financial transactions has fallen dramatically, as a result of a number of technical advances - if one can call them that - and european regulations. in fact, these decreases in transaction costs were fully absorbed by the financial industry and banks. it would not be totally illegitimate if part of the profit from the reduction of these transaction costs went to the public authorities which saved these same banks, through a financial transaction tax. it is a very ideological debate, in this parliament and elsewhere, but it is something that is quite technical. transaction costs existed before. they've been reduced. today, it is proposed to increase them again so that it is the public authorities who benefit from this technical progress and not just private actors. the question is, of course, whether the european union can take this step forward on its own. it is obvious to everyone that it would be better if it were done in an international framework. the question that arises if the united states, to put it very clearly, does not follow us is this: does this close any prospects for the european union or not? i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. at that point, yes, of course, there will be workarounds, the situation will not be perfect. but does that mean that the european union should necessarily be placed on the lowest common denominator, should make the least possible regulations in all respects and align itself with the least ambitious actor? we do not think that this will strengthen the european union's leadership in the world. it is also quite conceivable that the european union would be setting up this transaction on its own. simply because the capital flows that concern us, at some point, come from the european union, go elsewhere eventually, and return to the european union. as these flows leave and return, we have the possibility to demand traceability and to know whether or not they have paid this financial transaction tax. if they paid for it, no problem. if they haven't paid it, then we can charge an entry tax or an exit tax. we've done this for years with a common external tariff, it was in the real economy. financial globalisation requires us to do this now in the financial sphere of the economy and it is quite possible technically. what is needed is political will.
mr president, commissioner, i understand that you are the commissioner responsible for taxation and that in this area, in the context of strategy 2020, your contribution has been to propose an innovative taxation. to make taxation innovative, you must be bold and not sweep away all the intelligent and constructive work done by your predecessors. i note that the 2020 strategy does not even mention the harmonization of corporate tax, perhaps you left it in a drawer. i invite you to look at this a little more closely. but if you show the same courage when it comes to taxing financial transactions, we won't get very far. the european union and the commission to which you belong today seem to be looking to the conclusions of the g20. well, this taxation of financial transactions is in the g20 conclusions. we therefore ask you to implement them. and don't give us the argument that we have to wait for everybody else to do it, because when mr obama, under the influence of mr volcker, proposes a reform of his banking system, he turns his back 180 degrees on the conclusions of the g20! what may be good for america in terms of method, why would we forbid it? i have also noted that your colleague, commissioner michel barnier, has said that this reform may be adapted to american specificities and not european, that europe has its own way to go in the area of taxation of financial transactions. i did. we look forward to your bold and innovative proposals, commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, in the present crisis we have only two choices: either to make the people pay for the crisis, as has already begun to be done, with austerity plans, unemployment, tax increases, as in greece these days, or the other solution, which is to tax speculative capital movements and financial transactions. this would be a considerable revenue for the european economy and i believe it would be a weapon against the financial crisis we are experiencing today. it would also take courage to close tax havens. what i am saying is not revolutionary, because it is written in texts, the texts of the g20. a number of these principles have even been discussed and voted on here, but it is urgent that we issue proclamations without a day off. we must now put an end to this speculation which is killing people. indeed, several economists believe that if a small tax on financial transactions of 0.5% were to be introduced, the european union would have 500 billion euros at its disposal. this is money that could be used for a recovery based on work, training, research, wages, new industrial and agricultural policies that are environmentally friendly. we must now act, we must have the courage to vote in favour of the principle of such a tax and to implement it.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i have no doubt of your determination and you have already provided an answer to most of the questions we have been asking and raised in this resolution. i would simply point out that the difficulty of the subject lies in the fact that sepa is an initiative of payment institutions, mainly banking institutions, and that the purpose of the directive on payment services, for which i had the honour of being the rapporteur, was in particular to identify and define the legal instruments necessary to set up this european payment system. the aim was also to improve competition in the field of payments, with title ii providing for the creation of payment institutions which were to break the monopoly of banks. this complicated birth certainly explains some of the delay but it's very true, and you said, the payment service institutions, the banking institutions have certainly shown a little reluctance to implement this device. there's an explanation. it's the cost. to give you an idea - but you probably know this - in france, for example, the cost of implementing the sepa is higher than the cost of switching to the euro. there was also the question of interchange fees, which should be addressed with two elements in mind: the first, as you have mentioned, is that of compliance with the competition rules, but the second element, which should not be overlooked, is that payment services are a commercial activity of payment institutions and that, as such, fair remuneration is required. what was condemned was the possibility of unilaterally, arbitrarily, without reference, setting interbank margins which rightly appeared excessive. we are counting on you, commissioner, to ensure that this breakthrough, which has been the creation of the single market for payments, will be translated in the very near future into the establishment of european direct debit and credit transfer instruments.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur has pointed out, this proposal for a directive is in fact the result of a vote by parliament, as you have also pointed out, commissioner. however, my group remains extremely critical of this proposal, because it risks turning against those we want to support. in seeking to lighten the burdens on companies, we risk depriving them of the conditions of transparency and trust which are essential to their management and the dynamism of their activity. first of all, i think we need to be clear about thresholds and what are called micro entities. these are smes with more than 10 employees and a turnover of more than one million euros. this represents a very large majority of enterprises in all member states. it is true that they may be local and have little presence on the community market, but the fact remains that the need to present accounting rules will not be abolished for them and that these accounting rules will have to be faced with them whenever they want to deal with a banking organization, with partners or sometimes negotiate with the tax, economic and social institutions. at that point, accounting rules will be imposed on them and they may have to pay more than for regular accounting in order to meet criteria that they will not necessarily master. i do not see any progress in the fact that the obligation to keep accounts is then imposed outside any framework common to the european union. this is not simply a matter of competition, it is simply a matter of economic integration and community law, and equal treatment for all businesses in the european union. that said, it is obvious that simplification of accounting requirements for smes is a necessity. three other initiatives are in this direction: the proposal we are discussing today; the international standard ifrs; the european standard on financial reporting; the european standard on financial reporting; and the european standard on financial reporting. the commission has already made a number of proposals on the subject, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make proposals on this subject in the near future. these proposals were promised for 2010, and it seems that the deadline has been extended, but i do not think that this extension is a sufficient reason to rush and do half-hearted work, because these three proposals, if they share the same objective, may not have the same articulation and it seems to me that it would be preferable, commissioner, and more clear for businesses, to give them a single and comprehensive response that will enable them to reconcile the objective of simplifying obligations that everyone wants and the reality of life of small businesses that need it. the problem now is that the european commission is delaying in proposing a revision of these directives and that is detrimental to our thinking. i therefore call on the european commission to speed up the dialogue on the exemption issue which is currently dividing both the european institutions and the business community and to carry out an impact study.
(answer to the question on the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) mr president, i understand the question. if this proposal is rejected, the proposal will have to be returned to the site and then an impact study can be considered. as i said, we are not opposed to simplifying the accounting rules for small businesses, especially since there has been such a pile of directives and measures that we need to put things straight and clarify the situation. we simply think that this proposal does not simplify things but creates insecurity for businesses.
mr president, commissioner, i agree with many of the arguments put forward by marianne thyssen, othmar karas and mrs castex. however, i ask myself the following question: after the compromise that has been reached, which leaves national options open, should we block this directive, which is a signal to microenterprises, a positive signal to simplify? commissioner, if i may, i would like to make a proposal to you from normand. i would say to you, firstly, that we must support klaus lehne's proposal here and you yourself should take into account what has just been said on the amendments to the other directives, so that very quickly we can achieve harmonization, in particular of the accounting rules for small enterprises, with a european system in this field.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all say that it is a great pleasure to see this debate on the internal market and consumer protection as a priority debate this morning. in the context of the economic crisis, mr barnier, the internal market is an asset which we must absolutely make use of. in this internal market, of course, consumption is perhaps the most important driver that needs to be supported in the very short term. but not just any kind of consumption. we need consumption that prepares for the future, that is in line with the challenges of sustainable development, responsible consumption that does not always seek to promote discount products that are supposed to boost the purchasing power of families but which, in fact, are often of poor quality and result from almost systematic relocations of their manufacture outside the union. we know who the main victims are: the consumers with the lowest incomes, the most vulnerable consumers. in short, we must build new trust between consumers and businesses, particularly those in the retail sector, in order to strengthen and develop the internal market of our union. i would like to send a very clear message to the commission. yes, mr dalli, we will support you, but we are concerned about the risk of the division of powers between you. we fear that this will lead to a fragmentation of your responsibilities. at the same time we will be extremely vigilant to ensure that you really work together in a coherent way. we expect that the interests of consumers will be taken into account in all the policies of the european union, in the spirit of the lisbon treaty. i will give you an example immediately which involves not only mr barnier and mr dalli but also mrs reding. it is time to act on the green paper on collective redress. we expect you to move forward on this matter. since you have mentioned it, mr dalli, i would like to ask you if you already have a timetable on this subject. we also expect you to invent a new specific european form so that these collective actions avoid the all too well-known deviations of the american system, so that we invent something that serves everyone, that does not oppose the interests of everyone. i would like to congratulate our colleague, mrs hedh, on her very comprehensive report. i would like to stress the emphasis which she rightly places in her report on consumer education, which is essential and must be done throughout life, which is not just a matter for the young child but also for the consumer, as products change and marketing forces become more sophisticated. (the president cut the speaker off) i would just like to say in conclusion that the indicators, the scoreboards, are very good - that's the former statistician economist speaking - but they do not replace the political will which, in turn, should be the real mobilization of our action.
mr president, madam president, i thank mrs thun for the seriousness of her work and the overall quality of her report. as the fictitious rapporteur for the s&d group, i am pleased that the vote in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has allowed a number of ideas to be incorporated into the final report which we would like to see appear. the first is the need to adopt, in the context of the completion of the internal market scoreboard, a more qualitative approach to identify the causes of the transposition deficit. we do not underestimate the usefulness of figures and the pressure that comes with highlighting the union's good and bad pupils, but we believe that the commission should be more ambitious and try to make this table a tool to understand the difficulties faced by member states in the transposition process. we all know that the lack of transposition is sometimes due not to the reluctance of the member states but to the poor quality of the european legislation to be transposed. the second element i stressed is the need to strengthen the dialogue between the commission and the member states throughout the transposition period. the more exchanges of information take place upstream, the more the risk of non-transposition or incorrect transposition can be prevented. however, there is one problem with the report: it is paragraph 10, which was not originally included in mrs thun's draft report. this paragraph proposes the creation of a compatibility test for all proposed new legislative acts. we are strongly opposed to this because we believe that such a test is at best unnecessary and at worst dangerous. the examination of possible barriers to the internal market is already carried out in the context of the impact studies carried out by the european commission with each new legislative proposal. we would not want this internal market test to be used as a pretext for calling into question social or environmental progress. we cannot accept it in that case.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am glad to be able to bring these three reports, which concern the daily lives of citizens, to the fore in a priority debate. i would also like to congratulate our rapporteurs on their work and i would like to mention the solvit network in particular. the network is now 8 years old, has solved many problems efficiently and is, however, totally unknown. how many times have i had to refer people to this network that they did not even know existed, even though this tool could reinforce the image of a europe that protects citizens' rights? i have to say - and i am very happy that mr barnier is here - that i understand that the government in my country is not really promoting it. the increase in the number of cases would therefore be very difficult to manage for the only trainee who, currently in 2010, is in charge of the solvit network in france, a country, it is true, with only 60 million inhabitants and which is only the second eu state in terms of the number of cases submitted in 2009. the rate of resolution is miraculously good, but the time lag is deplorable, with an average of 15 weeks before treatment, 5 weeks beyond the maximum expected. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to provide real financial and human resources and to carry out major information campaigns, particularly for companies, which are not submitting more cases in 2009 than in 2004.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the new online problem-solving network for cases of misapplication of internal market legislation, called solvit, is a very effective system in that it allows for redress without formal proceedings within approximately 10 weeks. the network, which was set up in 2002, saw its workload increase by 22% in 2008. although the dispute resolution rate remains fairly high at 83%, the number of cases resolved is falling. it is time, eight years after its creation, to consider strengthening this institution by giving it the means to function effectively. these new measures would help european citizens and businesses to assert their rights, in particular in the recognition of qualifications, social and residence rights. i therefore support the idea that not only must solvit staff be more numerous in the member states but that support measures and training should be put in place to enable this staff to function in the most efficient way possible. it seems to me that it is essential that governments and ourselves, as elected representatives of our constituencies, promote the solvit network, which saved €32.6 million in 2008. furthermore, the use of this new instrument would limit excessive recourse to the judicial system. i therefore call on the member states to transpose all the european directives and to make citizens and businesses aware of their rights within the internal market through media and national information campaigns. in conclusion, on behalf of my political group in the committee on petitions, i would like to see more cooperation between solvit and our committee in order to facilitate the work of the latter.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a sea of difficulties, steps are being taken. this is the case with this text, which has just been very well explained by all the members, irrespective of the benches on which they sit, and which concerns all third-country nationals who are legally resident - i would remind you - on european territory. it is high time that this text was adopted, it is high time that the freedom of movement of third-country nationals within the union was enshrined, and i am glad that we are now at the point where we are laying a new foundation stone for the construction of a europe of freedoms, in an area which we want to make more and more secure. it's both obvious and a step forward. it is obvious, as has been pointed out, that there is no major controversy about this text and the small number of amendments explains why we all want to build a europe where no one is stuck in one state without being able to discover the rest of the european area. and it is a good step forward, because it represents rights for third country nationals, students, researchers and others, who live in the territory of the union. finally, to conclude, this will obviously promote the external perception of europe as a single area, a united europe, a common space, and it will forge european culture and identity beyond our borders.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted in favour of mr böge's reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, thinking first of all of the workers who are losing their jobs. but also with a certain unease. because, to tell you the truth, this fund is a plaster on a wooden leg in the face of the magnitude of the social consequences of your irresponsible policy of ultra-barterism. it sometimes gives the impression, although you defend yourself against it, that the european taxpayer's money is being used to finance the policies of relocation or restructuring of large companies, while at the same time it is allowing europe in brussels to say that it is 'in solidarity' with the unemployed it creates. another reason for our unease is the thresholds required to qualify for this fund, particularly in terms of the number of redundancies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as if the employees of mediumsized, small and very small firms, the small bosses who leave the door unlocked, were once again the great forgotten ones of economic and social policy.
in writing. the internal market, with its more than 1 500 often complex texts, appears to citizens as a rather incomprehensible "big machine", which is not always properly implemented in the member states (i am thinking in particular of the recognition of professional qualifications). solvit is therefore a valuable tool: a genuine helpdesk for consumers and businesses on the single market, this cooperation network has been working for several years on an informal basis to solve problems related to incorrect application of internal market legislation by the authorities. i voted in favour of the solvit report. yet, despite its excellent success rate (more than 80% of cases are successful), and despite being a quick, extrajudicial and free solution to obtain redress, solvit remains very little known to the general public. we need to make it more known. finally, i regret that in some member states, including my own, the solvit centre is also badly funded and staffed. i think it is time for the member states to assess the usefulness of these centres and provide them with the means to function properly.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this regulation by a very large majority of 562 votes in favour, 29 against and 51 abstentions. from now on, any third-country national who holds a long-stay visa issued by a member state will be able to travel to the other member states for 3 months in any 6-month period, under the same conditions as the holder of a residence permit. this was a measure expected by many students and researchers, including those participating in community exchange programmes (erasmus mundus). this is a step forward in improving the attractiveness of the union as a destination for students, academics and researchers from third countries. and it is a reminder of the european parliament's request to the member states to move towards the future introduction of a specific visa for students on exchange programmes. however, one regrettable fact is that the united kingdom, ireland and denmark are not participating in the adoption of this regulation and will not be subject to its application, even though these countries are very attractive to foreign students and researchers in the schengen area.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against mr coelho's report. it is irresponsible to allow holders of a long-stay visa, i.e. more than six months, to automatically enjoy freedom of movement in all the schengen states, as if they were holders of a residence card. your examples are fallacious. whether it is a student who wants to visit the european capitals (except london, dublin and copenhagen, outside the schengen area!), a researcher whose work is expected to last less than a year, or expatriates who do not have ad hoc residence and work permits, all this is marginal and all this is just a pretext. in fact, this measure is a further denial of the sovereign right of states to decide who may or may not, under what conditions and for how long, enter their territory. it is the same as, by standardizing rights, emptying long-stay visas of all meaning in favour of a kind of automatic resident status. a status granted when you want to come to europe for more than 3 months and for something other than tourism. this is unacceptable.
in writing. i supported the coelho report on the free movement of long-term visa holders because, behind the questions of administrative formalities, it is important in my opinion, for example, that young foreigners who come to study in our countries are not locked up in a territory, but can have the freedom to move from one country to another, both for their studies and to discover the diversity and richness of european culture. contrary to those who use the scarecrow of security and the fight against illegal immigration, it is the concern for the development of a knowledge society in europe, as elsewhere, that we must defend here.
in writing. i would first like to thank carlos coelho for the quality of his report and for the real expertise he brings to all his visa policy issues. the adoption of this regulation is a necessity and an urgency. this is a necessity because the extremely reprehensible practice of member states no longer converting long-stay visas into residence permits leads to absurd situations whereby any third-country national legally present in the territory of the union on the basis of a d visa is prevented from travelling to the other member states of the schengen area. this practice creates unnecessary obstacles to mobility within the schengen area and goes against the very philosophy of the schengen acquis. the adoption of this text is also urgent in view of the forthcoming entry into force of the community visa code, which abolishes the d + c visas. while maintaining a high level of security within the schengen area through the obligation to query the sis when processing d visa applications, this report provides a fair and balanced solution to situations that should not arise in the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by sophie in 't veld, which welcomes the commission's 2008 competition report. i share this positive view, but it is a turning point in the commission's approach which must be emphasized. in this report, the commission explains that it 'places consumer concerns at the centre of its competition activities' and that it 'considers it essential that the main objective of competition policy be to optimise consumer welfare'. i'm glad you did! finally, would the commission act in full accordance with article 12 of the lisbon treaty, which states that consumer protection is to be taken into account in the definition and implementation of other union policies? i also encourage the commission to continue the careful dialogue it has decided to establish between its departments, consumers and the associations representing them. in this respect, it is good that a consumer relations unit was set up in the competition dg in 2008. we now ask for a full report on the activities of this unit, so that we can better judge its usefulness.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against the von thun und hohenstein report. this parliament has its eyes fixed on the number of directives transposed, the famous internal market scoreboard. no one ever questions the intrinsic quality of this legislation, the real necessity or relevance of the 90 000 pages of text that you call the community acquis, or the 1 700 or so directives on the internal market. nor is there any real concern whether the objectives set out in the adoption of these texts have been achieved, whether the impact assessments have been correct, or whether the principles of subsidiarity or proportionality have been respected. all malfunctions are deemed to be the responsibility of the member states, which nevertheless have less and less room for manoeuvre in adapting these texts to their national situation, the more the smallest details are fixed, whereas the treaties indicate an obligation of results and not of means. a little introspection and self-criticism would do the european institutions the most good.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr barroso, if my group and most of us here have worked hard for years for the lisbon treaty and if it has entered into force for more than three months now , it is in particular so that europe has a policy worthy of the name on the international scene. are we on the right track in this respect? i ask you, mr president. how can we ensure that the 500 million europeans have their voices heard loud and clear? they have been asking for it for years and it is high time that europe should assert its ideals and values at the highest level. finally, the external action service provided for in the lisbon treaty is expected to be established in the coming weeks and months, and this parliament intends to be closely associated with its design. as the budgetary authority on an equal footing with the council, the european parliament will in any case be a co-decision-maker both on the amendment of the staff regulations of the officials concerned and on the financial regulation. mr president, my group attaches particular importance to the fact that this european external action service is fully accountable politically and budgetarily. i'd be happy to hear your views on this.
author. - mr president, the fundamental rights agency reports that roma face all kinds of discrimination in all areas, whether it is access to employment, health, education or housing. they are thus the most discriminated minority in europe. in 2009, for example, on average one in four roma was the victim of a crime against the person, including assaults, threats and serious harassment, at least once in the last 12 months, while at the same time, one in three roma were arrested by the police on average four times in the last 12 months. their marginalized situation is further fuelled by a lack of awareness of their own rights. this situation, which affects nearly ten million people in the heart of the european union, which now has a charter of fundamental rights and will soon be a signatory to the european convention on human rights, poses a serious challenge to the policy of non-discrimination and the effective exercise of rights, both at eu level and in the member states. it took the racist violence in italy in december 2007 for a large-scale, high-level european mobilisation to finally culminate in the organisation of the first european summit in september 2008. however, the call for an eu framework strategy on roma integration, including a roma inclusion directive, has still not come to fruition. member states which maintain - like france and others - transitional measures for access to their markets for bulgarians and romanians are penalising the roma in the first place and must lift them as soon as possible as a sign of political will. finally, the member states must stop negotiating bilateral readmission agreements with kosovo, which lead to the return of roma to lead-contaminated camps in northern mitrovica, as the council of europe's commissioner for human rights, mr hammarberg, has shown. as for the european commission, i would like to remind it of the european parliament's resolution of 11 march 2009 on the social situation of roma. in this year of the fight against poverty, i believe we could finally decide to make the best use of our instruments and our structural funds to remedy this serious situation.
mr president, the roma issue is very much alive in my region, the west of france. in nantes, for example, more than 1,000 roma are being driven from one place to another because of a lack of land agreed to accommodate them. the few municipalities that have invested in the reception of roma, such as rezé, indre, in the nantes agglomeration, are completely overwhelmed, without any support from the public authorities. the most willing, the most open mayors face enormous difficulties. the answers can't be local. they must be global. the inclusion of roma must be integrated into all eu policies to put an end to the discrimination suffered by these european citizens. i would also like to draw attention to the specific situation of women. the problems of roma women are particularly acute, for example in terms of domestic violence or unwanted pregnancies. in france, for example, one roma woman in two - 43 percent - has already had an abortion by the age of 22, according to médecins du monde. the average age of first pregnancy is 17. only 10% of roma women use contraception. the european union must therefore integrate the gender perspective into all studies and legislation concerning roma. education must be a major priority. action is urgently needed to raise awareness of the roma community's fundamental rights and facilitate their access to public services. i hope that at the second roma summit the european union will show its willingness to deal comprehensively with the roma issue.
mr president, some people are complaining about the difficulties and the slow implementation of the directives in the first railway package. i'm glad you did. in my country, in my region, we are fighting with the railway workers' unions, with the users' committees, so that these vile directives are not implemented and thus go to the dustbin of history. in france, one of the issues at stake in the regional elections is precisely the blocking by the regional councils of the implementation of the osp regulation on the opening up of regional rail transport to competition. we do not want a two-speed railway. private companies, the markets for priority-seat business trains, comfortable, fast and accessible by their fares only to the rich; the public, second-class trains for the poor, the elderly, the unsafe, the uncomfortable. every day that passes proves that the separation between infrastructure and transport activity imposed by the directives to allow for open competition is a technical and organizational inefficiency, costly for the taxpayer and the user. if it serves the large groups, it disrupts public transport, it is responsible for the deterioration of the state of the network and of safety. the directives mentioned are also job-destroying and constitute a plundering of the common property of the people for the benefit of private interests.
member of the commission. − mr president, i understand members’ concerns about the acta negotiations. let me first recall that we are negotiating this agreement in order to improve the protection of ‘made in europe’ innovation in all areas where intellectual property rights can be breached. if we want to remain a competitive economy, we will have to rely on innovation, creativity and brand exclusivity. that is one of our main competitive advantages on the world market. so we need the tools to ensure that this competitive advantage is adequately protected in our main export markets. we have tried to raise this issue for several years in multilateral organisations like the wto or the world intellectual property organisation. those attempts have been systematically blocked by other countries. so, despite our preference for a truly global solution, we have had no other choice but to engage with a coalition of the willing. the final agreement will only be binding on those countries that have signed, although we would of course be happy if more countries, and especially emerging economies, could subsequently join. as i said during my hearing, those international negotiations are confidential. that is not unusual. negotiations are about seeking an agreed outcome and require a minimum confidentiality in order for each party to feel comfortable to make concessions and/or to try out options before finally settling on an agreement. on the other hand, i agree that parliament needs to be adequately informed about the evolution of the negotiations. we are doing our utmost in two areas: to inform parliament, and to convince our negotiating partners to agree to more transparency. firstly, as regards information to parliament, we have provided you with the negotiating guidelines, full reports on the negotiating rounds and, in general, all the relevant documents originating from dg trade that have been shared with the member states through the trade policy committee. we have done this in accordance with the framework agreement. also, acta has been discussed several times in the committee on international trade in the last three years. let me add to this that the commission organised two stakeholder conferences on acta in june 2008 and april 2009, which were open to all citizens, industry, ngos and the media. another public conference will be organised on 22 march in brussels. i understand that you may feel that this is not sufficient for you to have a clear picture on where we stand in these negotiations. i have instructed my services to provided dedicated briefings with interested meps on all aspects of the negotiations. they will be at your disposal for discussion before and after each further negotiating round. secondly, i realise that the best way for you to know what is going on in these negotiations would be to read the draft negotiating text. this would give you a very clear picture of where exactly we are in those negotiations. as you probably know, there is an agreement amongst acta parties that the negotiating text can only be made public if all parties agree. the commission is in favour of releasing the negotiating documents as soon as possible. however, a few acta negotiating parties remain opposed to early release. i strongly disagree with their approach but i cannot unilaterally breach a confidentiality commitment. my credibility as a negotiator is at stake. nevertheless, i will see to it that, at the next negotiating round in april, the commission vigorously pushes its negotiating partners to agree to releasing the text, and i will raise parliament’s concerns bilaterally with acta parties, like the us, whom i am scheduled to meet before then. it is in the interests of all that everyone has a clear idea of what exactly these negotiations are about and even more importantly, also of what they are not about. finally, as regards your concerns on the substance, i would like to recall the main principles that are driving the commission in the negotiation of this agreement. first, the objective is to address large-scale infringements of intellectual property rights which have a significant commercial impact. it will not lead to the limitation of civil liberties or harassment of consumers. secondly, acta is only about enforcement of intellectual property rights. it will not include provisions modifying substantive intellectual property law such as the creation of new rights, the scope of protection or duration. however, it should set minimum rules on how innovators can enforce their rights in courts, at the borders or over the internet. for example, a european fashion designer, when confronted with counterfeiting of his creations outside europe, can ensure that his rights are adequately safeguarded abroad. thirdly, acta must and will remain in line with the acquis communautaire, including the current level of harmonisation of ipr enforcement, the e-commerce directive, the telecoms regulatory framework and, last but not least, the applicable eu legislation on data protection and piracy. there will be no harmonisation or changes to eu legislation through the back door. in this sense acta will have no impact on european citizens, since it will not create new obligations for the eu and no need for implementing legislation. however, it will provide our innovators increased protection in overseas markets. i am aware of the concerns expressed by some of you about the introduction of a compulsory ‘three strike’ rule or graduated response to fight copyright infringements and internet piracy. let me be very clear on this so there is no room for ambiguity. the three strike rule or graduated response systems are not compulsory in europe. different eu countries have different approaches and we want to keep that flexibility while fully respecting fundamental rights, freedoms and civil liberties. the eu does not support, and will not accept, acta creating an obligation to disconnect people from the internet because of illegal downloads. similarly, we will make sure that acta does not hamper access to generic medicines. i know there has been some controversy on the impact of eu customs legislation on trade in generic medicines. as i have already told you at my hearing, that problem will be addressed in the upcoming revision of our customs legislation. finally, you also asked about an impact assessment on acta. in fact, considering that the commission will not go beyond the acquis communautaire, we took as our basis the studies made for the 2004 directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and for the 2005 proposal for a directive on criminal enforcement of ipr (which was not adopted). we also considered the conclusions of the 2008 oecd study on the economic impact of counterfeiting and piracy. that study values the economy of physical internationally traded counterfeits at usd 250 billion, which is to say more than the individual gdp of 150 countries. it also contains an exhaustive analysis of the piracy of digital contents. in short, i hear your concerns and will defend them to the best of my ability. your confidence and support will help me carry this important task forward.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty we have new powers which we want to see respected from now on. we have therefore listened to you and we ask you to set up a continuous and transparent consultation procedure on acta, ensuring that the european parliament and the citizens represented therein are regularly and fully informed of the state of progress of the negotiations, while respecting the confidentiality clauses which, as you have just pointed out, are linked to the agreement. we would like to have access to the text and the summary of the negotiations today in order to be fully involved in the legislative process. in addition, my group and i urge you to continue negotiations to achieve a multilateral treaty that improves the standards of enforcement and respect for intellectual property rights, which emerging economies such as china could eventually subscribe to. counterfeiting is a scourge, an underground activity, a factor of unfair competition which, besides being a danger to the body, society and the economy, is also a danger to the mind. by depriving authors and companies that have invested years in research and development of the fruits of their work, it discourages others from pursuing their efforts to innovate and create. as we know, this is the heart of the european union's competitiveness. finally, i believe that with the development of our digital environment, we cannot deny that counterfeiting has become intangible. i therefore remain convinced that it is possible to hold internet actors, and particularly those who misuse copyright, accountable without compromising respect for fundamental rights and civil liberties. let us find that balance between rights and duties together.
mr president, commissioner, we are all against counterfeiting and piracy. but, commissioner, you have just told us a fairy tale to justify your negotiating an international agreement behind the backs of the peoples and the representatives of the peoples. i would remind you, commissioner, that article 218 of the treaty of lisbon provides, and i quote: 'the european parliament shall be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedure' in the context of the negotiation or conclusion of international agreements. with acta, we are exactly in that situation, so keep your own word, your own treaty! we can only be concerned about basic freedoms. the interpretation of a fault - piracy - and its sanction would no longer be delegated to a judicial authority but to companies that provide services to internet users. on the other hand, tomorrow the customs services of the countries which have signed the agreement will be allowed to search telephones, laptops and mobile phones under the pretext of fighting piracy, just as swift, for example, claimed to fight terrorism. but remember, commissioner, parliament has beaten you on swift and it will do so on acta if necessary. the fight against counterfeiting and piracy is therefore being combined with the infringement of privacy, intellectual property and, in the case of medicines, the right to health. commissioner, put that agreement on the table immediately.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: the way in which the negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement are being conducted is not acceptable to the european parliament. as a new co-legislator on this subject, the treaty of lisbon now guarantees us the right to complete information at the same time as the council. the documents which have been leaked so far have shown us that this dimension was not respected in any way. and what about the background? the deception market that seems to be offered to internet service providers is that if they agree to cooperate in the systematic monitoring of content on their network, their non-responsibility in this matter would be maintained. otherwise, they would be exposed to legal proceedings by the right holders and would be systematically punished. such a reversal seems to me extremely dangerous, because it would call into question the community acquis, not only on the principle of mere conduct, of the e-commerce directive, but also with regard to respect for the fundamental rights of citizens, as recalled recently in our debate on the telecom package. i would like to conclude by recalling that this house has already shown its commitment to these principles by rejecting the swift agreement. i have no doubt in his ability to do it again. i would therefore like to stress the importance of the resolution we are debating tonight. i welcome the work of our coordinator, kader arif, and all the negotiators in the committee on international trade, who have made sure that the signal which will be given by the european parliament tomorrow is extremely symbolic, because it is unanimous.
in writing. while parliament has been asking for access to the texts for months, acta is being negotiated in the utmost secrecy, behind the backs of the citizens and their representatives, this is unacceptable! the commission itself is losing its latin. it tells us that it has already sent us the documents and at the same time it will ask the council to publish everything: who are you kidding? we are not talking about transparency here, but we would like to remind the commission and the council that they will have to obtain a consistent opinion from parliament at the end of the negotiations. the leaks we have received give the impression of a trojan horse: under the pretext of a perfectly legitimate fight against counterfeiting, the member states, and the french government in the lead, want to pass a text that could undermine access to medicine, freedom of expression, net neutrality and the legal liability of its intermediaries. parliament will oppose any challenge to the acquis communautaire. if the commission and the council do not change their strategy, we will protect the individual freedoms of our fellow citizens by rejecting acta as we have already done with the swift agreement.
deputy author. - mr president, our debate today is motivated by three aspects of the system of generalised tariff preferences. first, the current regulation expires on 31 december 2011. in order for the european parliament to be able to exercise the powers it has under the lisbon treaty, the commission must give us a draft of a new regulation by june 2010 at the latest. secondly, the functioning of the gsp+ is anything but perfect. who decides the list of beneficiary countries and on what criteria? it's a miracle who is actually in charge of implementing the 27 international conventions on social and environmental matters that are mandatory for gsp+ beneficiaries? we don't know that. what has been the outcome of the gsp+? is it sustainable development, diversification of production, creation of decent jobs, or on the contrary, the proliferation of short-term contracts, the increase in abandoned farms, the concentration of large property for export? we don't know that. so a thorough reform of the regulation is needed to ensure democratic control and to ensure that the measures taken achieve the desired objectives. but the real reason for the debate tonight is the sad case of colombia. until now, the commission has refused to open an inquiry into the very serious human rights violations in that country. this is a matter for the rules. it is inconceivable, because of the values espoused by the european union, that in the pursuit of profit in the dairy, automotive, pharmaceutical, telecommunications, banking sectors, for our own multinationals, the eu abandons the conditionality of the gsp and that it rushes, these days, into a free trade agreement with colombia. it is a mortal blow to the trade unions, the peasants, the colombian consumers, the colombian national industrial production.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam high representative, the report on the implementation of the european security strategy which we are presenting today is an annual document of parliament which takes stock of the progress of european security and defence policy and makes proposals to improve the effectiveness and visibility of this policy. this year's report is in a very special context which should make it a force for good. this particular context is marked by the conjunction of three major cycles. the first concerns the ten years of the european security and defence policy, which we celebrated at the end of 2009. the past decade has shown that europe can conduct civil and military operations in more than 23 theatres of crisis. this fundamental achievement can be further enhanced. it shows that there is a demand for europe and the union's institutional and operational political capacity to meet these challenges. the second important stage is, of course, and president albertini has just mentioned it, the implementation of the treaty of lisbon. the change in security and defence goes far beyond a strictly semantic adjustment. the esdp is becoming the common security and defence policy, the csdp, and it must acquire a new dimension. the treaty has enriched the range of instruments and fields of action for security and defence policy, in particular with the inclusion of the clauses on assistance, solidarity, permanent structured cooperation, but above all with the creation of the european external action service and the creation of your post as high representative, vice-president of the commission. finally, the third major event which marks the context in which this report was drawn up is that nato, which for 21 of the 27 members of the union remains the essential reference for the collective security of the european continent, is currently conducting the review of its strategic concept and that this reflection by nato must also lead us, the union, to define better the conditions of this partnership, which remains fundamental. in this context, the aim of the report is not so much to establish a doctrine as to provide you with a road map which is bound to evolve, for all the new institutions which are coming into being and which must learn to work together. the aim is to make the union more credible, more effective and more visible in the field of security and defence. in this respect, greater responsibility for these sensitive areas by the european parliament is essential to give full legitimacy to a policy whose primary objective is to ensure the security of european citizens. the report emphasizes the following points: firstly, it is important to remember that the european security strategy and the common security and defence policy are primarily intended to serve the european citizens, to guarantee and improve their security. this political ambition is not superfluous, it is not a flirtation. it corresponds to a need for our continent to work for its own security but also to contribute to the stability of the world around us, to deal with the crises and threats that are developing in our environment. beyond the traditional armed conflicts that persist in our immediate environment, europe must be able to state its interests and defend them against new threats, particularly piracy and cybercrime. we also felt it was important to stress the unparalleled added value of the union in crisis management, thanks to the variety of responses it provides and the balance it strikes in each of its operations between the civilian and military dimensions. i also reject the criticisms of the militarization of the union's security and defence policy which some people may make in this connection. i am a firm believer in the complementarity of the civil and military instruments at the disposal of the union, and the recent crisis in haiti, which you visited - and i believe you have seen this good cooperation - is a testament to the necessary intertwining of civil and military means to deal with natural disasters and major crises. we have been particularly keen to review all these operations, to highlight what we consider to be their strengths, but also, sometimes, their shortcomings - we must admit them in order to improve things. we also wanted to highlight several strategic regions for the security of the union and to urge the council and the commission to accelerate the implementation of comprehensive strategies, in particular for the horn of africa and the afghanistan/pakistan area. in the field of capabilities - both civilian and military - which is a crucial issue for the credibility of our policy, the challenge is to improve the union's responsiveness. we must be able to mobilise the material and human resources available to the states more quickly and more effectively. but we must also be able, through a high-performing security and defence industry which brings together invaluable technological know-how and which also represents hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe, to provide ourselves with equipment programmes corresponding to these projection needs. the europe of industry and defence has begun to organize itself on our continent through the defence package. the question of industrial and commercial cooperation with third countries should be dealt with promptly, particularly in view of the recent difficulties encountered by european industries in gaining access to the american market, for example. this is a brief summary, which is too brief, of the priorities in this report, which are the challenges you will have to face. parliament is prepared to play its full role, its full positive and constructive role, in helping you to succeed in this ambition which is a common ambition. i should also like to take this opportunity to thank all the political groups who have contributed to the report. we have all had very good cooperation in maintaining a high level of ambition, while taking into account, of course, the characteristics of each of our groups. i also take this opportunity, madam high representative, to address the issue of nonproliferation with you today. on the eve of the non-proliferation treaty review conference in may, the european parliament wanted to take stock of the union's commitment to non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament; this is the meaning of the oral questions that have been passed on to you and which you will answer later. the international context seems to offer new opportunities on the eve of this review conference. first, president obama strongly affirmed his ambition for a world without nuclear weapons and his commitment to actively seek ratification of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty by the united states. secondly, the conclusion with russia of a new agreement to succeed the start agreement seems to be on track and, finally, we have the launching of negotiations for a new disarmament treaty which would prohibit the production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons. as regards the reduction of nuclear arsenals, the priority is clearly to continue the reduction of the two main arsenals, that of russia and the united states, which are generally considered to still possess almost 95% of all nuclear weapons on the planet. we therefore welcome the commitment of presidents medvedev and obama to conclude a new reduction agreement very soon. how does the union intend to support these efforts and cooperate with the united states and russia in this context? the union must also be able to meet the challenges to the non-proliferation regime, and more particularly those we face in the face of the two major proliferation crises of iran and north korea, which remain the main threats to international security. is the union still fully and effectively engaged in resolving these crises, particularly in the case of iran? we are waiting for your instructions on this important matter, madam high representative. the union also has a role to play in promoting cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. you know this is a big challenge. what actions are being taken in this context and what is your strategy in this respect? finally, parliament hopes that the union will be able to make a strong case at the next npt review conference. the adoption of a new, ambitious and balanced common position of the union is essential if the union is to defend its position. what is the situation in the member states?
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the speeches which, once again, have enriched the debate, enriched this report. i would like to reassure those who have expressed doubts, sometimes suspicions, that this report could open the door to more competition, more competition, particularly with nato, or even isolation. that is not the case at all, i do not believe it at all, and it is not in the treaty, quite the contrary. you can believe a french mep who has campaigned vigorously for his country's return to the integrated structures of nato. when we talk about strategic autonomy, what is the idea that we are developing, the policy that has been developed for the last ten years? it is the ability of the european union to intervene through civilian and military missions, or military, in areas where other organisations, including nato, cannot. nato could not have intervened to end the conflict in georgia, where there is no un, no osce. nato has not intervened earlier than we have in the horn of africa to put an end to phenomena which threaten our security interests. strategic autonomy is also the ability to intervene with a range of instruments that only we have: civil and military instruments, legal instruments, financial instruments, development instruments. the european union is best placed to develop this comprehensive approach in crisis areas. our strategic autonomy also means our ability, if necessary, not to intervene, either in unilateral military adventures or - and this has been pointed out by several austrian colleagues - because there are neutral countries among us and we respect these statutes. this is what european defence and security is all about. this is the strategic autonomy we are developing through this policy. and let us never forget where this european security and defence policy comes from. it comes from a tragic, bloody failure: the balkans in the 1990s, where the european union was unable to face a major security challenge on its own continent. let's not forget that. our european citizens do not forget this and they would not forgive us if we gave up our ambition to see europe play a role on the international stage. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i read out the oral amendment: 'invites the commission to continue the negotiations on acta and to limit them to the current european system of enforcing intellectual property rights to combat counterfeiting'.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to table an oral amendment to this amendment, deleting two parts of the amendment, namely the words 'by the colombian army' and 'on colombia'. the amendment reads as follows: 'considers that the alarming news of the murder of trade unionists in colombia, as well as the news recently received and now confirmed by the colombian attorney general, that mass graves containing hundreds of bodies of people killed in recent years have been discovered in the macarena region, constitute sufficient grounds for the commission to open an investigation in accordance with the regulation.'
mr president, beyond the content of this resolution, i would also like to challenge its principle. the french, flemish, hungarian, german and austrian patriots are constantly being persecuted, judicially, professionally and politically, and this is done with indifference or even with the support of this parliament which claims to be teaching lessons to almost the whole world and especially outside its borders. last week, for example, we voted on a resolution on ukraine, with a provision which many ukrainian patriots rightly find insulting to their national hero, stepan bandera. it is true that the soviet union, in extremely difficult circumstances, tried to find its way between two totalitarian systems, hitler's totalitarian system and the soviet totalitarian system. he is nevertheless a hero to many ukrainians, who feel legitimately humiliated by the majority in this parliament. it turns out that national heroes have generally fought their neighbors. is my friend nick griffin, a true british patriot, taking it for granted that we regard joan of arc as a national heroine? no, you can't! i would personally like our parliament to express the same reservations about the heroes of other foreign countries.
in writing. i voted against the lehne report because the removal of accounting requirements for these micro-entities will not reduce the real costs of business and will create a high degree of legal uncertainty. such an exemption would jeopardise the trust necessary for the relations of very small enterprises (ves) with third parties (customers, suppliers, banks). it is necessary to maintain secure information for obtaining credits. without an accounting framework, bankers and other interested parties, who will always need information, may find a reason to reduce their credit. this will be detrimental to the ldcs.
in writing. the proposal before us is to allow member states to exempt certain undertakings (micro-entities) from the obligation to draw up and publish their annual accounts. i am of course a strong supporter of reducing the administrative burden on businesses, especially smes and smes. but the commission's proposal is seriously lacking in its purpose: firstly, it is not clear that the proposed system would actually reduce the administrative burden on these companies (the statistical information currently collected will have to be collected by other means), and secondly, this text, which leaves it to each member state to decide whether or not to make use of the exemption, risks fragmenting the internal market (in the highly probable case that some member states will make use of the exemption and others will not). this proposal should have been withdrawn and the question of simplifying the administrative burden for these small enterprises (company law, simplification of financial reporting requirements, accounting, auditing, etc.) should have been addressed in the context of the overall revision of the fourth and seventh company law directives, which is due to be published shortly. i therefore voted against mr lehne's report on the annual accounts of certain types of company (micro-entities).
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr lehne on the annual accounts of micro-entities because, although i believe the european commission's impact assessment is incomplete and insufficient, i wanted to make it clear that i am in favour of simplifying the accounting requirements for very small enterprises. it is not economically and socially consistent for a very small enterprise to be subject to the same administrative constraints as much larger enterprises. very small enterprises represent more than 85% of european enterprises, and thus the bulk of our economy, which is in urgent need of vitality. i therefore think that a harmonised reduction in their obligations is a good thing, but it must be ensured that they do not hinder their access to credit. the thinking should therefore be conducted in a global manner, taking into account the whole economic environment surrounding very small enterprises, their relations with banks, with management centres at the french level and of course with their customers. let us not always think in terms of obligations but let us trust our contractors, our artisans, who need us to lighten their administrative burdens.
in writing. i voted against this proposal because it risks, in the long run, turning against smes, depriving them of the conditions of transparency and trust necessary for their management and the dynamism of their activity by reducing their access to credit. i think that we cannot demand more transparency from the banks, blaming them for the lack of transparency in the financial markets which led to the current crisis, and at the same time want to remove the transparency tools which are indispensable for the economic actors themselves and for the economic regulatory policies which we want to pursue at european level. however, simplification of accounting requirements for smes, and in particular for the smallest of them, remains an imperative necessity. the european commission must urgently review the fourth and seventh accounting directives, as it is the only body capable of providing a comprehensive, fair and consistent response.
in writing. i voted against the proposal for a directive on the annual accounts of certain types of companies adopted on wednesday 10 march 2010. while i am in favour of a significant reduction in the regulatory burden on smes, i nevertheless believe that accounting requirements are also essential management tools for their external partners (banks, customers, suppliers, etc.). the proposal ultimately risks depriving smes of the conditions of transparency and trust necessary for their management and the dynamism of their activity by reducing their access to credit. it is paradoxical to ask banks to be more transparent, blaming them for the opacity of financial markets which led to the current crisis, and at the same time to want to remove the transparency tools which are indispensable for economic actors themselves and for the economic regulatory policies which i support at european level.
in writing. the 2020 strategy is intended to replace the lisbon strategy. it is also likely to prolong the shortcomings, to be followed by the same lack of results and to cause the same disappointments. it is neither a genuine recovery strategy nor a new direction for the union's economic, social, budgetary and fiscal policies. the accumulation of good intentions is matched only by the absence of new instruments to implement them. europe needs a different ambition, and citizens expect more convincing answers. since the start of the crisis, there have been 7 million more unemployed. the banks are speculating again, no regulations are passed on hedge funds and citizens are being asked to tighten their belts, public services are being cut and social protection is being cut. the greek crisis is a sign of the lack of solidarity. that is why europe must debate a different vision of its future, based on genuine economic coordination, solidarity, a strategy for green growth, an energy community, a cohesion budget, own resources, investment in education and research, fiscal and social harmonization, the fight against tax havens, the taxation of international financial transactions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the crushing failure of the lisbon strategy, which was supposed to make europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, here is the eu 2020 strategy, which is the exact continuation of it. flexibility of the labour market, i.e. precariousness for workers, increased competition at european and world level, liberal reform of national social protection systems, full respect for the stupid stability pact... all the ingredients are there to make this strategy a strategy of national and social disintegration, like the lisbon strategy before it. the only new things are those inspired by your new whims: to make european economic governance compulsory and binding, whereas the europe of brussels has shown itself to be completely ineffective in the face of the world crisis; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we shall vote against this text.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because the objective of full employment is not sufficiently emphasised. secondly, our priorities should be more focused on the fight against poverty and sustainable growth. the european parliament also misses the opportunity to stress the need to combat all forms of precarious work, through a directive on parttime work, the introduction of a framework of social rights guaranteed regardless of the type of employment contract and measures to combat abuses in subcontracting, even unpaid traineeships. finally, this resolution ignores the need for the harmonization of the tax base, which is essential for the creation of a european social model. this is a great missed opportunity for the european parliament in building a social and sustainable europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution calling for the implementation of the recommendations of the goldstone report as it is essential to get the israeli and palestinian authorities to conduct impartial and transparent investigations into the tragedy in gaza in 2008-2009, not with relentlessness but with determination. the member states, for their part, must take a stronger stand and commit themselves to supporting these demands with their israeli-palestinian partners. international humanitarian law must be respected by all parties to the conflict and the eu's objective must be to ensure that these principles are respected.
in writing. reducing the israeli-palestinian conflict to a comparison of the number of deaths on either side of a warring party can only distort the view of this war which has now gone on for too long. we all agree that the solution to this conflict is difficult to find, because the causes of the conflict are complex and deep-seated. manichaeism cannot be the rule in this part of the world. the only mandate of the mission led by judge goldstone was to identify violations of international law. and although the conclusions of this report are not all unjustified, to vote against these resolutions which approved the conduct and conclusions of a text which, i believe, was conducted in a biased manner, but above all with incomplete objectives, seemed to me the most honest intellectual solution. yes, we must expose and stop the abuses by either of the warring parties in this region, but we must be very careful about the procedure we use if we want justice in this region to lead to a lasting peace.
in writing. the goldstone report highlighted the need for independent investigations to be carried out swiftly in order to establish the facts, the responsibility of the parties and the consequences of possible violations of international and humanitarian law in the gaza conflict. these investigations must be carried out in good faith by the palestinian and israeli public authorities and i hope that they will thereby be able to encourage the resumption of negotiations, and therefore fully endorse the principle of this. i would also like to point out that the conflict in gaza has destroyed many eu-funded projects aimed at alleviating the humanitarian crisis affecting the population, which is suffering from shortages of basic necessities and lack of access to basic public services. the people there need hope and to continue to believe in a speedy solution to the israeli-palestinian problem. only in these circumstances will the conditions be met for a just and lasting peace between a viable, secure and peaceful palestinian state and a neighbouring israeli state.
in writing. the french delegation modem reiterated its wish to have an impact study and concrete proposals from the european commission on the creation of taxes on financial transactions. the resolution adopted by a very large majority (536 votes in favour, 80 against and 33 abstentions) on wednesday was supported by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. we ask the commission to draw up a proposal to define a common european position to be presented to the g20 in june. it would also be appropriate to assess the extent to which such a tax could contribute to stabilising financial markets. the questions to be answered by the commission concern the use of this tax to support developing countries' adaptation to climate change and the financing of development cooperation, but also what levers the commission could use to persuade its partners to also implement this tax in order to avoid capital migration. but first and foremost, a thorough impact assessment is needed to ensure that this tax does not reduce the union's competitiveness, sustainable investment, innovation and growth, or have a negative impact on smes and individual investors.
in writing. in 2000, i tabled with the intergroup on globalisation the first resolution calling on the commission to study the feasibility of a tax on speculative capital movements. it had not been voted on, by a few votes. ten years have passed, the g20, like several member states, no longer rule out the possibility of such a tax, and above all the financial crisis has reminded us of the damage that the volatility of financial markets can cause. that is why i welcome the broad adoption of the resolution on financial transaction taxes. it's a small step, but the message is clear. parliament called on the commission to finally address the issue and work on an implementation plan. such a tax would have the dual benefit of helping to stabilise markets and generate huge revenues to help developing countries finance their adaptation to climate change and the fight against poverty. we are opposed to it because it would only be effective if it were global, but we must start with it, as some countries are doing with the airline ticket tax. waiting will have no effect. we have to clear the way.
in writing. the resolution on acta, which i am one of the initiators of, is extremely symbolic because it was unanimous. it is a clear signal to the commission, which has been negotiating this agreement in the utmost secrecy for two years. parliament demands full transparency on the negotiations under way and respect for the treaties, which give it the right to information on an equal footing with the council. i am opposed to the acta negotiations as they are being conducted, both in terms of the method and in terms of what we know about the substance. we have many fears about the community acquis being called into question. beyond the risk of reintroducing the 'graduated' response, it is also the respect for citizens' fundamental rights, in terms of freedom of expression, privacy and data protection, as well as the principle of non-liability of internet service providers and web hosts that could be called into question. parliament has already shown its commitment to these principles and if the commission does not change its strategy, i will lead the fight against parliament's ratification of acta as we have already been able to do for the swift agreement.
in writing. despite the lisbon treaty and the codecision on international trade, the commission and the states are preventing a public debate on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acac). this lack of transparency is creating a real suspicion which can only be mitigated by holding a public consultation and the european parliament. if the fight against counterfeiting is legitimate and necessary, the acac treaty would strengthen the power of copyright and copyrights. should we let the internet providers control the exchange of digital files, and impose sanctions against users (e.g. cutting off internet access)? the cost of such monitoring would be exorbitant for the access providers, and the checks complicated. moreover, internet hacking is not yet defined as a crime, either in european or international law. thus, a logic of systematic sanctioning on such a large scale is not legitimate, especially since access to the internet, in the name of the right to information, remains a fundamental freedom. the commission will have to make available to parliament a document setting out the negotiations and all the positions under discussion. otherwise, as with the swift agreement, parliament could reject this secretly negotiated text.
in writing. this draft agreement to combat counterfeiting and piracy, known as acta, may seem like a good idea, as much as the european economy and jobs suffer from these unfair practices in the ultra-barter world that you are imposing on us. but as always when there is something fundamentally harmful in an agreement negotiated by the commission, it is all done in secret. i am thinking of the blair house agreement which sacrificed european agriculture to the appetites of the american multinational agro-food companies. or the scandalous ami, the multilateral investment treaty, which sought to exempt multinational corporations from the laws of the countries in which they operated. fortunately, this one never came to be. here it is the acta "internet" component that is at issue: it is very much like introducing a monstrous worldwide "hadopi law"! customs could search mp3 players, phones and laptops of any citizen suspected of illegally downloading any file. internet service providers may be forced to remove their customers' login or provide information about them! this is unacceptable, and that is why we voted in favour of this resolution which calls for full transparency in the negotiations and threatens to bring the commission to justice if it refuses to do so.
in writing. i supported the resolution calling for full transparency from the european commission on the ongoing negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) which are taking place behind closed doors. beyond the risk of reintroducing the 'graduated response', it is the respect for citizens' fundamental rights, in terms of freedom of expression, privacy and data protection, or the principle of non-responsibility of internet service providers and web hosts that could be called into question here. the european parliament, the voice of the european peoples, cannot therefore be left out of the negotiations and must receive the same information as that given to the council. this is a democratic requirement. finally, acta must not compromise access to generic medicines. in this context, considering that, to date, in view of the method and on the basis of the worrying rumours circulating as to its content, i can only express my support for a resolution critical of such an agreement.
in writing. the current scheme of generalised systems of preferences (gsp) is about to expire. i voted in favour of the resolution which aims in particular to involve parliament fully in its revision by 2012. this trade arrangement allows 176 developing countries and regions to benefit from preferential access to the european market in exchange for ratification of ilo conventions on social rights and un conventions on human rights. but its implementation is too weak. we therefore ask, before the review, for a report on the current state of ratification, the implementation of the conventions, an impact study of the effects of the gsp over the period 2006-2009, the inclusion of a condition for the effective implementation of 27 core un conventions and more transparent investigation procedures - including regular information to parliament. it is regrettable that an amendment calling for an investigation procedure in colombia into the numerous murders of trade unionists and the mass graves containing hundreds of bodies of people killed in the macarena region was not passed during this vote because of opposition from the right.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i am delighted to see you again, mr potočnik, in your position as commissioner for the environment. you represent our commissioner for industry, and i thank you for that, and thank you for your communication. i would like to welcome the question from my colleague, president reul, who was right, commissioner, to ask you how the commission sees this crucial issue of clean energy and the financing of new technologies. the world's population is growing. we will need an additional 40% of energy by 2030, and i would add that 80% of this consumption demand will come from non-oecd countries. in the face of these great challenges, the solution is not the ideology of degrowth or the retreat into nostalgia for the past. the european union therefore has a duty to intervene and i would like to say a few words on a subject which may divide us within the political groups, namely nuclear energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. this does not give the european union a privilege, but it does give us a duty to participate in the debate and in the financing. nuclear energy, as we know, is a decarbonised energy and we need funding, commissioner, particularly from carbon credits, to develop research, development and training on all these subjects. we shall be proposing amendments, in particular to improve the resolutions which are being proposed, and i shall end by saying a word about the by-products of nuclear power, which are of great concern to our fellow citizens. there are two options in the world: long-term storage, which is chosen by the united states, and we, the european union, must choose another approach, which is recovery through recycling. it is the choice of russia, japan and france. it is in this context that we who are responsible for safety and security must trust science and conscience on all these matters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, several regions of europe have been struck by exceptional natural weather phenomena, which have caused enormous material, economic, agricultural and environmental damage and, unfortunately, too many human casualties. i hope, commissioner, that, in addition to your legitimate condolences, the european solidarity fund, a useful european activity, can be implemented quickly and flexibly in france and madeira, as it has been done in other european countries, to help my compatriots in the vendée and charente-maritime to re-establish the essential infrastructure and services. i understand from what you said that the french government has not yet arrested you and i am very surprised. but i must say that there are things that i find relatively unbearable in the exploitation that some people make of these events. first, the compulsive need to link the natural disasters we are experiencing to so-called global warming. no matter what political or pseudo-scientific claims are made, they will not dictate the weather and the tides, nor will they prevent earthquakes. the second is the systematic search for culprits and easy scapegoats. the xynthia disaster in western france was the result of a rare combination of two events: the storm itself, of course, and tides of unusual magnitude that led to the breaking of the dikes. a controversy has flared over building permits issued by mayors, who are personally blamed for the deaths in their communes. but neither the department, nor the region, nor the state services, nor the town planners, nor the architects, objected to these building permits applied for by private individuals. the elected representatives on the ground, especially in small towns, are rightly very popular with their fellow citizens, they assume great responsibilities almost voluntarily, they have a remarkable sense of the general interest, they face an increasing complexity of their responsibilities, of which europe has its share, they are also totally abandoned by the public authorities, and i wanted to recall this here.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to express my deep sympathy and solidarity with the victims of the floods in madeira and of the storm xynthia. the questions that need to be asked are the worrying increase in these destructive weather events, the role of climate change and the urgency of finding remedies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of these disasters. it is true that public and private insurance must be reactive, but european solidarity must be expressed in the case of destroyed infrastructure and the rehabilitation of the territories. that is why the french government has asked for assistance from the eu solidarity fund, which was set up in 2002 and which i hope will be granted quickly and in a significant way. this is the meaning of the two letters i sent to the commission on 1 march, as the elected representative of the west of france region, and which i had the opportunity to discuss with commissioner hahn in la rochelle last thursday, and i thank him very much for his very great responsiveness. commissioner hahn agreed that the mechanism was complex and difficult to implement. however, we can only observe that it could have been relaxed if the council had not, in an incomprehensible way, blocked the revision of the functioning of this fund adopted by a very large majority by parliament in may 2006. i therefore hope that the spanish presidency will unblock this text in order to improve the efficiency of the system. more immediately, i call on the commission to allow an exceptional increase in co-financing from the erdf and esf regional funds for projects in the affected regions, in time to allow the recovery of the summer economy. finally, this aid should not be used to rebuild by repeating the same dramatic environmental and urban errors, but in a deliberate way, in order to prevent as much as possible the recurrence of such tragedies.
mr president, after the disaster that struck the french coast, just a few weeks after madeira, our group tabled amendments so that our parliament, while expressing solidarity, would denounce responsibility. because if european citizens have died, if others have lost everything in these disasters, it is not simply because the elements have gone wild. it is also because very serious mistakes were made in leaving the coastlines and rivers to be cemented. these are the failures of states, of their laws, which are very inadequate, of their administrations, which are too lax, and of their governments, which are too irresponsible. allowing construction in flood-prone areas is no less serious than allowing and encouraging the use of tobacco or asbestos for years, when people were dying and we knew full well that this was the cause. before xynthia, there was madeira, before that, there was sicily, tomorrow, there will be other disasters. if the european parliament does not speak out, it will in turn be responsible for the disasters to come. the european union must show solidarity but it must also show responsibility.
mr president, commissioner, like all of us here, our thoughts are first and foremost with the people, the bereaved families and those who have lost everything because of xynthia. one of the lessons to be learned from this disaster will have been, once again, the usefulness of the services of the states, the municipalities, the departments, the regions, such as public services and civil protection, which have shown their effectiveness. today, as we all say, there is an urgent need to help families to repair, to rebuild, but we must rebuild in a different way, taking into account nature and human beings. to do this, insurance companies, which are profiting handsomely, must be encouraged to pay damages promptly. on the other hand, given the exceptional nature of these regions, the european union, in cooperation with the states, must mobilise much more and more quickly, in particular with the european solidarity fund, in a more flexible way than you have undoubtedly just explained, commissioner. the destruction of homes, businesses, the sterilization of agricultural land are unlikely to be quantifiable in the way we do by traditional criteria. on the other hand, it will also be necessary to combine regional funds and the esf to help the regions to rebuild. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the effects of the recent events on the environment and to draw up a report on the effects of the recent events on the environment. the question of building in flood-prone areas and of combating speculation in coastal real estate must be completely reexamined in connection with the natural balances, the activities of agriculture, aquaculture, oyster farming and fishing, which are all too often destroyed by european policies. that is why i am proposing that the european union, in conjunction with the states and regions, should be able to draw up a coherent plan for reconstruction and sustainable development, taking account of geography, the environment, biodiversity and coastal activities. finally, it must be possible to set up a common system of prevention, monitoring and alerting, and of solidarity and rapid assistance to the population.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. as my colleague, mrs élisabeth morin-chartier, and other colleagues have pointed out, on 27 and 28 february the violent storm xynthia struck several regions of france, killing 53 people and causing enormous damage to property. the storm was of unusual intensity, causing devastating flooding along the french coast. after madeira, europe is once again involved. brittany, the region of my colleague and friend alain cadec, was hit hard. three french regions have been declared in a state of natural disaster: brittany, poitou-charentes and the loire. the european union must show its responsiveness and solidarity in the face of these disasters. it is not only through words and resolutions but also and above all through financial aid that we can support the victims of these disasters. i therefore call on the european commission - and my colleague christophe béchu agrees with me - to release the eu solidarity fund quickly to help the affected regions cope with the damage. this disaster demonstrates the relevance of michel barnier's proposal to create a european civil intervention force. europeans must act together because disasters are multiplying and affecting our european territories and, in particular, our most isolated and vulnerable regions, such as the islands of the indian ocean and the caribbean.
in writing. on 27 and 28 february, the violent storm xynthia hit several regions of france. it killed 53 people and caused massive property damage, including severe flooding. after the disaster in madeira, europe was once again concerned. my region, brittany, has been hit hard and three departments have been declared in a state of natural disaster along with the regions of poitou-charentes and pays de la loire. i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the families affected and to the victims of the disaster. the whole of the european union must show its responsiveness and solidarity by providing financial aid and support for reconstruction. christophe béchu is joining me in my request for emergency aid. the financial resources of the solidarity fund seem to be difficult to implement today. since 2005, parliament has been calling for a more efficient and faster use of the eusf, and it must be heard. the commission and the council must encourage the rapid release of this fund to the regions concerned. this disaster shows that the barnier report on the creation of a european civil intervention force europaid makes perfect sense and would make it possible to move towards greater efficiency in dealing with disasters.
in writing. storm xynthia is another dramatic and painful manifestation of climate change, which is intensifying the violence and frequency of these natural phenomena. the european union is now too regularly confronted with such natural disasters to be content with its current policies and i believe that it should strengthen 3 lines of intervention to better protect its citizens: - prevention, addressed in the 2009 white paper on adaptation to climate change, for which i was rapporteur, and which particularly emphasises the vulnerability of coastal and mountain areas; - the rapid intervention, finally creating the european civil protection force which has been much talked about and which is only waiting for a proposal to become a reality; - reparation, by allowing the emergency mobilisation of the structural funds, and if necessary outside the regional framework of the programmed lines of intervention, and of the solidarity fund whose regulation must be amended to speed up and simplify its mobilisation. so of course i support this resolution but i regret that our assembly is again obliged to ask for measures which could have been proposed following one of the too many natural disasters which have plagued europe in recent years.
member of the commission. − mr president, i make this statement on behalf of my colleague, kristalina georgieva, commissioner for international cooperation, humanitarian aid and crisis response. why instead of her? it is pretty clear and obvious. commissioner georgieva arrived in chile yesterday, 10 march, to visit areas affected by the recent earthquake and to follow the work of european humanitarian and civil protection experts there on the ground. immediately after arriving in chile’s capital santiago, commissioner georgieva travelled to the area most affected by the earthquake and tsunami, including the coastal region around constitución, talca, and concepción. during her field visit she met representatives of echo partners working in the area, visited the monitoring and information centre base camp in penco and had bilateral contacts with chilean authorities in the region. commissioner georgieva will also represent president barroso during the inauguration of president sebastián piñera in valparaíso later today. the massive earthquake and subsequent tsunami that struck chile in the early hours of saturday 27 february are a terrible tragedy. the latest official figures indicate that at least 528 people have been killed, and that number is expected to rise. more than two million people are affected. the damage to infrastructure has been enormous and half a million homes have been seriously damaged. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission, cathy ashton, called chile’s foreign minister, mariano fernández, the same day to express our condolences to the families of the victims and indicate our readiness to provide assistance and support. as soon as news of the earthquake broke, echo’s emergency response system was mobilised. the eu civil protection mechanism immediately issued a pre-alert message to the participating states. the crisis room of the monitoring and information centre (mic) operated throughout that first weekend, obtaining reports about the scale and impact of the earthquake, identifying civil protection assets that could be available for rapid deployment. commissioner georgieva went to the crisis room during the day to direct operations. a number of european union member states have notified the mic of assistance deployed or offered. this includes personnel and equipment already sent to concepción from spain, germany, france and the united kingdom, funding pledges from finland, the united kingdom and the netherlands, and offers of bridges, tents, field kitchens and generators from bulgaria, slovakia, sweden and austria. the chilean authorities have signalled their acceptance of offers of help made by the european union member states. the commission’s emergency humanitarian response system was launched simultaneously in brussels and in echo’s managua regional office covering latin america. potential partners for fast-track funding with the capacity to provide immediate relief assistance were contacted and echo field experts were mobilised to travel to the earthquake zone at the first available opportunity. a three million primary emergency decision was adopted early on sunday morning. humanitarian grant agreements have now been concluded with four partner agencies: telecom sans frontières from france to provide emergency telecommunications services; the pan-american health organisation and the spanish red cross to help re-establish health services, and the german red cross to supply shelter, safe water and basic household essentials. echo deployed a team of two humanitarian aid experts who arrived in chile on the morning of monday, 1 march to carry out needs assessments and to meet with the authorities and potential implementing partners. two more members of the team arrived the following day and they were joined by a fifth some days later. an eu civil protection mechanism, a team of six experts, is also now in chile. four are working in the earthquake zone near concepción, while two are currently based in santiago to liaise with authorities and coordinate the response of european union member states. the echo humanitarian experts and the eu civil protection team are undertaking joint assessments with ocha and several un agencies in the most affected areas.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said before, the earthquake in chile, which was more powerful than the one in haiti and was followed by a tsunami, was far less deadly, thanks to a well-functioning early warning system, better preparedness of the population for disasters and a strong state that was able to react. i welcome the swift reaction of the european commission and the member states. the european commission's monitoring and information centre was immediately activated, a humanitarian emergency decision was adopted allocating €3 million to meet immediate needs and experts from dg echo were deployed to the affected areas to assess needs. i would particularly like to congratulate the immediate public reaction of commissioner georgieva kristalina, who arrived in santiago yesterday for the field visits. most natural disasters are sudden events. it is essential, in order to preserve life in areas vulnerable to natural disasters, to reduce risks through better preparation, through adapted construction. disaster risk reduction must also be integrated into development cooperation, i.e. disaster preparedness, mitigation and, above all, prevention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the storm xynthia struck france violently on 27 and 28 february. nearly 60 people were killed and hundreds of thousands suffered extensive damage. in the face of this tragedy, the european union must set an example. that is why i have personally been involved in drafting this resolution calling on the european commission to be extremely reactive. we expect it to provide financial aid to the disaster areas through the european union solidarity fund. if, in view of this tragedy, the regions of poitou-charentes, charente-maritime, pays de la loire or brittany ask to change their spending programmes co-financed by the erdf or the esf, the european commission will have to examine these requests with the greatest care and in a very rapid manner. beyond this resolution, like my colleagues in the presidential majority, i am convinced that it is time to create a real european civil protection force. only the community can provide the additional help that is needed in such a disaster.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the follow-up to the devastating and deadly passage of the storm xynthia over our territory because, beyond the search for responsibility, it is first of all european solidarity that must play a role in enabling support for the victims of this disaster that has struck several european countries. we must not only use the solidarity fund, but also the cohesion funds, the erdf, the esf and the agricultural development fund. finally, we must encourage insurance companies to intervene as soon as possible and to draw lessons from such events in the issuing of building permits.
in writing. in recent weeks, several regions of the eu have been hit by natural disasters: madeira, then western france and parts of spain. we in the european parliament are deeply concerned about the human and material consequences of the violence of these weather phenomena. this is the meaning of the resolution on natural disasters voted today in the european parliament, expressing our 'deep sympathy' and 'solidarity' with the victims of the devastated regions. european solidarity must be translated into financial terms by mobilising the european union solidarity fund and through projects from other european funds. as regards the solidarity fund, i must nevertheless point out that the current regulation does not allow for a sufficiently flexible and rapid response, there is an opportunity to amend this regulation, and it is now up to the european council to take this matter forward. i also voted in favour of the amendment supporting the proposal made by michel barnier in 2006 to create a european civil protection force. i regret that it was not adopted, the implementation of this proposal would improve the eu's response to crises.
author. - mr president, the resolution on corporal gilad shalit which we are considering today is in addition to the many resolutions previously adopted by the european parliament on the human rights situation in the middle east. corporal gilad shalit, who has been held hostage for 1,355 days, must be released immediately. we demand it and hope for it with all our heart. the young french palestinian, salah hamouri, who has been held by the israeli authorities since 13 march 2005, must be released. the minors imprisoned in israel in violation of international law and the convention on the rights of the child must be released. activists of the popular non-violent struggle against the occupation, such as abdallah abu rahma of bil'in, must be released. the elected representatives, the members of the palestinian legislative council including marwan barghouti must be released. it is time for the european union to make a strong demand that human rights and international law be respected in the middle east. the solutions will not come from over-bidding, repression and violence, such as the assassination of a hamas leader in dubai, which we condemn, not least because it makes it even more difficult to free gilad shalit.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2007, human rights violations have been steadily worsening in mexico. according to mexican ngos and media, more than 6,500 murders, attributed to drug cartels, were recorded in 2009 alone, the vast majority of them in the state of chihuahua. president calderón's government has sent thousands of troops to the worst-affected areas. since then, the abuses committed by both the military and the police have increased with impunity. ngos are increasing reports and talking about state crimes. journalists, indigenous peoples, and especially women, indigenous and non-indigenous, are particularly affected. i met some of them from san salvador atenco, raped and tortured by the police forces. and i was horrified by what they told me. the perpetrators of these acts committed in may 2006 still enjoy total impunity. we cannot therefore share the concerns of the mexican authorities, whose agents regularly violate human rights. we shall therefore not be joining the joint resolution and will table...
author. - mr president, at the 4th world congress against the death penalty, held in geneva at the end of february, the abolitionist movement welcomed the growing number of countries which had abolished or suspended the death penalty. south korea seemed to have taken this path, as no executions had taken place since december 1997. the recent decision of the constitutional court of korea can only worry us, we can only deplore it. we therefore hope that the commission and the council will consider the abolition of the death penalty, the violation of the right to life and state crime as an essential element of the european union's relations with third countries. we want them to call on the korean government and the president of the republic, who was himself sentenced to death in 1981, to commit themselves firmly to abolition, to decide on a moratorium in accordance with the un decision, to express concern about the situation of the 59 people on death row in that country, some of whom are political prisoners, and to ask that their sentences be commuted.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, what the epp group expects from the european council is that it should reaffirm european solidarity without any ambiguity, while placing everyone before his or her responsibilities. the epp group also expects the heads of state or government to define their roadmap for europe's exit from the crisis. how far are they willing to cooperate and what are their red lines? do they believe that the recovery of growth and employment requires genuine joint action, with the means that this implies, or do they prefer to do it, each on their own, with innovation, education, training, support for smes, the fight against unemployment and poverty, with the results that we know? i would remind you that in 2000 all our member states had subscribed to the priorities of the lisbon strategy. but because we did not have the means, because we did not take the objectives seriously, we lost many years, and everything we said has come true, but outside europe. my group therefore expects the european council to do more than merely speak, to give serious consideration to our common economic objectives on the basis of the commission's 2020 proposals, of which parliament will propose an amended version in june. i would like to return to the question of solidarity, a question which has been the subject of much discussion in recent weeks and which is indeed the alpha and omega of the construction of europe, from the establishment of the single market to common defence and the euro. this solidarity has been effective since the beginning of the financial crisis and it should not be lacking for our greek friends, as it should be for any country in the union which would encounter the same difficulties. this week, a european solution must be found to this crisis, and it is a community solution - and i repeat - a community solution which must be considered in accordance with european rules and within the framework of community financial assistance mechanisms. and in this context, if we wish, we can even introduce the imf, but always within the framework of respect for community rules. and it is in everyone's interest to ensure the stability of europe and the european monetary system. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. this responsibility is for each member country to ensure fair and honest public accounts. it is also the call of the citizens of countries which are experiencing momentary difficulties to pay the price of making sacrifices, to participate in the collective effort to bring public finances back on track and to accept the reforms which are necessary to do so, however cruel they may be. in other words, yes, europe must stand in solidarity with greece. she has to make sure she gets through this rough patch. but greece must also make the necessary reforms at home, in the short and medium term, to deserve this solidarity, and it proposed them to parliament yesterday. still does now put them up. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is forcing us to change. the first change concerns the commission, which i call upon to exercise fully and above all authoritatively its role as guardian of the treaties. the criteria of the stability pact must be applied and the commission must ensure that this is the case. this parliament will support it in this difficult fight. the second change concerns the governance of our public finances. in times of growth, each one believes that he is entitled to pursue his own budgetary, fiscal and social policy, without really caring about the other. but in times of crisis, those who have spent the most call for solidarity from those who have been, say, more reasonable. can we keep this up? i don't think he did. it is time for the member states to coordinate their budgetary, fiscal and social policies more closely, and let us not be afraid of words, let us have more community governance! and this coordination will only make the implementation of the principles of solidarity easier, fairer and more natural. i would ask you, mr president-in-office, to take initiatives in this direction. you know, in my experience, it's always in times of crisis that you push the machine forward. we are in a real crisis at the level of our citizens and the ground, and we need political courage. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, is it normal that two european councils are needed to resolve the question of solidarity between the euro-zone countries and greece? i hear mr langen interpreting the treaty. yes, there is the treaty, the letter and the spirit. and when we look at articles 143 and 122, none of the drafters of the treaty had in mind anything beyond the changeover to the euro, we could be faced with a problem of the kind we are facing today. that's why we have to be creative, that's why we have to be supportive. and the idea of greece being returned to the imf seems to us, for those of us who claim to be responsible and coherent europeans on the international scene, to be totally contradictory. there is one thing we must do, and we must hope that the message of the european council is a message of solidarity with greece and a message of responsibility on the issue of economic governance. this is a serious and open question. we must deal with it calmly, reduce the pressure and not assume that we must, a priori, strengthen the instrument which has not worked so far, namely the stability pact, because it was repressive before it was cooperative. we need to pursue objectives in terms of public deficit, in terms of debt, but we also need to invent terms of cooperation, of good added value between the members of the euro area. this is the challenge facing the european council, and i hope it will do so with a sense of responsibility.
madam president, i have one comment and three proposals. first observation: i do not understand why president van rompuy is not attending such an important meeting. mr minister, you are not a member of the european council and i think he could have been there. three proposals on the recovery plan for greece. in the medium term, i support the idea of daniel cohn-bendit, which was echoed elsewhere earlier: if the european union could make a pact with turkey to solve the cyprus problem, we could help greece by two points of gdp. another proposal on the financial side, since we do not have the instruments. why does the european union not guarantee a set of financial commitments, which would lower interest rates and which has been a consensus objective in the european parliament? finally, it was said that the accounts of greece were false. it is not only in greece that accounts are false. i propose that we make public sector accounting standards for the whole of the european union so that we have financial statements which are consistent, regular and truthful for all member states.
madam president, fontarabie airport is classified by the civil aviation authorities as one of the most dangerous in the country. its landing and take-off runways are above the city centres of hendaye and irún, and the franco-spanish treaty defining the number of flights allowed is not respected. and yet, its extension is being considered against the advice of the local people and elected officials on both sides of the border, who already reject any continuation of the current traffic. does the european commission approve of the destruction of the protected natural areas of chingoudy bay, a ramsar convention site and natura 2000 site, the rehabilitation of which it has itself financed? in addition, the basque eurocity bayonne-saint sébastien already has an underused international airport, far from any vulnerable natural area. would it not be better to improve the service to biarritz by means of transport that does not pollute? i would like to know what action the president will take on this extension.
madam president, yesterday france paid tribute to one of its police officers, jean-serge nérin, the french brigadier-general who was cowardly murdered by eta on 16 march in a shooting in the paris area. responsible for the deaths of nearly 830 people in forty years, this is the first time that this terrorist organization has attacked a french policeman. mr nerin's death reminds us of our duty to cooperate in the fight against terrorism. the french-spanish cooperation was an early example of such cooperation within the european union. france and spain were the first member states to set up joint investigation teams in the european judicial area. the implementation of the european arrest warrants also proved to be very effective. unfortunately, these cooperative efforts between our police and our magistrates were not able to prevent the assassination of mr nérin. this cooperation will therefore have to be further strengthened in order to combat terrorism more effectively.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, i think it is quite symbolic, commissioner, that in your first speech to this parliament you have to speak precisely about quality policy. i think we share the same approach to these quality products. yes, they are a chance for our most fragile territories! they are a source of dynamism for the people in a territory, and especially for farmers! yes, they are a strong signal to european consumers, but also to consumers worldwide, about our agricultural model. the wines of bordeaux, the ham of parma, certain spanish meats, these speak well beyond the borders of each of our countries, well beyond the borders of europe. the resolution we are likely to adopt tomorrow, commissioner, will give you more ambition for this policy of quality products, products identified by different signs. european policy must be more clear, protecting producers from the control of certain large industrial groups or the distribution sector, which would obviously like to deprive producers of the added value that these products bring to them. at the hearing i drew your attention to the need to give the structures which bear the appellations of origin in particular a comprehensive competence in the management of their products. the management of production rights is a fundamental element of the policy on quality products. our committee voted almost unanimously for an amendment to that effect. i would like to reply to our british colleagues on the question of article 19 on fruit and vegetables. yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in going back, but there is no point in admitting the vacuum in the fruit and vegetable policy, which today makes the distributors the sole masters of the game. let us interpret this amendment together as a call for a new middle way. you can very quickly, commissioner, convince us of your enthusiasm for this specific policy, which gives consumers a different image of agriculture. now, come up with a good text. do it quickly, we trust you.
madam president, i believe that there will be no lasting solution to unemployment and underemployment unless we reverse the current logic of favouring capital over labour and introduce a new distribution of wealth which involves an increase in wages, levels of social protection and minimum benefits. this will lead to a sustainable recovery with a high employment rate. social progress is the condition for overcoming the economic crisis, not the other way around. the g20 should encourage the international banking sector to mobilise for selective credit that would serve employment, job-creating investment and the promotion of a new environmentally friendly economy. at the same time, speculative capital movements should be taxed so that they can be redirected towards the fight against poverty. i propose that a system of occupational social security and training for the trades of tomorrow be studied and tested, combined with the development of public research, which is essential for a new, sustainable and sustainable economy.
president of the european central bank. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i am pleased to be with you today for the debate on the resolution on the 2008 annual report of the european central bank. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. but it also gives me the opportunity to address the current situation at the end. as you know, mr president, the european central bank enjoys very close relations with parliament, which go well beyond the obligations laid down in the treaty. we have had a very fruitful dialogue over the years and i would like to say that the excellent reports we have heard from mr scicluna and mr giegold are a further testimony. today, in my report, i shall briefly review the economic developments observed in the past and the monetary policy measures taken by the central bank. i shall then address some points which have been raised in the motion for a resolution and say a few words on the current situation. first on the economic developments and monetary policy over the past year. in 2009, as was very eloquently said by mr scicluna, the european central bank was operating in an environment that future economic historians are likely to describe as the most difficult one for advanced economies since the second world war. following the profound intensification of the financial crisis in the autumn of 2008, 2009 started with a continued synchronised free fall in economic activity worldwide. until around april last year, economic activity was declining, month after month. during this period the trademark which was vital for maintaining confidence and it was the trademark of the ecb was the ability to take the immediate and exceptional decisions that were necessary while at the same time remaining inflexibly attached to our primary objective of maintaining price stability in the medium term. overall our non-standard monetary policy measures, which are known collectively as enhanced credit support, have served, we trust, the euro area economy well. they have supported the functioning of the money market, contributed to improving financing conditions and allowed for a better flow of credit to the real economy than could have been achieved through interest rate reductions alone. by and large, banks have been passing on the sharply lower key ecb interest rates to households and businesses. the guiding principle is that, to the extent that the situation returns to normal, keeping these measures in place for longer than required risks changing the behaviour of financial market participants in an undesirable manner, and we do not wish to spread dependency. this is why in december 2009, we began to gradually phase out some of our extraordinary liquidity measures, taking into account improvements in financial markets. in particular, we scaled back the number, frequency and maturity of longer-term refinancing operations. at the same time we have committed to maintaining fully accommodating liquidity support to the euro area banking system until at least october this year. the governing council is of the opinion that the current monetary policy stance is appropriate and that the continued firm anchoring of inflation expectations bodes well for price stability in the medium term. let me now turn to some of the issues you raise in the resolution and which were mentioned in the report. on the issues of accountability and transparency, we very much appreciate the regular dialogue with the european parliament and the constructive spirit with which this exchange is conducted. i therefore welcome the repeated support by the committee on economic and monetary affairs for our quarterly monetary dialogue. i think, as the rapporteur has said very eloquently, we are accountable to the european people, which means to parliament. we consider the ecb to be one of the world's most transparent central banks. our practice of holding a press conference immediately after the governing council meeting on monetary policy each month remains a pioneering initiative that has not yet been replicated by our major sister institutions. with the publication of our comprehensive introductory statement in real time, we explain policy decisions and their underlying rationale. during the crisis, as you know, we have further intensified our communication efforts and thereby helped to smooth financial market reactions, to build confidence and lay the foundations for recovery. you have also requested the views of the ecb on the establishment of a clearing house for instruments such as credit default swaps (cdss) within the euro area. i would like to say that the robustness of euro-denominated cds markets is of direct relevance for the eurosystem as regards control over its currency and financial stability in the euro area. central counterparty clearing is very important, not only for delivering transparency but also for diversifying and sharing risk exposures and reducing the incentives to take excessive risks. certain financial instruments which were introduced for hedging should not be misused for speculation. regulators should be able to undertake effective investigations into possible improper conduct, and there it seems to me that we are very much in line with parliament's concerns. let me say just a word on the outlook for emu during challenging times. an economic recovery is in progress, but this does not mean that the crisis is over. for one thing, we know that the pace of recovery will be uneven and we cannot rule out setbacks. for another, we are still facing numerous challenges regarding the reform of our financial system. finance must play a constructive role, and not a destructive one, in our economies. the litmus test for a constructive role is that finance serves the real economy. to ensure such a role, we still need to improve the functioning of financial systems considerably further. so far, a great deal of attention has been focused on the banking sector. effective reforms therefore have to look very closely at non-bank financial institutions and at the set-up and functioning of financial markets. we have to devise mechanisms and incentives to ensure that finance does not spiral out of control in the destructive way that it did just prior to the crisis. we have to contain systemic disruptions that lead to economic hardship for the people of europe. setting up the european systemic risk board, legislation for which is currently being considered by the parliament, is part of the correct response to this challenge. there are other challenges facing the european economy, and they are associated with public finances, as was again stressed by the rapporteur, and sovereign financial health. within europe's economic and monetary union, there is a clear allocation of responsibilities. with respect to that allocation of responsibilities, everyone can count on the commitment of the ecb to maintain price stability in the euro area as a whole over the medium term. based on our last projections for this year, we will have at the end of this year, after 12 years of the euro, inflation as an annual average of 1.95%. that is in line with our definition of price stability: less than 2%, but close to 2%. the ecb's commitment, the ecb's strategy and its track record are consistent. the smooth functioning of europe's economic and monetary union does not rest only on monetary union but also on economic union. policy-makers at the national level must keep public finances sound and their economies competitive. in the current circumstances, where europe faces pivotal decisions, it is more important than ever to recognise that a prosperous union requires determined action by all. monetary union in europe is far more, in my opinion, than a monetary arrangement. it is a union of shared destiny. (the speaker added in french and german: we share a destiny in common.) this destiny is for our common good, and it is the vision of our founding fathers. monetary union is not a matter of convenience. it is part of an overarching process of advancing the integration of the people in europe that began after the second world war. i believe we often play down the achievement that europe has attained. we are often too quick to criticize our institutions and processes. but they have generally worked well, even in the most difficult times. i trust that european institutions and processes have remained effective during the financial crisis. on this side of the atlantic we have avoided dramatic events that could have triggered a new intensification of the crisis, which began in the united states in september 2008. it is in this present context that i appreciate the commitment of euro area member states, made on the occasion of the last european council meeting, to take determined and coordinated action, if needed, to safeguard financial stability in the euro area. i would also like to take advantage of my presence before the european parliament to lay out what i have already mentioned at the hearing before the committee on economic and monetary affairs on monday. it is the intention of the ecb's governing council to keep the minimum credit threshold in the collateral framework at investment grade level (bbb-) beyond the end of 2010. in parallel, we will introduce, as of january 2011, a graded haircut schedule, which will continue to adequately protect the eurosystem. i will provide the technical details when reporting on the governing council decisions of our next meeting on 8 april. let me conclude. the introduction of the single currency just over a decade ago represents the greatest achievement, in my view, in the history of european integration to date a process that has ensured peace and prosperity in europe. the global financial crisis has brought fresh challenges to which we in europe have risen. our monetary union and our very close ties, inside the single market, with all eu member states' economies have prevented the crisis from being compounded by currency crises, as was the experience in the early 1990s. today, europe faces further pivotal decisions. our common task is to continue to ensure peace and prosperity, to make our union an even more attractive place to live and work in. for this we need strengthened surveillance as again was said by the rapporteurs, and strengthened cooperation. we also need to revive the sense of common purpose, the shared ideals that motivated our founding fathers. their endeavor was visionary and all that we see in today's world confirms their lucidity.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you for the chance to discuss the 2009 annual statement on the euro area. when we prepared our annual statement, we knew that the selected issues would be topical. they might however have become somewhat too topical recently. let me congratulate both rapporteurs, edward scicluna and sven giegold, for their excellent reports. in order to respect the independence of the european central bank, i will focus on the giegold report, which makes a very substantive contribution to the current debate on economic coordination and economic governance within the euro area. in my view, the broad support the giegold report enjoyed within the committee on economic and monetary affairs is indeed a testimony to the relevance and balance of his approach and issues. i fully agree with mr trichet that the euro is not only a technical monetary arrangement but is rather the core political project of the european union, which must be defended and developed in this european spirit, not least today and tomorrow, as the european council is convening at a very critical moment. since 1999 the euro area has mostly been an area of economic stability. it has shielded our citizens from economic turbulences. however, since the end of 2008 the euro area has been hit hard by the global financial crisis. despite the economic recovery policies and strong fiscal stimulus, financial markets still remain volatile and the degree of uncertainty remains exceptionally high. recent waves in the market have seriously tested financial stability and economic governance in the euro area, especially in relation to greece. i would like to say that greece is now on track to meet the 4% target of deficit reduction this year, following the bold and convincing measures that the greek parliament decided earlier this month and which are now in force. this moment may indeed be a turning point in greek fiscal history and economic development. however, neither greece nor the eurozone are completely out of the woods yet as there are still concerns regarding financial stability in the euro area. therefore, the commission has strongly encouraged the euro area member states to take a political decision on a mechanism to ensure financial stability in the euro area as a whole, a mechanism which could be swiftly activated if needed, in conformity with the treaty and its bailout clause and without any automaticity built into this mechanism. on our side, i can assure you that the commission is ready to put such a european framework in place for coordinated and conditional assistance, which could be used if needed and if requested. we are working closely and intensively together with all euro area member states and the ecb in order to reach such a solution this week in the context of the european council. however, in addition to the immediate crisis management, we need to look at how similar situations can be avoided in the future so that we never again have cases similar to the greek case now. the greek crisis has demonstrated the need for enhanced economic governance. this was already recognised and the legal base provided in the lisbon treaty. therefore, we are currently preparing proposals for the implementation of article 136 of the lisbon treaty and the commission will make a proposal for enhanced economic policy coordination and reinforced country surveillance in the coming weeks. like you, mr giegold, in paragraph 28 we regret the lack of binding commitments among governments to enforce coordination in the euro area. therefore an integrated and forward-looking approach focused on policy action and clear operational arrangements is needed. first and foremost, we needed to prevent unsustainable public deficits and therefore we need to be better able to monitor the mid-term budgetary policies of the euro area member states. we need to be able to issue broader and more stringent recommendations to the member states to take corrective measures. i also count on your support in this matter. we can also make better use of existing instruments. it is possible for the council to address recommendations to a member state whose economic policies risk jeopardising the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. this has been used in the past, probably too rarely. with the new lisbon treaty, under article 21, the commission can issue similar early warnings directly to a member state. this is something we must do in order to help member states to address emerging economic problems at a much earlier stage. as i seem to be running on injury time, i will continue on macroeconomic imbalances in my concluding remarks. that is the second core element of reinforced economic governance. by and large, i share the views of the rapporteur in this regard. i just want to conclude by saying that the financial crisis has harshly demonstrated that the continuous economic growth of past decades cannot be taken for granted. today the worst may be over. the economic recovery is now in progress but it is still fragile and not self-sustaining. unemployment has not yet changed for the better. the same applies to the consolidation of public finances, which is a prerequisite for sustainable growth. no matter how important fiscal stimulus was for the economic recovery, the two years of the crisis have wiped out over 20 years of consolidation of public finances. these clouds will overshadow our economic landscape in the coming years. we must do our utmost to clear the sky and bring back growth. therefore this is indeed no time for business as usual. instead, this is time for a change in step to promote sustainable growth and job creation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me first congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mr giegold, who has done a very good job and has listened to the rapporteurs from the other groups. this report, which is the european parliament's response to the european commission's annual declaration on the euro area and public finances, is rich in analyses and proposals. of course, it is largely marked by the key element of 2009, the economic and financial crisis, which is undoubtedly the most serious crisis the european union has experienced since its creation. i take two main lessons from this crisis. on the one hand, economic and monetary union has shown its benefits. the euro, a stable common currency, has acted as a real monetary shield. membership of the euro area has enabled more than one country to avoid a depreciation of its national currency, which would have further aggravated the consequences of the crisis. the euro area has thus become more attractive, as the case of iceland shows. in addition, the active and flexible monetary policy pursued by the ecb, increasing its liquidity injections into credit institutions, has played a considerable role in keeping european banks afloat. the first lesson, then, is that while it is often said that europe was built on crises, it has shown that economic europe is both effective and necessary. the second lesson i draw from this is that we must strengthen european economic governance. today, the only real european economic policy is monetary. the coordination of budgetary policies is limited. the euro area, which, as the report reiterates, is intended to include all the member states of the european union, must have effective governance in all areas of economic policy. it must start with macroeconomic and financial surveillance, which we are working on in the european parliament. it must be conducted within the framework of the stability and growth pact as a genuine instrument of fiscal coordination. in this crisis period, the sharp fall in incomes, the fiscal incentives provided under the recovery plan and the operation of the economic stabilisers led to a deterioration in the budgetary balances of the member states. reducing public debt remains a fundamental commitment because it concerns the future of our children. let us be rigorous but let us also be inventive. let us think about a new european fiscal policy, let us think about eurobonds, let us be bold in european economic governance.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sven giegold report is of particular importance in the current macroeconomic debate. this report is all the more relevant since its author is a german member of parliament who wanted to draw the attention of europeans to the harmful effects on the euro area countries of the german strategy of reducing wage costs in a single currency. the german government is in fact about to drag the euro area and the entire european union into a widespread wage deflation with damaging macroeconomic consequences. in particular, in the absence of substantial structural funds and sufficient budgetary resources, and in the absence of the possibility of devaluation, states with current account deficits are condemned to reduce their wages and reduce the scope of their social protection systems in order to resist. this results firstly in a slowdown in domestic demand leading to negative growth as early as the second quarter of 2008, even before the outbreak of the liquidity crisis. secondly, there is an increase in private debt of households with low and medium incomes, whose purchasing power has stopped growing. their debt to buy homes was fuelled by the whole deregulated financial machine in spain, the uk and ireland, with the disastrous consequences seen in the subprime crisis. ladies and gentlemen, listening to the debates in committee, a significant number of members tend to forget the lessons of this crisis. this crisis is far from over. the current recovery is all the more fragile as europe continues to be in wage deflation and the commission, but also the president of the eurogroup and the president of the european central bank - who we heard on monday - are calling on the member states to adopt early exit policies that are tantamount to genuine austerity plans. these policies risk killing off growth, which has barely returned to positive levels, while capacity utilisation rates remain low. these policies will fail in greece, spain and elsewhere to reduce deficits because the expected tax revenues will be missed. they will increase unemployment and increase social tensions. the giegold report has the merit of drawing attention to some of these macroeconomic imbalances. the final version, as amended by the epp and the liberals, unfortunately refuses to condemn wage deflation. but on the whole, the debate opened by sven giegold can be salutary at a time when the neoliberal dogmas, which have been called into question by the crisis, are coming back into force in this house, in the council and in the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have read the reports with some surprise. and the speeches i heard this morning only strengthen my conviction. with a few exceptions, there is still talk of budgetary restraints, inflation control and a stability pact, whereas 20 of the 27 countries no longer meet all the criteria. many are calling for an economic government, yes. but we want a political europe which is in control of its economic but also social choices and which can intervene in monetary choices. the greek crisis is a sign that germany is in control, that it is germany that is imposing its demands. in the united states, the central bank has just intervened directly to finance the state budget by buying treasury bonds. in europe, the central bank has come to the rescue of the banks, but in greece and more generally in the pigs, it is still the same people who have to pay, namely the employees, civil servants and pensioners, while their countries have also been victims of financial speculation. we do not need reforms, we need a different europe, an economic and social europe that serves the many and not the few.
mr president, unfortunately the timing of the event prevents president juncker from being here, as we have become accustomed to. of course i regret that. we have two very good reports to deepen our discussion at a critical time for the euro area. mr scicluna's report allows us to lay the foundations for a number of aspects of the debate, in particular those relating to the conditions for appointing your successor, mr jean-claude trichet. in terms of democracy, monetary dialogue is an important element, but also in terms of the very functioning of the central bank and its management. the report by our friend sven giegold, mr rehn, calls on you to address matters which are your responsibility and not that of the central bank. the risk we face, as far as the functioning of the euro area is concerned, is that of a dismantling of our social model. when your predecessor, mr almunia, presented the balance sheet of the euro area's ten years of operation, one factor was absolutely glaring, namely the worsening of the divergences between the euro area member states. this is where we are and this is what the drafters of the treaty and the drafters of the stability pact had underestimated. that is what we must take into account. we have to take this into account for two reasons. first, to understand that while sustainability of public finances is a key element, it is not enough. in the face of national powers, the member states have no natural appetite for sanction and therefore their coordination, their cooperation is not good cooperation. that's the spirit you have to invent. that's the magic wand we need. the second essential pillar, which we shall not spare, is the question of tax harmonization. i regret that the 2020 strategy does not even mention the work in progress, which we must resolutely resume, on the harmonization of the corporate tax base.
mr president, in a judgment delivered on 19 march, the court of justice of the european union has just declared that the majority of our parliament has violated a fundamental rule of law by refusing to defend my immunity on the basis of article 10 of the international protocol, as requested by my foreign colleagues, led by mr luca romagnoli. this request was made while i was the subject of violent political, professional and judicial persecution for the crime of "answering journalists who asked me about revisionism and world war ii history that these questions were a matter for historians to debate". that is paragraph 108 of the judgment. i quote him, i quote the court: 'since the purpose of the protocol is to confer rights on members of parliament, it follows that by refraining from taking a decision on the basis of article 10, parliament has violated a rule of law in a sufficiently characteristic way.' the court does not grant my claim for compensation because it considers that the french court of cassation and its eleven judges have totally and definitively exonerated me. it therefore considers that i can no longer claim injury. it is not enough to say that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not compromised. this decision is therefore a sharp repudiation of the partisan maneuvers which deprived me of parliamentary immunity. under pressure, the rapporteur had resorted to a gross procedural trick. this decision sets a precedent which the right-wing nationalists in the european parliament, whose freedom of expression is constantly under attack, can rely on in the future.
mr president, you have just given the tunisian delegation a round of applause. could you ask the tunisian delegation to intervene for the release of taoufik ben brik, which is being demanded by the whole of parliament?
in writing. i am abstaining in thinking of the lithuanian workers sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might feel entitled to vote against the paltry alms that the european elites are willing to give them. but the little that is given can ease their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. in the realm of the eurocrats, good conscience is cheap.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european commission's annual declaration on the euro area and public finances. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that this report, which is rich in analysis and proposals, calls for a strengthening of european economic governance and, in particular, for better coordination of budgetary policies. growth and solidarity are the two keywords that must govern our european economic strategy. growth, because without it we cannot meet the social challenge. solidarity, because it is the raison d'être of the european construction and will be its future.
in writing. i am voting against this report which blindly promotes the neoliberal logic responsible for the economic, social and ecological crisis whose consequences we are all suffering. the text before us is not only dogmatic, but it also bears the mark of contempt for the peoples, and especially for the greek people. how can parliament vote on a text so unworthy that it calls into question the entry of the greeks into the euro area in view of the budget deficit that the policies it endorses have created? this europe is certainly an additional adversary for the peoples.
in writing. i cannot vote for this text, although i do recognize some of its qualities. it is true that it promotes nonproliferation of nuclear weapons and the control of all weapons. he is, of course, in favour of abolishing the death penalty. but it nevertheless promotes the use and research of civil nuclear energy, which everyone knows today must be phased out. it nevertheless endorses the existence of the g20, which has no legitimacy whatsoever. the european union is also committed to the principle of the 'responsibility to protect', which is so vaguely defined that it calls for any kind of interference against the national sovereignty of peoples. for all these reasons and others which i cannot list here, this text does not seem to me to be worthy of the european union as i see it.
in writing. this resolution is another text in which absolute priority must be given to a particular category of people, a category which must of course receive special attention and be taken into account in all national and european policies. today, there are 10 or 12 million roma in the eu. in parallel with others, discussed here on other occasions, it confronts us with a hierarchy of men which now places the roma minority at the top, then non-european migrants, then europeans of non-european origin and finally, at the very bottom, "native" europeans. if we add the 'gender dimension' and the youth movement, we conclude that it is not good in your so-called european union to be a middle-aged man, a european of european origin who is not part of any ethnic, cultural, religious or sexual minority identified as such by you. when will we finally have a policy that serves europeans first? when will we give priority to those poor working people, those middle classes crushed by taxes, those unemployed, those european families who are the vast majority of the inhabitants of the union and the citizens we are responsible for, and about whom you think only on the eve of the elections?
in writing. i supported this resolution in view of the cordoba summit on 8 april 2010 because the inclusion of roma in all spheres of society must be one of the priorities to be defended at european level. i believe that we should not only focus on the situation of the roma in eastern europe, where they are the victims of significant discrimination, but we should also take account of the fact that this problem is also still very strong and more insidious in other european countries, such as france. we also need to ask ourselves how effective the policies are and how they could be improved to really achieve their goals: to enable socioeconomic integration and to achieve full european citizenship for roma.
in writing. i voted against this resolution which would have prevented the adoption of a number of measures which are a step in the right direction, even though the situation is far from perfect, i admit. this text will make it possible to bring cases before the court of justice of the european communities against states which fail to apply their obligations under the principle of non-refoulement on the high seas, whereas at present they are completely exempt from it. it is important that member states operating under the aegis of frontex provide assistance to migrants in distress at sea, irrespective of their nationality, status or the circumstances in which they were found.
in writing. if i understand the report correctly, almost everything becomes a priority, which means that there is no priority. and that we simply demand a bigger budget, that is, more taxes for europeans. the rapporteur's concern to ensure that expenditure financed from the eu budget is not only useful but also effective and that it brings real european added value to national policies is certainly commendable. but in truth, this concern should have been constant over the years. on the one hand, i would remind you that this has not been the case for the last 14 or 15 years, since the court of auditors did not consider itself in a position to approve the implementation of the annual budgets. i am also still looking for concrete proposals in this report to achieve this. i am particularly looking for proposals to put an end to programmes which are nothing more than mere clientelism, unnecessary sprinkling, ideological propaganda or attempts to intervene more in areas where the union has, fortunately, little power and above all no effectiveness.
in writing. despite a positive vote on this report, i would like to stress critical reservations that i have about the priorities for the 2011 budget. i certainly welcome the eu's commitment to supporting youth, innovation and volunteering as structural elements for our society. however, the financial framework is not adequate at all, especially in a context of economic crisis and unemployment: it does not finance any political ambition to bring about real change. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european employment agency is a very good one.
in writing. i am voting against this report on budgetary priorities for the financial year 2011. it is the dogmatic and harmful policies of the eurocracy that i am fighting against all over europe and the world. i cannot decently vote for a budget that endorses so many potential disasters.
in writing. as regards the report on the quality policy for agricultural products, i voted in favour of this report because i think it is extremely relevant on two points. first, it stresses the importance for the european union of defending product quality and makes this a key focus of the european agricultural strategy. secondly, it defends the principle of geographical identification and traditional specialities, presenting them as two elements contributing to european agricultural competitiveness and the preservation of cultural heritage. finally, this report supports the agricultural products of which we are so proud, while advocating the necessary administrative simplifications in the protection of these products.
in writing. the report has an undeniable flaw: it places agricultural policy within the mercantilist logic of the search for maximum profit, which is the opposite of the idea we have of agricultural policy. i cannot therefore vote for it at all. however, in view of the information it contains, i think it is better not to do so. i would not like to help to block such anti-productivist ideas as the desire to establish a 'green footprint' label and the desire to relocate part of agricultural production. i noted the intention to move away from the productivist logic. i regret that these are only possibilities outlined in the text and that their anchoring in a capitalist environment considerably reduces their scope. i do not want to overlook the value of promoting such concepts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the future of food quality policy. the proposal to introduce a european logo for organic food is a positive point. this is both a clear consumer demand and a requirement for the development of the internal market. i come now to the important question of geographical indications and traditional specialities. essential to european agriculture because of the special links established over time between products and soils, they are intimately linked to the tradition and history of taste. they must be preserved as such. i am therefore pleased that we opposed the merger of the two concepts of pdo (appellation of origin) and pgi (protected geographical indication) as proposed by the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's production is not affected by the increase in the price of cereals. finally, let us not forget the work we still have to do in strengthening the protection of geographical indications at international level (in particular through the wto).
in writing. in the vote on the report on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation, i voted for the amendment to paragraph 31, which calls for the introduction of an international financial transaction tax. i am convinced that a tax, even a small one, on these gigantic transactions would bring in a lot of money. this would enable us to devote more resources to combating the ills of our planet and to have the necessary financial resources to achieve the 'millennium development goals'. it is not just a question of justice, but of common sense.
in writing. developing countries, especially the poorest, already hit hard by the 2007 food crisis, are now suffering the full economic and social consequences of the international financial crisis unleashed in developed countries. the latter now tend to reduce their development aid to cope with their own difficulties. the developing countries thus pay twice the price for the disorders of unregulated globalized capitalism. i voted for the guerrero report, which reminds europe of its responsibilities and calls for the commitments it has made in the area of official development assistance, in particular the target of 0.7% of gdp by 2015. in adopting it, parliament also called for the introduction of an international financial transaction tax to finance development, access to global public goods and the adaptation of poor countries to the challenges of climate change. it supports the cancellation of the debt of the least developed countries. all these recommendations are essential in view of the revision of the millennium development goals to be held at the united nations in september. it is the moral duty of the european union to implement these new tools of international solidarity without delay.
in writing. the texts of this parliament sometimes border on the absurd, but i must say that in the case of mr guerrero salom's report you have gone beyond yourself. i shall quickly pass over the unacceptable demand for a world economic and financial government, and the fundamental contradiction of deploring the external dependence of poor countries while advising them to be even more open to world trade. i also want to pass on the hypocritical condemnation of, and i quote, 'the globalised conception of the economy advocating complete deregulation and the rejection of all instruments of public management', a conception which was yours, which is still basically yours, and which you have imposed here for years. but the summit is in paragraph 26, where you propose to follow the advice of george soros! the man who owes his fortune to speculation! the man who, in partnership with other hedge funds, is betting on a collapse of the euro, and speculating on greek debt to bring it about! the man who mocks the social and economic consequences of his actions to impose the world economic order he desires! but it is true that this wish, a unified euro-atlantic bloc, a world government and a world currency, is also yours!
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague enrique guerrero salom to remind member states of their responsibilities towards developing countries in the face of the global challenges of the economic crisis and climate change, for which they are not responsible. europe needs to do more to achieve the millennium development goals, which call for spending at least 0.7% of gdp on poverty reduction in developing countries by 2015. to achieve this, i also supported the creation of a financial transaction tax and the study of possible options for cancelling the debt of the poorest. finally, access to sexual and reproductive health rights remains a priority for socialists, and i have made this point in this report.
in writing. the text has the merit of recommending the establishment of a moratorium on debt and its cancellation for poor countries, of advocating food sovereignty and of committing itself to respect for the ilo. but this does not compensate for the fact that he is firmly in favour of the carbon market and green growth and that he preaches free trade and the proliferation of financial services. this text endorses the relentless logic of liberal dogmatism. so it is harmful. i vote against it.
in writing. to give credit to the european central bank for its action in 2008 is a compulsory exercise, which i refuse to join. the bank did not foresee a major crisis and did not make any sparkling remarks in its regulations, which are far from being completed. and i don't think that lessons have been learned from this crisis: we still trust the handful of anglo-saxon rating agencies that are no more able to rate states today than they were yesterday to rate banks and toxic financial products. we continue to want to "reassure" totally irrational markets that amplify malicious speculation against a state, when we should break speculation by renouncing monetarist orthodoxy. a rapid return to the same policies that contributed to the crisis is being prepared in the name of "public finance sustainability", but at the expense of a possible recovery, and of household purchasing power. and most importantly, we're not doing anything concrete to change the system! legislation that you make appear to be urgent in order to deceive public opinion is pushed back after delicate election deadlines for mr brown and mrs merkel. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. i am voting against this report which blindly promotes the neoliberal logic responsible for the economic, social and ecological crisis whose consequences we are all suffering. the text before us is not only dogmatic, but it also bears the mark of contempt for the peoples, and especially for the greek people. how can parliament vote on a text so unworthy that it calls into question the entry of the greeks into the euro area in view of the budget deficit that the policies it endorses have created? this europe is certainly an additional adversary for the peoples.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr herman van rompuy, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the commission, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european council, first of all, mr president of the european council, on the question of form, it was customary for the president of parliament to speak and there is no mention of his speaking in the minutes or in the minutes. was he not invited or is this a misreport? i wanted to get your feeling. i also wanted to reiterate to you how much parliament - at least a number of us - appreciates the fact that you can come to prepare the meetings of the european council, instead of sending the council, which is not a member of the european council. you said you weren't a dictator, you were a quality democrat. you're not a spectator, you said "i'm a facilitator". mr president, be a political actor and come here to seek the political support we will give you. i should now like to speak on a number of subjects, starting with agriculture. i would like to thank you, mr van rompuy, for having, together with the heads of state and government, corrected an unfortunate omission in the european commission document, since it did not speak of agriculture, and you were right to add one of the main historical policies of the european union, namely agriculture, which is useful for the well-being of the european peoples. secondly, i think that the 2020 document does not give the european union enough ambition as a global actor, especially on international trade. we must demand reciprocity from our partners as representatives on the world stage. i am glad that we have obtained reciprocity with president obama on the eads project for refuelling aircraft. i would also suggest, mr president of the european council, that you join your political influence with that of president buzek so that we invite president obama to come and speak to our european parliament. and if he can't, maybe his vice president, joe biden. i would like to end by making a proposal that now that we have decided on european solidarity, we should have a system of macroeconomic and financial information for the public sector, the member states and the european union, certified by the court of auditors, so that we can have a set of reliable information at the level of the european union.
mr president, mr president of the european council, four points. the first concerns the mandate of the working party you have been given on the excessive deficit procedure and the crisis: do not be satisfied with that agenda because by doing so you would be turning away from what we need. what we need today is economic governance. what that means, no one knows yet. we have been looking for ten years, but the time has come to clarify this point, and if we focus too much on crisis management, we will miss the essential debate, which is how, with a single currency, we can conduct a smart collective game. this intelligent collective game is not just a question of responsibility or solidarity, as you have mentioned, but it is the question of the added value of sharing a currency which is not just a monetary union, but which must also be an economic union, and where the only tool we have had so far, the stability pact, is not enough, because it has never been a growth pact and it is a pact which has not allowed the euro area to live at its best. it is also a pact which has not prevented the existence and aggravation of differences in competitiveness between the economies of the area. and whatever reform of the treaty you envision, whatever reform of the stability pact you envisage, you will not deal with the problem of the divergences in the competitiveness of economies with these tools. so we have to invent new tools. that's the warrant you need to consider. i would add that for years we have been saying that we need concerted timetables, harmonised economic forecasts, shared diagnoses to determine the economic strategies of the euro area member states. that is the issue at stake in the debate and in the mandate which you have today. on the role of the european parliament in this whole affair, what i propose to you, and what i propose to my colleagues here in the european parliament, is that, in the context of a healthy emulation between institutions, we establish our own group of wise men with people of quality, expertise and independence who can make an important intellectual contribution to this debate, which is a critical debate for the future of the euro area and therefore of the european union.
madam president, i would like you to take account of gender parity in the way you manage speaking time. you gave the floor to a man five times in a row.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, having been the rapporteur on this regulation almost five years ago, i am pleased to see that we have put in place a mechanism which works and has even been expanded over the years. the report presented by the commission on the application of the blacklist regulation seems to me to be complete and offers interesting lines of thought. i support the idea of an international blacklist, which is the only guarantee of global harmonization of the level of aircraft safety. i have a few questions to put to the commission. first of all, i would like to know how the exercise of the rights of the defence is carried out when it is not one company that is banned, but all the companies of a state. are all these airlines being audited or only the civil aviation authority of the country concerned and, in this context, how could certain safe airlines escape being blacklisted? another point which seems to me to be very important is the question of aircraft tracking. does the commission follow up all aircraft of a company which has been listed or whose certificate has been withdrawn, to ensure that these aircraft do not fly again under another name? in this context, has the commission identified states which would serve as flag states for the banned companies which thus change their names and their state of registration? secondly, in the event of a blacklisting, does the commission have information on how travel agencies and ticket sellers have informed and compensated travellers or offered alternative solutions? finally, before concluding, i have a question on a specific case: several of us in the house have received what can be described as insistent messages concerning the case of indonesia, where all airlines are banned, asking us to intervene with the commission to remove indonesia from the blacklist. i think that this pressure is unjustified because commercial reasons do not justify putting the lives of passengers at risk and i would like to know what the current situation is in this country and whether, having been on the blacklist for several years, indonesia has made any efforts to correct the alleged safety deficiencies?
madam president, i too would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr jörg leichtfried, on his text and his spirit of cooperation on this matter, and i support in particular his proposals on the financing of aviation security, since we are talking about aviation security and not aviation security. for many years our committee has been fighting for the principle that the member states should be responsible for the most stringent security measures, and i fully support our rapporteur on this point. the safety of travellers is not a matter for travellers alone, but for all citizens, and it is the responsibility of states to take measures to combat terrorism. it is therefore not justified that air passengers alone should be responsible for financing security measures at airports and on board aircraft, especially since in modes of transport such as rail and maritime transport, the states finance security measures in part or in full, as the case may be. i therefore think we must stand firm in the face of the council and defend to the end amendment no 32 in the report adopted by our committee on transport. i would like to make a quick point. while i support the advances in non-discrimination and transparency that the text will bring, i do not believe that the purpose of this directive is to establish a single, identical european system of security charges. while requiring compliance with the common rules, member states should be allowed to maintain their current system of levying fees. in countries such as spain, italy and france, for example, the fees are voted by parliament and in this case the authority which has the power to appeal against the laws must act as an independent supervisory authority. that is the purpose of amendment no 40 which i hope many of you will support when we vote on it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the european greens fully support mr van dalen's report and recommendations. it presents us with a balanced text which is the result of the close cooperation it has been able to establish with the other political groups. we support this report because it sets out the challenges facing the european union's maritime policy, namely a sharp increase in maritime traffic, both international and intra-community, without sacrificing the environment or social issues. this text is part of the logic we want to see applied in all areas: that of a sustainable development policy. it opens up positive avenues for maritime transport to develop under better conditions by 2018. we particularly welcome the fight against the abuse of flags of convenience or ships which are not up to standard. we also retain the protection against piracy. we are in favour of a policy designed to achieve a single european sea, and of the importance attached to the multimodal connection of european ports to their hinterland. we support the simplification of administrative rules for entry and exit from european ports. we are pleased with the promotion of maritime professions and their continuing training. finally, we would like to stress the priority given to environmental issues. in the end, we will always support anything that we believe will promote a competitive maritime transport sector in comparison with road and air transport. mr van dalen's report takes the right measure of the global environmental challenge to which shipping is one of the answers. it is a particularly valuable tool against global warming. we only regret that the amendment we tabled to include the shipping sector in the system of trading in carbon emission allowances was not included by the rapporteur and not accepted by the commission. in our view, no sector of the economy should be exempt from the common rule and, like the air and road sectors, maritime transport, even though it is responsible for a small amount of emissions, must be involved in the reduction effort. we shall therefore be presenting our amendment to the whole of parliament.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an understatement to say that the union needs a genuine strategy for the development of maritime transport, because this is a major issue for the future of our union in terms of food, economic and political independence, as well as environmental protection. to be effective, this strategy must be comprehensive and cover shipbuilding and repair, ports, employment and training of personnel, and safety. the rejection of the directive on the liberalisation of port activities by our parliament in 2006 is, in my view, the founding element of any european maritime transport strategy. parliament calls on the commission to continue its fight against the abuse of flags of convenience. that is good, but it would still take a real fight to start. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. otherwise all our good intentions on security, on job creation, will be in vain. it is a good thing to make state aid to the sector conditional on the fulfilment of social and environmental quality criteria and on the promotion of employment and training of seafarers from the member states of the union, because the only real distortions of competition do not come from state aid but from social, wage and environmental dumping. the best guarantee of safety in maritime transport is well-paid, well-trained crews with good social security and good working conditions. i am pleased to note that there is finally talk of lifelong training for seafarers, of strengthening professional qualifications and skills. it remains to be recognized as a right for all seafarers and to be financed by the employers. i also support the requirements on shipbuilding and the quality of steel. the text before us contains a number of advances, but there are still many contradictions. it remains locked in the dogma of free and undistorted competition. it is still too much affected by the pressure of the shipping lobby and the worst ultra-liberal utopias. for example, how can we support the employment of european seafarers and request studies to determine to what extent new technologies could replace seafarers? how can we defend the reduction of dumping, while at the same time calling for freedom of movement for workers who do not even have the same rights in the union? how can we emphasize safety when self-declaration is the norm and when some, in the wake of the smell of profit, do not hesitate to transport products which may prove to be particularly dangerous for man and nature without declaring them? we still have a lot of work to do, but we will do it together because it is essential that a good, high-level maritime policy also and above all requires respect for these hard-nosed men and women who often risk their lives to meet the needs of others.
mr president, commissioner, it is essential to have an ambitious and long-term maritime transport policy at european level. it must take account of the specificities of the sector and respond to the challenges it faces. shipping is a strategic sector for the european union in several respects, firstly because of its role in growth and employment, its international dimension, its ecological and sustainable character. it was pointed out that it carried 80 per cent of world trade. the european commission's communication and mr van dalen's report show the way forward, set strategic objectives and identify key areas of action for the european union's maritime transport policy. i would like to stress a few points that we have made with my colleague, mrs vlasto, in the committee on transport, namely that the european union must act to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport, in particular by improving working conditions and career opportunities in this sector, without, however, dissociating the objective of competitiveness from those of sustainable development, fair competition and safety. in environmental matters, eu policy should promote the internalisation of external costs and the establishment of maritime emission control zones. finally, in anticipation of the increase in maritime traffic, investment in the modernization and expansion of port infrastructure should be encouraged. it is important that the european parliament sets out today its vision for the eu's maritime policy until 2018. the excellent report by mr van dalen, which has received very wide support in the commission, will, i hope, receive equally massive support in parliament, which will give us a lot of strength in the negotiations ahead.
mr president, mrs paulsen, thank you for your report. i would like to commend the work done by the various fictitious rapporteurs in the preparation of this dossier, in particular that of my group, mrs jeggle. this is a matter of varying sensitivity between european countries. not all producers and consumers have the same perception of the subject. the fact remains that european regulation is gradually creating a very strict standard which i believe we must use much better in international negotiations and, in particular, in the control of products that are imported. but as has already been said, these rules come at a cost and we see every day that their cost is higher for the farmers, higher for the various operators at a time when, precisely, the profitability of agriculture is profoundly affected. that is a justification for the common agricultural policy. if we spend 100 euros per head of population each year to finance a common agricultural policy, animal welfare is one of the reasons why this compensation is needed.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament, and in particular mrs paulsen, for the own-initiative report on eu animal welfare action plan. the report is not only a reflection of what has passed, but also contains important and useful ideas for a future strategy on animal welfare. the action plan, adopted in 2006, has basically been a success. it has brought together separate eu initiatives into a single vision on animal welfare, and its implementation has been broadly satisfactory. that said, the commission shares the view expressed during this catch-the-eye session that enforcement remains a serious issue and efforts need to be maintained and enhanced to ensure proper implementation. regarding the question from chris davies, we will provide a written answer on that particular question but, basically, the commission is focused on implementation. the rules adopted should be implemented. it is not only about the rule of law, but also about fair competition. we also agree on the need to promote fair competition between eu and non-eu producers. animal welfare is also a ‘non-trade concern’ that has to be defended and explained during the wto negotiations. our future strategy will have to make that clear. i note the call for a new action plan for 2011-15, and am pleased to inform you that the commission has already started work in that direction. our ambition is to establish a new strategy for animal welfare that will adopt a holistic approach, taking into account the overall costs for eu producers and the effects of welfare measures on their competitiveness. as mentioned in the report, article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union underlines the need for consideration for all animals. the idea of a general european animal welfare law, encompassing all animals, is also a very interesting one. such a general law could be the basis for future initiatives, including legislation, but also information to the consumer, education, research and promotion of higher standards. i also note and appreciate the support for the establishment of a european network of reference centres for animal welfare. this would assist eu institutions, member states and stakeholders in their actions to promote animal welfare initiatives. i share your opinion that the future strategy should carefully look at costs and competitiveness. we must ensure consistency between our policies, keeping in mind the overall sustainability of our proposals from a global perspective. the report also stressed that the eu budget should correspond to our ambitions – in particular by providing sufficient resources for research, new technologies and techniques in the field of animal welfare. it also stressed the need for sufficient resources for proper monitoring and support to eu producers. as i have said, the commission welcomes all these ideas – which collectively show that animal welfare is high on the eu’s agenda. the commission plans to present a new eu strategy for animal welfare in 2011.
in writing. animal welfare is an important issue. european regulations in this area must be applied rigorously, as mrs paulsen's report recommends. we must also ensure that the animal welfare standards imposed in the eu are applied reciprocally to products entering the european territory. our farmers and the european agri-food industry must not be penalised for incurring additional costs to meet eu requirements. animal welfare standards must coexist with european trade policy, with the protection of our jobs or with the practice of hunting activities which allow the regulation of wildlife which is essential for the balance of biodiversity. i also have reservations about the creation of a european network of reference centres for animal welfare. as rapporteur on the 2008 discharge for the eu decentralised agencies, i am well aware of the problem of the creation of agencies, which unfortunately lacks overall coherence. this issue, which is being addressed by the interinstitutional working group on agencies, needs to be resolved before considering the creation of new agencies.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, the report i am presenting to parliament is an attempt to explain that agriculture has a place and a role to play in the fight against global warming. nature this week - and volcanoes in particular - reminds us that they can have a major impact on human activities and the climate. but it still requires that men, and europe in particular, take responsibility for combating what is called global warming. my report tries to show that agriculture can continue to reduce its carbon emissions, reduce its fossil fuel consumption and, above all, on the other hand, participate very actively in carbon sequestration in order to achieve, at the global level, a lower proportion of carbon emissions and a higher proportion of carbon sequestered and sequestered. this report tries to show that in agriculture we should move from a compartmentalized approach which consists of opening up a directive on soils, water, pesticides, whatever else, whenever we have a problem, to try to tackle the agricultural question with the ambition of dealing with it in a comprehensive, systemic way. in this approach, we must be able to find ways of ensuring that agriculture, as i said earlier, not only reduces its energy consumption, but at the same time participates very actively in carbon sequestration. in particular, the role of photosynthesis, biomass and, above all, what i am particularly fond of, also related to soils, the capacity of european soils to store organic carbon. i think that the path i am opening up in this report, which i hope will be followed in the vote in plenary in brussels, must enable european agriculture to enter a phase of sustainability, to ensure an ecological transition to agriculture that would put it ahead of a number of other continents or other agriculture to ensure that it is capable of being economically efficient, ecologically efficient and, from that point on, socially efficient. this report therefore deals with a particular issue, the fight against global warming and agriculture, but it is intended - i hope anyway - to open up other perspectives to feed in particular the debate on the future of agricultural policy after 2013. i will address the commission, i will address - as i have done many times - the committees on agriculture and i will also address the various ministers when i have the opportunity. i think we should take a turn. the 2013 cap must be ambitious. it must be based on objectives which enable citizens to understand why we need a common agricultural policy. we need a common agricultural policy because the agricultural europe must ensure food security and also commit itself to the path of sustainability. that is what i propose in this report and what i hope parliament, by a large majority, will agree with me.
mr president, i would like to thank our colleague mr dorfmann for his excellent work on this report. i think it covers the question perfectly as it stands today, on the basis of the commission's proposals. i would like to address myself to the commissioner in particular, as this work has been going on for a number of months. it is creating a certain commotion in several sectors of our countries, which are in danger of being downgraded, and this downgrading is taking place or could take place at some point - and this will be the subject of tomorrow's oral question - where many productions are in particular difficulty. so we need to move forward and move fast. i do not think we can wait three years before we can give a clear answer to the farmers who are affected by this zoning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that at this time we must have words of support and sympathy for all those who have been or are still victims, in one way or another, of the disruption of traffic, just as we must have words of sympathy for the employees of the airlines who, with the few resources at their disposal, have tried to meet the needs of the passengers. we do not want to blend our voices with those who criticize a lot but offer little and still claim to have the truth once the storm has passed. we are saying that the principle of user safety must be reaffirmed as the principle of priority. it is better to have a dissatisfied user alive than a user who unfortunately dies in transit. i would also like to say that europe is suffering from a lack of a credible europe. better cooperation, better unity, would probably have made it possible to communicate better, to explain ourselves better, to go to those who simply wanted information. we believe it is important to strengthen the powers of the european security agency and to enable it to rely on a permanent scientific advisory body, which would enable it to support its decisions in all circumstances. i think that we must work even more to ensure that the means of transport which cover the whole of europe are complementary, and that we must also work to ensure that they are consistent. finally, mr president, if i may, in order to remove all possible suspicion, i would propose that a committee of inquiry be set up in the european parliament to look into this matter.
mr president, i would first of all like to stress that the precautionary principle applied by most european governments in closing their airspace in a targeted and temporary manner was a wise and prudent decision. the safety of our fellow citizens must take precedence over all other considerations and, in these circumstances, the attitude of certain airlines, which are calling for the immediate and total opening of airspace on the basis of one or two test flights, seems to be indecent to say the least. i think it was mr hénin who spoke earlier about the complementarity of transport modes, particularly with the train, and i take this opportunity to say how much i regret that the paralysis of air traffic has been accentuated in some countries, such as france, by the disruption of rail transport due to irresponsible and incomprehensible strikes in these circumstances. i would like to return to our subject, and welcome the commission's decision to authorise public aid to airlines affected by the current disruptions. this is a sensible decision in a context already marked by the crisis, but such aid must be exceptional. in this respect, i would like to see the exemplary compensation provided by airlines to their customers who suffered flight cancellations included among the criteria for awarding them. it is not acceptable for certain airlines to abuse the force majeure clause in order to escape their obligation to compensate passengers under regulation no 261/2004. travellers are victims of the present situation and, if no alternative solution is offered to them, they do not have to bear the financial cost. in addition, travel agencies are exempted from the obligation to reimburse travellers for unused flights. that's not normal either. the airlines and travel agencies have insurance to cover them in exceptional cases, such as the one we have been experiencing for the last few days, and we must therefore ensure that travellers are properly compensated for flights that have been cancelled.
mr president, commissioner, the crisis we have been experiencing for the last few days also shows - and this has not been said enough - the failure of the lisbon strategy, which the european union has been able to implement over the last decade. this failure, which is based on deregulation and unbridled competition, shows today, with this crisis, that the european union has been unable to coordinate the necessary approach which would have allowed not only to protect those who are stuck in these airports, but also to draw a perspective by, for example, letting the airlines do the testing. i therefore ask the european union to take action. it is said that we need more europe, yes, we need a stronger public service from the european union in a sector as important as air transport.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president of the commission, i think that this programme is perhaps too timid in the face of the upheavals and challenges of today, and i think that we are entitled to expect more ambition from the commission, especially since you have committed yourself to it. on financial regulation first, i fully understand what michel barnier is trying to do. it is a good thing, but i think we could have gone further and considered other options, such as the separation of banking activities, taxation of financial transactions or the outright ban on derivatives, which is now being considered in the united states. however, and this is even more important to me, i believe that we must do everything possible to give priority to the real economy, to sustainable investment, which creates jobs, as opposed to the current ultra-financialisation of the economy, and i would like to see concrete projects that would go in this direction. today, i don't see them in this program. i also think we need big plans. if there is a useful moment to revive the idea of a railway europe, it is today, with the crisis we have experienced. today, we have 28,000 flights a day in the european union. it is really time to revive the railway europe that has been talked about for decades. but i believe that nothing will be done without real economic coordination and economic governance. in this respect, i regret that it is the council which is in charge of a working party on this issue; i would have preferred it to be your commission. we have a vital need for budgetary, economic and industrial coordination. the creation of a european monetary fund is needed and must be accompanied by the implementation of measures to consolidate the public finances of the member states. we need to work, even if it is a word we no longer use, towards fiscal convergence. i am thinking in particular of the question of corporation tax. and we will need to work on a resource of our own for the union budget. i think that would be a strong move, perhaps a step back on the path to growth. i would like to say a few words about the future economic strategy of the union for 2020: please do not give up on the quantified targets for poverty and education. i think that in this respect you will have the support of the whole european parliament. this is the model of european society we want and love.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioners, we must ensure that the pledges of donations made at the donor conference are now translated into real money and that the money actually reaches the recipients. of course, i do not believe that this is enough to rebuild haiti in a sustainable way, when we are so indebted to the haitian people. the european citizens themselves have been very generous in their solidarity, but unfortunately there is a great risk of forgetting or making people forget the tragedy of our haitian brothers. but as you said, there is an emergency: an emergency because other cyclones may come and worsen the living conditions of the people even more; urgently rebuild homes and buildings, such as schools and hospitals, as the haitian government begins to evacuate some of the camps; the commission is also aware of the urgent need to coordinate and distribute food aid and health care more effectively and to develop a new sustainable agricultural and rural project to ensure food security in haiti. all aid and the coordination of international aid must be aimed at guaranteeing the haitian people access to fundamental rights. for example, why not include the fact that all public contracts for reconstruction should be conditional on these rights and contain clauses for employment, housing, education or health? there can be no proper coordination of aid and reconstruction without the support of the people themselves and their trade union organizations, non-governmental organizations and peasant organizations. we should encourage the development of a new project for haiti aimed at eradicating exclusion, poverty, dependence and economic and political domination. let us never forget that the terrible poverty of the haitian people is not due to a terrible earthquake. it is also the result of the domination and plunder of many countries on haiti, to which we owe an effective duty of solidarity while respecting its economic and political sovereignty: that of the haitian people.
mr president, madam commissioner, at this very moment, hundreds of thousands of people are still living in makeshift camps and with the rainy season and hurricanes coming, there is a real urgency. in view of the multiplicity of humanitarian actors on the ground and the lack of state capacity, all means must be used to strengthen the coordination of aid under the auspices of the united nations, and to deliver aid in a coherent and effective manner. i went to new york for the international donor conference on 31 march and i welcome the contribution of the european union of 1.3 billion euros for the reconstruction of haiti over the next three years. for the first time, the european union has spoken with one voice through mrs ashton. the international community has promised substantial aid, but the difficulties now lie in the proper use of these funds and in the choice of the means and bodies to implement aid, knowing that the main actor in this reconstruction must be the haitian people. the agricultural sector must be at the forefront and we must strengthen the agricultural production capacity of this country. the european parliament will be following very closely the reconstruction process, the use of these funds, and i would remind you how important it is to finally think about the creation of the civil protection force, which has been long awaited.
mr president, europe has contributed millions of euros, tents, food, soldiers, doctors. all this is very well, but i would like to quote jean-yves jason, mayor of port-au-prince, who in february used the word 'catastrophe' not to refer to the consequences of the earthquake but to the total disorganization of the humanitarian work that followed. the question we must ask ourselves is: how can we prevent this disorganization, which has cost haiti so much, from happening again? the answer to this question, mr president, madam commissioner, is one that we all know, and it has been mentioned here: the creation of a european civil security force. i would like to ask you again: when will the commission finally decide to propose to parliament the creation of precisely such a force, a single body, a single doctrine of commitment, identical means of command, transport and communication? it's possible that he did. it can be implemented quickly before the next disaster. i ask you now to stop talking about coordination and to act.
president of the commission. − it is true that, quite surprisingly, some national politicians are making an intergovernmental reading of the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty was agreed precisely to increase the european dimension; to reinforce the powers of the european parliament; to make it easier to take decisions by qualified majority voting; and to reinforce the role of the commission in economic surveillance and external affairs. this reading is therefore quite surprising, but it is indeed happening. the role of the commission is, of course, to be the guardian of the treaties, in accordance with article 117 of the lisbon treaty, to protect european law and to be firm about the respect of european law, because the day the european union is no longer a community of law it will no longer be a real union. secondly, its role is to promote initiatives and to take the lead in initiatives. to that end it will do its job in trying to come forward with proposals which i hope will have the backing of this parliament. in my political guidelines i mentioned the special relationship with parliament, and i really intend to make that a reality.
president of the commission. − as you said, mr karas, there is no decision yet. there was a first debate with the finance ministers, and in fact the commission will present a communication next month on reinforced economic governance. we aim to reinforce the preventive and corrective arm of the stability and growth pact. we will make proposals for a more effective and broader surveillance of intra-euro-area macroeconomic imbalances and we will explore the options for the creation of a crisis resolution mechanism, but we will concentrate on substance. we believe it is possible, with the current treaties, to do much more in terms of surveillance of the euro area and of the economic and monetary union if there is indeed a willingness on the part of the member states to cooperate and respect the treaties.
president of the commission. − it is true, mr schulz, that the lisbon treaty does not allow the so-called ‘bailout’ of member states. the solution found so far – which has not yet been activated because it has not yet been requested – is, according to the commission, fully in line with the treaty. i want to underline this. i know a debate is going on in some circles in germany – and indeed in some other member states, but in particular in germany – and i want to say that it is simply wrong that what we have been contemplating is some kind of bailout. it is not. it is a coordination of loans. the commission will have this responsibility. the imf will also be in the scheme which, i have to say, is a creative one. it is a solution that was possible only after extensive discussions with our member states, but it is fully in line with the treaties and of course it respects the provisions of the lisbon treaty. let me conclude on a political note to say that i find it quite extraordinary that it was so difficult to find a solution of solidarity for greece when one could be found for latvia, hungary and romania. if we can find those solutions of solidarity and responsibility outside the euro area, i think it is quite obvious that we should also find them in the euro area.
president of the commission. − i have been speaking about this matter with those leaders and others for many weeks, so i can tell you very frankly, mr schulz, that unfortunately the only solution possible was this one. the commission had asked from the beginning for a more concrete signal of solidarity with greece, of course always respecting the principle of responsibility. but what we have to do now is to to ensure that greece can be encouraged to return to market financing as soon as possible and in fact the solution found was one where the euro-area member states’ loans will be granted at non-concessional interest rates. the pricing for loans by the imf was considered an appropriate benchmark for setting euro-area member states’ bilateral loan conditions, albeit with some adjustments which were agreed on 11 april.
president of the commission. - first of all, mr verhofstadt, and in reply to mr schulz, let us be absolutely clear and honest with each other: if you have questions you want to ask mrs merkel, you must ask her. i am not here to answer for mrs merkel. i am here to answer on behalf of the commission. i want to be clear. let us also be clear from the commission's point of view. the solution that is found strictly respects what is called the no-bailout clause. we have, of course, been very careful about this. as far as the measures we are going to take are concerned, the communication and the proposals we are going to make will be presented next month. i am talking about communication for stronger governance in the euro area. a policy debate has already taken place and olli rehn has been given a mandate by the commission for a first discussion with the finance ministers. i can therefore tell you that in the course of may you will know the meaning of the measures we will present for the future in favour of strengthening governance in the euro area and in the european union in general.
president of the commission. - mr president, a concrete answer to this question: i can tell you that the direction of our thinking is against the idea of creating a new institution within the framework of economic and monetary union. i am not sure, at least personally, that this is the right idea, but i can tell you, personally, since there is no decision yet from the college, that the idea of a financial stability facility in the euro area seems to me to be a good one. we are also exploring various ways of providing and strengthening insurance mechanisms such as those which respond to the concerns which gave rise to the idea of the european monetary fund.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the commission, i would have liked a commission president who simply said to ask germany to lend at the rate at which it has to borrow. that's three percent. you could at least say so publicly; it would be part of the debate in germany, but you are not able to say these simple things. i would like to ask another question about acta. you've been negotiating since 2008 the acta agreement, against piracy and counterfeiting. in march, a european parliament resolution called for you to reduce the acta negotiations to counterfeiting. you will publish tomorrow - thank you, we have been waiting for this for a year - the evaluation of the debates and a text adopted at the end of the new zealand summit. you know that at the end of these negotiations parliament will have to say yes or no. would it not be wiser to involve this parliament more clearly and thus have transparency in the negotiations? otherwise you will find yourself in the same situation with this parliament as you did with swift. i therefore ask you to be more transparent and to give us the negotiating texts, just as they are given to the big companies. parliament is worth a great deal of effort.
president of the commission. - mr president, mr cohn-bendit, there is no doubt about it, and i have the greatest respect for this parliament. that is why the commission, and more specifically commissioner karel de gucht, has obtained the authorization of our partners in the negotiations to make all the negotiating texts public. they will be made public, as you know, tomorrow, april 21st. this negotiation began before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, as you will no doubt be aware, and we also have an interest in closely involving parliament in it. there are new powers for parliament in terms of international negotiations and the commission is in favour of an increased role for parliament in supporting international negotiations.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the commission, let's not play with words: whether you ask for it or not, if you do not publish transparency, you cannot continue the negotiations, since you have the lisbon treaty. so the problem is not that you ask your partners to publish the reports for parliament; you must do it, because otherwise parliament will never say 'yes' to you, because you are now in the treaty of lisbon. in the lisbon treaty, therefore, you are obliged today to be transparent with parliament, because in the end you must have a 'yes' from parliament, which is not certain, given the state of negotiations and the text we know.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, i am pleased to be back at the european parliament and i am looking forward very much to this debate on relations with latin america. i would like to begin by thanking mr salafranca for his excellent report. i think it illustrates very well the convergence of views between our two institutions on the importance of – and, as he has rightly said, the prospects for – the european union’s partnership in this region. i welcome very much the commitment of parliament to strengthen relations with latin america, including through the interparliamentary dialogues. our joint efforts are central to developing a consistent policy and a strong presence in the region. i agree that the upcoming summit is a good opportunity to reiterate our commitment to the region and our determination to deepen the partnership. as the report rightly points out, the partnership has been a success. today the eu is latin america’s second-largest trading partner and the biggest investor in the region. we are expanding our cooperation beyond economic issues to cover key strategic issues – climate change, non-proliferation, tackling drugs, the promotion of peace and security worldwide. with this in mind, the commission last year set out its strategy for latin america in the communication called ‘the european union and latin america: global players in partnership’. our main conclusions were to step up the regional dialogue and support regional integration, to strengthen bilateral relationships – taking into account the diversity of the region – and to adapt cooperation programmes to make them focused and results-oriented. i am pleased we have taken a number of initiatives since then. we have worked very closely with brazil and mexico on strategic partnerships and with chile on the association for development and innovation. with peru and colombia we have completed negotiations on a multi-party trade agreement and we expect to complete negotiations for an association agreement with central america in the near future and are working to resume negotiations with mercosur. we have intensified our policy dialogues on a range of issues – sustainable development, migration and the fight against illicit drugs. these are important negotiations and dialogues. they strengthen our relationship. there is also much that we can do in practice on regional integration. it is very important that the combined weight of the eu and latin america is able to focus on priority areas. with regard to the summit, i agree very much that this is an important occasion. we want to have an action plan that covers cooperation on key issues – science, technology and innovation, environment, climate change and so on. secondly, we want to acknowledge the progress that has been made with the various subregions and strengthen bilateral partnerships. thirdly, as mr salafranca said, we want to launch the investment fund and to establish the eu-latin america and caribbean foundation. we are working hard to strengthen those relationships between the european union and latin america in what is, of course, a fast-changing world and where we can maximise the potential that we have. i am very keen to hear views from members of this house and to respond to any questions.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before the madrid summit, in a context of financial, social and environmental crisis, the european union has a role to play, a role of development cooperation. as a champion of human rights and development aid, she faces many challenges in latin america. the eu is the largest donor, with almost €3 billion over 10 years. the committee on development welcomes the commission's commitment to implementing the millennium development goals, particularly in education. i am also pleased to see that the afet report recognises femicide and prioritises the fight against climate change. i regret, however, that there are no concrete measures and no real strategy for development. after copenhagen, the development committee called on the eu to pay attention to innovative projects in latin america, such as those presented at the cochabamba summit this week or the yasuni itt project in ecuador. respect for the political, social, environmental and cultural rights of indigenous peoples must be at the heart of our transatlantic relations. we also insisted on the respect of ilo conventions, which are being flouted in colombia. minimum ecological and social standards must be respected. finally, we regret the absence of any reference to public services, water and health in the afet report. personally, i do not believe in the proliferation of study structures with ridiculous budgets, which do not allow for a real dialogue with civil society. i do not believe that it is appropriate to open up more budget lines that cut into development aid lines for ambiguous purposes. i do not believe in any agreement that does not give priority to respect for human rights and the environment. the eu-latin america partnership is not just about protecting trade benefits. the free trade agreements with peru and colombia are a poor counter-example. our duty is to promote regional integration and to oppose any agreement signed which would weaken this integration. it is our responsibility to uphold human rights and respect for the environment in all our external relations.
madam president, there are many interesting things in mr salafranca's report. it's very thorough. europe cannot ignore relations with a group which, as recalled in recital j of the report, comprises 600 million people, represents 10% of world gross domestic product and to which we are linked by special historical ties, especially with regard to the latin nations such as spain, portugal, italy, many of whose nationals have come to live in argentina, and even france, which is still present in guyana. i regret, however, that the report does not address two essential issues more directly. firstly, the problem of globalisation, of free trade imposed on the world, of the international division of labour, which is falsely presented as the panacea and which is causing extremely serious economic and social problems, not only in europe but also in latin america. secondly, the other problem is that of independence from big brother, that is to say, from the american big brother, to whom we are not enemies, but finally, it must be remembered that the monroe doctrine, which at the time was supposedly intended to prevent any european recolonisation of latin america, has been transformed into a de facto protectorate, the effects of which were seen, a few years ago, in particular, by the brutality of the intervention in panama. so i agree that we should deal with issues such as the production of narcotics, but we are not in charge of dictating to the people of latin america law, reason, justice, equality between men and women. we feel that we should concentrate on the most important problems.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in kyrgyzstan is indeed particularly unstable. yet it was, and perhaps still is, one of the countries that seemed most open to the establishment of democratic institutions. the tulip revolution in 2005 has once again raised immense hopes. mr bakiev has failed, unable to respond to the needs and demands of the people, allowing corruption to develop, taking part in it himself with a certain family spirit, emptying the coffers, if certain statements are to be believed, and installing an increasingly authoritarian regime, for which political opponents, human rights defenders and journalists have largely paid the price. after the riots of april 7, a provisional government was established. but mr bakiev does not seem to be giving up, even though he has left the country, and there were indeed new riots, as you said, yesterday in the south of the country and around the capital. commissioner, this country is indeed of considerable strategic importance, and not just in military terms. it must not be the playground of some great powers. the european union, despite some speeches, is still not sufficiently present in this region of the globe. its support, its diplomatic presence remain timid. the only way to see this is to read the news reports that are coming in about the situation in that country. the only countries mentioned are the united states, russia and kazakhstan, which currently holds the presidency of the oecd. however, the support of the european union is essential to ensure the independence of this country. you are right, madam high representative, the priority must be to restore the rule of law, but we must go beyond that very quickly and put in place, as some of my colleagues have already said, a real strategy for this region of the world. yes, we must help this country fight poverty; 40% of the population lives below the poverty line. yes, we must facilitate economic development and, as you said, particularly in education, health but also in relation to water, which is a key priority in this region of the world. yes, of course we must support democracy and the defence of human rights. this is the absolute emergency today. our commitment, madam commissioner, can and must be to prevent this country from sliding into fundamentalism and a new authoritarian regime. we are not here to interfere in the internal affairs of this country, but to help the kyrgyz people to regain confidence in democracy. this is the key to this country being a driving force in this part of the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the europeana project is taking on a new and ambitious dimension. this digital library of the european union will offer an approach to our culture in all its diversity and richness. the strong involvement of our various countries in this project is essential. a crucial aspect of this initiative is a fundamental value: respect for cultural and linguistic diversity. one of the horizons of our continent is africa, but we have darkened that horizon with slavery and colonialism. we owe these people a debt of gratitude and reparation. financial compensation alone cannot meet this need, but we can, through the europeana project, help to give back to the african peoples parts of their culture in its oral literature dimension. amadou hampâté bâ, a malian intellectual, said: "in africa, when an old man dies, it is like a library burning". working to digitise oral literature, often collected by teams of ethnologists and anthropologists, and to promote their free access through europeana, thus allowing them to have a universal dimension, would be a way of safeguarding and making alive the cultural diversity of humanity, to which we are all attached.
i would like to congratulate mrs lambert and mr moraes on the excellent work they have done, which will enable us to formally adopt the regulation establishing the european asylum support office in a few days' time, once the air situation has been restored. i think we will all agree on one thing: we should be very happy about the forthcoming creation of this office. the bureau, which is firmly committed to practical cooperation, will help to reduce the serious differences which persist between the practices of the various member states in the field of asylum, despite a first phase of harmonization, which has been initiated with tampere. this will enable us to ensure the coherence which is lacking in current practice. i would also like to stress the important role that civil society, through its participation in the consultative forums, will have in this office. the commission will provide, through its field work, an informed view of the difficulties encountered by asylum seekers and also on shortcomings in national systems. but we must admit that there is a certain bitterness in this matter. for the european parliament, it is the regret that it cannot play a full role in the appointment of the bureau director, for example. and, for the bureau itself, it is the impossibility of taking part in the establishment of a system of obligatory solidarity between the member states to relieve the countries on the doorstep of the european union. in practice, this voluntary solidarity is paid for in words. but if we refuse to even discuss a more binding system, how can we achieve that? this is still an important issue in our discussions and we will continue to remind our partners, the council and the commission, of this. the creation of this office is a perfect illustration of the need to establish a common european asylum system. all member states are calling for this when it comes to declarations such as the european pact on asylum and immigration in 2008. but strangely enough, these same member states seem to have amnesia when it comes to putting words into action and translating their commitments to common rules into texts. it is regrettable, for example, to see the eagerness with which the council is adopting a whole series of measures to combat illegal immigration, as at the last jha council in february. but he is more frugal in the negotiations on the asylum package, which has been blocked for several months already. rather than a purely political and opportunistic display, carried out through repressive measures, i call on the member states to really build a europe of solidarity. on the one hand, we know that these repressive measures are a significant threat to the right of access to asylum in europe for people who, due to the multiplication of screening and other barriers, are undertaking increasingly dangerous journeys. on the other hand, europe could finally boast of a real harmonization of asylum procedures, based on the granting of real guarantees to asylum seekers. as we can see, on the asylum package, the resistance of the states is strong and the tendency is to maintain national practices. these resistances are echoed by arguments about the budgetary costs of such a common policy, which would seem unbearable in a crisis context. the european union has a huge responsibility in the field of asylum. we must stress that to date the vast majority of third countries, which are less fortunate than we are, have taken their share of the refugees. we hope that this asylum package will soon be as successful as the bureau's, because action is urgently needed.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the right of asylum is one of the fundamental values of the union and no one dares to publicly call it into question in his speeches. however, the reality of european and member state policies in this area is questionable. it was in 1999 that the european union began to harmonise its policies on this matter and it now seems to be welcoming the dramatic fall in the number of asylum seekers. we in the gue/ngl could also welcome this, if such a figure reflected the improvement in the human rights situation throughout the world. we all know that's not true. if necessary, our debates on thursday afternoon, when they take place, are there to prove it. since 2004, in particular, we have seen a downward harmonisation of reception procedures and conditions. there are considerable differences in practice between countries and we know that some of the applications have been outsourced and that some applicants no longer have the opportunity to submit these applications. the largest decline in the number of applicants was in france. as a human rights activist in france, i am well placed to know what these results are due to. it is enough to have accompanied an asylum seeker once to the ofpra services to know what is going on. it is unbearable to see how these men and women are being asked to present evidence of the torture they have suffered. the proposal we are considering today therefore seems like a breath of fresh air. it contributes to improving the implementation of a european asylum system. it is intended to promote practical cooperation between member states, in particular by improving access to accurate information on countries of origin, and that is a good thing. most of the proposals made by the european parliament at first reading have been adopted by the council and we know that we owe this mainly to the swedish presidency. you should be thankful. i would add that sweden is a model for me in a way and i would very much like other countries to follow suit in this area. we have supported our rapporteur at first reading and at second reading in committee, and i too would like to congratulate and thank her. we will do the same in the plenary and we hope very much that this small step will mark a new turning point in european policy in this area. instead of europe turning in on itself in what we dare to call a fortress here on these benches, we can welcome these men and women who have the right to asylum, as proclaimed in international texts and the european convention on human rights, which we will soon ratify.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank you very much for your report, mrs krehl. i would also like to express my gratitude to mr kirilov. he has made a very special contribution to the fact that we have been able to discuss this proposed amendment to the general regulation today so quickly through all the institutional channels and to adopt it soon in parliament - i hope - by a large majority, so that the points envisaged can be implemented quickly. this is a good sign of the fruitful dialogue between the institutions, the council, parliament and the commission, and a good example of the interaction that is already working. what are we pursuing with the proposed amendment? the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. we accept the council's compromise proposal, which also has broad support in parliament, because it is important that we help quickly and specifically and get the programme under way. the common and overarching objective of this initiative is to accelerate the implementation of the programmes. we have recently presented the first strategy report and also seen what has not gone so well in the first years of the current programme period and what has developed quite well. we must say, with a certain self-criticism, that we must tackle the question of complicated rules here and there. i think that this is what has been achieved with the present - the third - amendment to the current programme. the commission also intends to contribute to crisis management. what can be done? to give you a few examples: the harmonization of thresholds for large projects up to eur 50 million, simpler rules for the modification of operational programmes when this is necessary to deal with the crisis, the promotion of energy efficiency measures in housing and in the renovation of housing, something which is not only in the sense of energy saving but also has an impact on the construction industry. the current arrangement primarily serves the existing liquidity problems of the five countries concerned - romania, hungary and the three baltic states - and, as i have said, is also intended to contribute to an accelerated absorption of funds through increased flexibility. the €775 million earmarked for early disbursement will enable many projects to be implemented more quickly. finally, i would like to refer to the eur 6.2 billion advance already granted in 2009. this shows that although the structural funds are not originally, nor will they be in the future, a crisis fire-fighter, we are nevertheless developing the flexibility, if necessary, to make an appropriate contribution in times of crisis with our resources. i thank you and look forward to the discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, after months of collegial and constructive work with the rapporteur, mr kirilov, i would like to thank him here. i would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the quality of the work carried out with the council, particularly since the spanish presidency. this is all the more important as we are debating a regulation tonight, the measures of which are awaited by thousands of actors on the ground. i am convinced that for these actors on the ground, regional policy is the best way of making the european union a reality in their own territory, in their own region. however, regional policy is too often perceived as complex and constraining, even though it is designed to help them. it is therefore time to change its image by simplifying its rules of use. the 350 billion in european funds are at the service of our fellow europeans. today we are implementing a much-needed response on the ground, in the context of the economic and social crisis we are all experiencing. if i were to take only a few aspects of this important text, i would say that it brings us more flexibility and more solidarity in europe. more flexibility because the proposed simplification measures reduce the amount of information to be provided, reduce controls and allow more flexibility on revenue generating projects. but it is also more solidarity, because exceptional measures are being taken to combat the economic crisis, such as financial advances - as the commissioner said - or mrs krehl and a new calculation system. with the final vote at the beginning of may, we will therefore be giving a great deal of support to the recipients of european funds and to the training services, but let us not forget that there is still a lot to be done on simplification.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are unanimous today in welcoming the measures to simplify the allocation of the structural funds proposed in mr kirilov's report. however, as chairman of parliament's working party on the european social fund, i am outraged by the length of the revision procedure currently under way. the commission's initial proposal is dated june 2009. although the aim of this revision is to help the member states to cope with the economic and social crisis, it took the council six months to reach agreement. this is unacceptable. it is true that the legislative procedure has been changed along the way, thus establishing a parity of powers between the council and parliament. but today we, the representatives of the european union, cannot justify these delays to the citizens. i would like to make a brief comment here to commend the european parliament for the responsibility it has shown in agreeing as much as possible with the council's position, so as not to delay the procedure any further. but i must say i'm disappointed. we need a european union which can take swift decisions which have an effective impact on the ground. now, let's look a little further into the future. the simplification measures proposed today to combat the economic crisis are positive, but i would add that they could have been even more ambitious if the procedures applying to the current programming period, 2007-13, had not been so burdensome and complicated. at the dawn of the negotiations on the multiannual legislative framework 2014-2020, i therefore call on the european parliament to be bold in its proposals for simplifying the management and implementation of the structural and cohesion funds.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the kirilov report will be voted on in a few weeks' time and i am glad of that because it is urgent. for almost a year now, our citizens and elected representatives have been waiting for concrete and lasting measures from cohesion policy to deal with the crisis, and national and local actors have been calling for more flexibility and responsiveness in the allocation of european funds. now that parliament is considering new measures to make the use of cohesion funds more transparent, it is more necessary than ever to succeed in our attempt to simplify these requirements. the kirilov report is a first step towards this simplification. it must call for others, because the credibility and visibility of european action on a daily basis are at stake. this report also shows that europe is solidary and that, in these times of doubt about our unity, it is able to provide the member states which need it with measures adapted to their situation. in these dark and cloudy times, the kirilov report can be a breath of fresh air. i hope this report is just a step.
in writing. the economic crisis has demonstrated the need for public action to support private businesses in difficulty. the european union's cohesion policy plays a key role in this respect. by providing finance to beneficiaries affected by the economic downturn, the structural funds provide a lever to stimulate activity. however, access to eu funding remains difficult for many potential beneficiaries. the procedures are complex and the time limits are too long, while the urgency of the crisis requires simple and rapid measures. in this spirit of clarity, i welcome the commission's initiative to simplify the financial management of the structural funds. the various proposals are designed to make cohesion policy more effective without having too great an impact on the community budget. i welcome this pragmatic approach. the commission must not stop there, however. this reform, necessitated by the crisis, should be the first step in a thorough simplification of the way european funds are managed. cohesion policy must become a more effective instrument of public intervention with a view to providing concrete support for economic activity.
deputy author. - mr president, it is therefore up to us to close this evening's debate, and it is already late. i would first like to apologise to the chairman of the committee on agriculture, paolo de castro, who cannot be with us tonight for reasons which you know. like other members of our parliament, he was not able to leave his country to take part in our debates in strasbourg. the question we are concerned with is the crisis in the agricultural sector as a whole, all sectors combined. we know that there is a crisis today, and above all a fall in prices and agricultural incomes, which affects cereal production, which also affects animal production, be it pigs or cattle, which also affects - and i say this in the name of paolo de castro - the producers of olive oil, and which affects and has affected the producers and the milk sector extremely severely. in the face of this crisis and the fall in prices, it is natural that the committee on agriculture of the european parliament should ask the commission how we can get out of this crisis in the immediate future, and above all what measures could be adopted in the coming months to help farmers and to make agricultural markets less volatile. the first question i would like to ask the commissioner is more specifically about the milk crisis: what has happened to the measures adopted by parliament and the council in relation to this milk crisis and, in particular, what has happened to the implementation of the famous milk fund of 300 million euro, which was voted on? this is a first question, because i think that once legislative decisions are taken, we must then know how they are implemented. as i said, all production today is affected by a fall in prices and a deep crisis in the markets. this brings us to a question, and to seeking answers, about what we can call market regulation and how we can limit this so-called price volatility. when prices go up, nobody complains. the first farmers don't complain. consumers are the ones who fear higher agricultural prices, which limit their purchasing power and have consequences for the ability of european consumers to buy agricultural products. when prices are low, and when they fall in a sustained way, it is then that producers are penalised in their incomes and, above all, which is more serious for european agriculture, in their ability to invest and prepare for the future. agriculture is a heavy industry; the investment is large and the return on investment is long. we need to stabilize prices. the question of the committee on agriculture and its chairman, mr de castro, has two points. firstly, you have announced a number of measures for milk before the end of the year. this is important. can you give us some details? secondly, there are specific measures to be taken on all markets other than milk. finally, the question we wanted to ask you is how, in the medium term, does the commission intend to anticipate these crises and avoid them and the fall in prices? what mechanism for regulating the markets can be used to limit both the sudden increases and, above all, the sudden falls in prices? how is the commission working today and how does it envisage this issue? these are the three elements i wanted to mention: the milk fund, the prospects for the milk crisis and, more generally, how the commission intends to deal with this question of price volatility and price fall.
mr president, commissioner, as you know, agriculture is an economic sector with specific characteristics which make public intervention sometimes necessary or even desirable in the interests of producers, consumers and citizens. public intervention in this economic sector is justified both in the european union and in other countries of the world for at least three reasons. the characteristics of the supply of agricultural goods and the demand for foodstuffs make agricultural markets unstable. agriculture also produces non-market goods and, through the jobs it creates, contributes to a certain degree of social stability in our countries, in our countryside. agriculture is the basis of a healthy, varied and abundant diet. so can we be satisfied with the current economic situation in our countryside, with our farmers? a few days ago, commissioner, a professional official gave me the following figures for his department - it happens to be a french department you know well, a department of livestock. the management centre keeps 2 500 farm accounts. of these, 800 have a debt ratio of more than 80% and 20% have a debt ratio of more than or equal to 100%. in view of these figures, which i admit have surprised me, it is the question of the decapitalization of european agriculture, not only of income, which must be settled today. less aid, less public intervention, more constraints on production, that is a very explosive cocktail. the general economic crisis has certainly made the situation worse. but we must also ask ourselves about certain decisions of the commission, about certain decisions of your colleagues, commissioner. agriculture remains a bargaining chip in trade agreements. despite the situation in europe, meat, certain cereals, fruit and vegetables are all affected. the recent agreement between the european union and the andean countries, particularly peru and colombia, will sacrifice producers in the outermost regions. we cannot continue with this policy.
mr president, i note that the court of auditors is not present in this parliament. we need to be enlightened by the position of the court of auditors. do we have an explanation for this absence? i also note that the council seat is empty, while we are dealing with the discharge in the council, which is a matter of great concern to us. do we also have an explanation for the absence of the council?
mr president, i would like to say that, although we do not know the reason, we understand that the financial magistrates are not present, that they are doing a remarkable job of monitoring the european institutions, but i am protesting against the absence of the council because we need to have discussions with it, particularly on discharge for its activities. so i object to the absence of the council today.
mr president, we are used to the council being empty. so this is not the first time, let's not play the hypocrite. i regret it again. as far as the debate is concerned, i am in favour of continuing it. i think, moreover, that subject to your administration's assessment, we have no power to change the agenda, which was set under your authority when you reopened the plenary session. i therefore support the continuation of the debate, and i reiterate my regret that the council is not present.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, mr commissioner, mr secretary of state, i am very pleased to see you and to speak in your presence. between 2000 and 2010, we see a 610% increase in community contributions to decentralised agencies. they went from €95 million to €579 million, while the staff of these agencies increased by around 271%. in 2000, the agencies employed 1 219 people, whereas today they employ 4 794. these figures do not take into account the european agency for reconstruction, which was closed in 2008 and whose last discharge we will vote on today, or rather later in brussels. this overall increase is certainly impressive. nevertheless, during the period 2000-2010, the european union faced many challenges. first, two enlargements in 2004 and 2007, with 12 new member states, and other challenges such as employment and vocational training, immigration, the environment, aviation safety and many others. in this context, decentralised agencies which are set up to meet a specific need directly contribute, through the skills they develop, to the progress of the european union in tackling these major challenges. similarly, member states need to cooperate closely on these issues, and the agencies are a prime setting for such exchanges. finally, the establishment of agencies throughout the european territory brings europe closer to the citizens and allows a certain degree of decentralisation of community activities. the scale of the tasks entrusted to them and the increase in the number, size and budget of the agencies, however, refer the institutions to their own responsibilities as budgetary authorities. the budgetary control function of parliament, like that of the commission's internal audit service and the court of auditors, must also be strengthened to ensure appropriate monitoring of these agencies. however, this does not exempt them from complying with the rules in force. as regards the 2008 discharge, i would like to recall the unfortunately recurring problems faced by many agencies: weaknesses in the procurement procedures, unrealistic recruitment planning and lack of transparency in the procedures for the selection of their staff, the high level of postponements and cancellations of appropriations and shortcomings in the programming of activities, with a lack of precise objectives. we note that, despite the agencies' efforts, the community financial and budgetary regulation is still difficult to apply to some of them, particularly in view of their size. smaller agencies have more difficulty following the cumbersome procedures imposed by the community regulation. i am waiting for the interinstitutional working party's conclusions on this matter to be reached quickly so that the same problems are not repeated every year. however, these difficulties do not jeopardise the granting of discharge for the financial year 2008. the situation is different for the european police college. although there have been improvements in cepol's management compared to 2007, the audits carried out reveal flagrant irregularities in the application of administrative and financial rules. that is why we are proposing to postpone the landfill. finally, i would like to highlight the efforts made by some agencies to improve their management. some have gone further and set up rules that are worthy of praise, and i will mention only a few. so efsa, which i would add has been very effective in its role of coordinating the agencies, has put in place a risk assessment process. the european environment agency has set up a management control system to monitor the progress of its projects and the use of its resources in real time. finally, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions has developed a system for monitoring the information it provides. in conclusion, i would of course encourage the agencies to follow this line.
mr president, i hesitate to speak on these points of order. i would first like to greet the council and thank the minister for his presence. it seems to me, mr president, that it is customary to ask the council to speak after the commission has spoken. the council did not speak before the political debate, although it is speaking at the end of the debate, and it might be useful to ask it to speak in order, in particular, to give it a chance to react to the position of our rapporteur who proposes postponing the discharge for the council.
mr president, commissioner, and mr šemeta, minister, thank you again for coming, and my first words will be to thank my colleague, mr bogusław liberadzki, because i am speaking on behalf of the epp group on the discharge to the european commission. i would also like to thank my fellow rapporteurs for the other political groups and the court of auditors and, in particular, its president, mr caldeira, who is doing a tremendous job of enlightening us in these extremely complicated procedures. our group will vote on the discharge to the european commission, mr šemeta, and i would like to associate with these good developments that we see your predecessor, siim kallas, who worked a lot with us, especially during the previous mandate. first, the annual accounts. the court of auditors has given a positive declaration of assurance on them. therefore, dear richard ashworth, perhaps the conservatives will at least vote on the annual accounts. i'd like to take this opportunity to thank mr. taverne and mr. gray, his predecessor. on the accounts, i cannot resist repeating my concern about the negative equity of eur 50 billion and i still cannot explain why we do not account for the debts we owe to the member states, which amount to some eur 40 billion and represent the pensions of staff. as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, some argue that the court of auditors' statement is negative. we don't know. i've read and re-read that statement. we do not know, under article 287 of the treaty, whether or not we have a positive opinion of the underlying transactions. the court gives us opinions five paragraphs , but we do not know. the resolution proposes that the court should fulfil this task under the treaty. it is in this context that we must meet to review all these procedures for discharge of the cost of controls. on methods, we ask our governments for national assurance statements which we will never have. i propose that the national audit institutions be involved in the audit chain so that they can provide their governments with certificates, which would be deposited in the discharge procedure. i also propose to shorten the deadlines. you have to realize that it is april 2010 and we are talking about the 2008 accounts! we have to cut the deadlines. i propose a perimeter study. i do not agree to postpone the discharge to the council because the court of auditors does not make any comments on the council. i shall conclude, mr president, by proposing an interinstitutional conference with the commission, the council, all the national parliaments which control the executive, and with the national supervisory institutions, in order to develop our discharge procedure in very technical areas and to make things much clearer than they are today.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i should like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs, who have worked very well with me on this report, and all the people in the committee's secretariat, because it was a very difficult task. i would also like to thank the members who have spoken in these debates and i fully share their concerns. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would also like to point out that the agencies in question also have a political mission - and this is also very important - and that in order to carry out this important political mission they have a work programme. this work programme must be really coherent with that of the european union and it must be - and this is a wish - monitored by our three institutions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. we must think about this very seriously, mr president.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing once again the mandate of the commission and the council on the swift project. the draft mandate submitted to us today does indeed take up some of the requirements of the european parliament expressed in its resolution of september 2009, but many points are still insufficient. this is the case with the duration of data storage and the possibilities for appeal by our fellow citizens in the european union. the us privacy act remains discriminatory against non-us foreign citizens: even commission officials acknowledge this. in addition, we are repeatedly told that swift cannot individualise data processing because it lacks the capacity, particularly technical, to do so. there is therefore a huge problem with the proportionality of the transfers made. you yourself, commissioner, have just told us that there are still concerns about these transfers of raw data. i am sorry, but i do not trust the american authorities in this matter. the theory of suspicion cannot be a satisfactory thing. we all know the damage the americans have done in the fight against terrorism. as mrs sippel said, quality must take precedence over quantity. yes, a european authority should be able to have real control over the data that will actually be transferred. we are still waiting for guarantees in this area to ensure the rights of our fellow citizens and of all those who live in europe. we welcome the progress that has already been made, but it is still not enough. yes, our fellow citizens have a right to security, but they have a right to it in all areas. at a time when many of our citizens are becoming more aware of the need to protect privacy and personal data - as we can see in many of the speeches in this house - we must continue to warn you and tell you, in our hearts and minds, that we believe that the principles of necessity and proportionality are still not being respected.
we will all agree - there can be no ambiguity about this - that the fight against terrorism is a shared struggle in which the european union must play a full role. but it is equally fundamental for us as european parliamentarians to ensure that the rights of european citizens, and in particular the right to the protection of personal data, are respected. i think it is necessary to stress this point, and this message is not only addressed to the representatives of the council and the commission here in the chamber, but also to the american authorities, with whom a new agreement must be negotiated. i would like to stress one of the fundamental demands of the european parliament. this is the question of the retention of data by the us authorities. what is being considered now seems to me to be disproportionate. this raises a number of questions. why keep data for such a long time, five years, that those who spoke to us said would not be used? could the duration of their detention not be reduced to a more reasonable period? for the selected data, this time no retention period is indicated in the mandate. the duration of the previous agreement was 90 years maximum. shouldn't an appropriate retention period be defined which is proportionate to the use made of the data, for example in relation to the duration of a specific investigation or a specific trial? is there any use of this data for purposes other than the fight against terrorism and what use is intended? finally, could we consider storing this data in europe rather than the united states? i would like the council and the commission to provide answers to these questions. this is a crucial point and the european parliament will not hesitate to take it up. it is therefore essential that the council, when adopting the commission's negotiating mandate, expressly takes this into account.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament took a very important step two months ago when it rejected this interim agreement. without going into that, since i am the 27th speaker this afternoon, i would simply like to point out that some have lyrically described this stage of european democracy as the first day of the european parliament's existence under the lisbon treaty. it was indeed a historic victory, not only for the respect of the privacy and freedoms of european citizens and beyond, but it was also a step forward for the powers of the european parliament, and it was also a great moment of courage and audacity for our rapporteur, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, whom i would particularly like to congratulate on her determination to reach an important deadline within a few weeks. it is unnecessary to recall the elements of the background which constitute our interdependencies in terms of the fight against terrorism, security and the balance to be found in terms of individual freedom. so, in the context of this new negotiating mandate, we will have to find a fair, balanced agreement that respects rights and is surrounded by guarantees that illustrate what, in my view and in the view of many of our fellow citizens, is the essence, the strength of what the european union is, namely the protection of european citizens. because our political will must take the path of law and expression through the legal system, i do not go back on the elements of reciprocity and proportionality, but i would like to see the stricter legal regime for bulk data transfers, apart from storage, the right to rectification, the right to amend, the right to delete data and the right to legal recourse, expressed with great vigilance and demand. it is up to us to find together, in the course of cooperation, this balance between the imperatives of security and those of freedoms.
in writing. governed by council regulation (ec) no 1798/2003, european administrative cooperation in the field of vat deserved improvements, particularly in the fight against tax fraud. the report by mr garcia-margallo goes in that direction, supporting the european commission's proposals to facilitate the exchange of data between member states. i voted in favour of this report because it also makes some significant improvements to the european commission's text, particularly as regards the protection of data relating to natural persons.
in writing. in the context of the european parliament's consultation procedure, i voted in favour of the report by my spanish colleague, mr josé manuel garcia-margallo y marfil, on the proposal for a council regulation on administrative cooperation and the fight against fraud in the field of value added tax. the fact that vat fraud is often organised in a cross-border manner makes it essential for the union and its member states to coordinate better in the fight against vat fraud in particular and tax fraud in general. i am pleased that the commission proposal lays down the principle of a legal basis for the establishment of a common structure, eurofisc, to combat fraud through the rapid and targeted multilateral exchange of information with sufficient and coordinated responsiveness of the member states to combat the emergence of new types of fraud on the basis of a jointly organised risk analysis. i share the rapporteur's concerns about the protection of personal data, which must be respected. this type of data should be used only for the purpose of preventing and combating tax offences.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr casa's report on the rules on invoicing in vat matters. in this respect, a 2001 council directive introduced common rules at eu level to simplify, modernise and harmonise the rules on invoicing in the field of vat. however, the rules in the different member states remain very different, especially as regards electronic invoicing. the diversity of rules is a hindrance to the generalization of this type of invoicing, which is a source of simplification. the greater harmonisation of rules proposed by the european commission, and supported by the rapporteur, is therefore good news for all european businesses, which will be able to use electronic invoicing more easily and thus reduce their administrative burden.
in writing. in the context of the european parliament's consultation procedure, i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished maltese colleague, mr david casa, amending the proposal for a council directive on the common system of value added tax as regards the rules on invoicing. it became essential to clear the administrative landscape linked to invoicing. the possibilities historically granted to member states in this area have led to disparate rules, notably in electronic invoicing, which are an obstacle to the smooth functioning of businesses, especially those using the new technologies of dematerialization, in the internal market at a time when unnecessary administrative burdens in europe are a brake on economic growth. i support all the simplification measures proposed in the report, particularly those for smes and in particular: to remove the obligation to hold an invoice which meets criteria established by all member states; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
in writing. i voted to give the registrar of the court of justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2008 on the basis of the report by my polish colleague ryszard czarnecki which recommended that we do so. i support the request for the strengthening of the procurement procedures of the court of justice in accordance with the opinion of the european court of auditors. i am pleased with the smooth functioning of the court of justice. however, i cannot explain the reluctance of the court of justice to publish the declarations of financial interests of its members and i support the request by our european parliament to implement this practice without delay.
in writing. on the basis of my polish colleague ryszard czarnecki's report recommending it, i voted to give the secretary-general of the european court of auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the court's budget for the financial year 2008. like many of my colleagues in the european parliament, i welcome the court's good functioning and sound financial management. i regret that the declarations of financial interests of the members of the court which they submit to the president of the institution in accordance with the court's code of conduct are not made public or at least communicated to the members of the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. on the basis of my polish colleague ryszard czarnecki's report recommending it, i voted to give the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2008. i welcome the decision of the ombudsman, mr nikiforos diamandouros, to publish his annual declaration of interests and to place it on his website.
in writing. i voted to give the european data protection supervisor (edps) discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2008 budget on the basis of my polish colleague ryszard czarnecki's report recommending that the european parliament should do so. i welcome the annual publication of the declarations of financial interests of the elected members of this institution (european data protection supervisor and deputy supervisor).
in writing. i voted to give the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for 2008. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, on the basis of the report by my excellent colleague and friend, mrs véronique mathieu, who recommended that the european parliament should do so. i do not understand why this structure accumulates surpluses that seem unnecessary, for example a surplus of almost eur 27 million in 2008 and a cash accumulated on 31 december 2008 of almost eur 50 million. i'm surprised the pension dispute hasn't been settled.
in writing. i voted to discharge the director of the european agency for reconstruction on the implementation of its 2008 budget on the basis of the report by my excellent colleague and friend véronique mathieu which recommended that the european parliament do so. i think it would be useful for the commission to draw up a detailed report on the closure of the winding-up operations, both in social and financial terms, following the memorandum of understanding of december 2008 between the european commission and the agency providing for certain winding-up operations, and in particular that after 31 december 2008 the remaining assets of the agency will become the property of the commission. i support the calls for clarification on the funding allocated to kosovo because it is a question of the credibility of the union and of this young nation which is destined to become, one day, a member of the union.
in writing. i find it unacceptable that the states do not finance security measures at airports which are not provided for in european regulations, and that they also pass the costs on to the airlines, who then charge the passengers. i think it was necessary to go beyond the 2008 regulation and to adopt legislation to ensure that passengers do not bear these additional costs, which in some cases may be unrelated to security charges. it is in this sense that i supported the report by my austrian colleague, mr jörg leichtfried, which guarantees greater transparency for citizens and airlines, and which requires member states to provide public funding for security measures which go beyond european requirements, because this is a matter of national security for each state. in the case of a commission proposal to include body scanners in the list of european methods to prevent member states from financing them, i will again support my colleague and vote against the proposal if necessary.
in writing. i voted strongly in favour of this text which, although it only makes technical changes, reminds us of the importance of a european transport network to bring eu citizens closer together and to encourage mobility. this mobility is necessary because without discovering our neighbours, their territories and their culture, there can be no true europe. the transeuropean transport network also contributes to the plan for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by introducing better management of transport means and promoting their interoperability.
in writing. i denounce the fact that the outermost regions are still not an integral part of the overall transeuropean transport network, despite their vital importance for economic, social and territorial cohesion. it is inconceivable that the orp should not appear in the network planning and in several maps of the transeuropean transport networks. the overall network, the motorways of the sea and the priority projects must be extended to all the ors without discrimination. ten-t policy must also integrate networked services and services of general economic interest; it must not be limited to the major freight and passenger traffic flows. the demand for equal treatment of the outermost regions must be heard. how can we conceive of our being excluded from the transeuropean networks when european transport policy is essential to the opening up of our regions and to freedom of movement within the internal market? the european union is selling our sugar, bananas and rum to other countries through trade agreements. and on the other hand, it distances us from the intra-european trade routes. these two hands that strangle us, we denounce them.
in writing. as rapporteur on this report for the epp group, i have called on my colleagues to vote in favour of this text. as far as the simplifications in this report are concerned, i am convinced that they are very good. this is a real leap forward: less information to be provided, more flexibility on revenue-generating projects, less controls by the commission for environmental projects between 25 and 50 million euros, etc. on the financial side, i have argued for a reorientation of the original proposal. it would not have been right to call into question the principle of co-financing expenditure and to implement projects 100% from the european social fund (esf) as the commission had proposed. in order to balance expenditure in the long term, some states would have faced serious financial difficulties. parliament has found a compromise to help the countries most affected by the crisis and to avoid ex officio discharge in 2007. through this vote we are giving a great deal of support to the recipients of european funds and to the training services. but let us not forget that there is still much to be done on simplification...
in writing. the democratic movement delegation welcomes the adoption of a report simplifying certain provisions of the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund. the easing of the deadlines for the use of funds is a major step forward. the current rules require that aid be used within two years of its being granted. if not, they were to be returned. the new rules will allow regions and member states to avoid losing funds committed in 2007 for projects whose implementation has been delayed. environmental projects costing less than €50 million will no longer need to be specifically requested by member states for approval by the european commission. additional financial advances for 2010 will be allowed to member states most severely affected by the economic and financial crisis. the simplification of certain provisions will also facilitate the revision of the current operational programmes and will make it possible to respond better to crisis situations. for example, areas affected by hurricane xynthia will be able to use this new flexibility to provide a response to the victims of this disaster.
in writing. this resolution marks the european parliament's entry into all the most important policies of the european union. it is making the legal changes necessary to ensure its full involvement both in the institutional and in the international arena. the european parliament can finally fully ensure that the interests of the citizens of the union are defended, which is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. the modem delegation welcomes the adoption of strategic objectives for eu shipping for 2018. the resolution calls for the promotion of maritime professions by strengthening professional qualifications and harmonising european training. it is essential to implement lifelong training and retraining measures for seafarers and seafarers on land at all levels. in this spirit, member states will have to ratify the international labour organisation's maritime labour convention 2006 as soon as possible. while shipping remains one of the least polluting modes, progress is still needed in reducing emissions of sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide, fine particulate matter (pm10) and co2. the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism has called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the future of the maritime sector. further progress in this direction will be required and, to do so, the imo (international maritime organisation) will have to set quantified reduction targets, applicable to all member states, which will avoid distortions of competition with the fleets of third countries.
in writing. the demand for a reduction in the carbon footprint of ships and port infrastructure, improved facilities for seafarers, the demand for a reduction in emissions of sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide, fine particulate matter (pm10) and co2, or the creation of maritime emission control zones, are all measures that can be positive depending on how they are applied. however, the continued preeminence of free and undistorted competition and the subordination of the rights of seafarers to competitiveness make this relationship contrary to the interests of seafarers and the general interest. that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which incorporates a number of my proposals for the future of maritime transport policy and its related sectors, whether in the shipping industry, tourism or fisheries. i wanted to reaffirm the imperative of safety as a prerequisite for maritime transport and to stress, despite the difficult economic environment, the need to respect high standards of protection of the marine and coastal environment. the expected increase in the volume of goods and passengers, the greater severity of environmental standards and the need to promote intermodality and modal shifting make it necessary to modernise port infrastructure. these structural measures require significant investments, accompanied by transparent and equitable funding rules, in order to support innovation and strengthen european port competitiveness. finally, i welcome the fact that the social dimension is part of our strategy and that it places particular emphasis on employment, training, the promotion of maritime professions and the improvement of working conditions for seafarers on land and at sea.
in writing. europeana, the european digital library, has a great ambition: to digitize all european works in order to make them accessible to the general public. it is a long-term task requiring careful monitoring and gradual progress. the initiative report proposes a target of 15 million works available by 2015, as well as access to the website for all, in all eu languages. this european project is indispensable: it contributes to the enhancement of our common heritage, to its worldwide appeal and thus prevents the appropriation of these works by private actors. i therefore voted in favour of this ambitious project.
in writing. we must defend the access of all europeans to the artistic and cultural treasures of europe which constitute their heritage. in this sense, europeana, a fantastic digital library, which now contains almost 6 million digitized works, was launched in 2008, despite a difficult start. we must now improve the contents of europeana while ensuring that intellectual property is respected. finally, i would like to see improvements made to make this tool more accessible to disabled people. in this context, member states should promote full and free access to european collective knowledge by such persons, through accessible formats and appropriate technologies.
in writing. the idea of creating a virtual european library was launched in 2000. objective: to make europe's cultural heritage available to all through the internet. so when you think of europeana, you think of culture. today europeana provides access to 7 million 'digital objects' (namely images, text, sound and video) in just a few clicks, from world-famous works to small hidden treasures. more than 1000 cultural institutions provide content to the site: galleries, archives, libraries and museums (not least the rijksmuseum, the british library, the louvre, etc.). the project is far from complete: the new version of europeana, which is still in development, will be launched this year with the aim of reaching a volume of more than 10 million digital objects by june. to transform the essay, several major challenges still need to be met: enriching the content in due course, integrating more copyrighted material, solving the issue of out-of-print or orphaned works, finding new funding methods, ensuring better accessibility for people with disabilities, providing a truly multilingual service, all issues addressed intelligently in the text we voted on and to which i have, accordingly, given my support.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the alternative resolution on europeana - the next steps because this resolution was tabled by the epp in defiance of the vote in committee. the new resolution takes up a large part of the original resolution and therefore incorporates the amendments i had tabled and which were adopted, but the new text is primarily aimed at denying citizens the means to feed europeana themselves through a special space and the prospect of the development of web 2.0 tools. so i refused to be associated with this move, both in form and substance.
in writing. two comments on this report. even if the rapporteur does not quite follow his logic, it is refreshing to see that this parliament is finally becoming aware of a number of problems. imposing legitimate rules on our own producers and livestock farmers penalizes them in a global, ultra-trade-based system where social, environmental or other concerns are considered by the wto as non-tariff barriers to trade. is it necessary to point out that this same parliament has always favoured trade and is therefore partly responsible for this situation? i am also surprised that there is no mention of the legislative regressions imposed by the commission on, in particular, organic production, which have an impact not only on the quality of the products but also on animal welfare and human health. secondly, it is time to realise that respect for what you call 'cultural and religious customs' can run counter to the standards you claim to uphold and to genuine european traditions and practices. it is unacceptable that some alien communities can claim on these grounds cruel methods of slaughter, and even recommend the violation of eu regulations in this area!
in writing. the report on eu agriculture and climate change has, in my view, the essential quality of combining environmental protection and the promotion of a strong european agriculture. the agricultural sector must move decisively towards more environmentally friendly and sustainable production methods. however, these objectives should not be used as an excuse for weakening agriculture in the eu. this requires ensuring better use of resources and traceability of products. i therefore voted for this report because it respects these balances.
in writing. the common agricultural policy is a key area in the fight against climate change in the years ahead. in this respect, the report by stéphane le foll wisely puts the climate challenge at the heart of the cap. agriculture is affected by climate change in two ways. it is the first to suffer from the increase in drought and natural disasters. but it also accounts for 9% of the continent's greenhouse gas emissions. the european parliament shows that we have virtuous paths to follow. nitrogen fertilisers used by farmers are particularly co2-emitting. by targeting their use, promoting bio-waste fertilisers and emphasising organic farming, we are drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions. methane from animal manure is also a renewable energy source! and forests, like european soils, are incredible reservoirs of co2.
in writing. the democratic movement delegation in the european parliament welcomes the adoption of the report on eu agriculture and climate change. it welcomed the emphasis on the new challenges facing the common agricultural policy, such as climate change, water, renewable energy, biodiversity and soil management (carbon dioxide capture, water and mineral retention capacity, biological life, etc.). in the same spirit, the modem delegation called for the establishment of a common european forestry policy to promote sustainable forest management and production and to better exploit the contributions of the timber sector and its economic development. all these questions are essential. they must be given full consideration in the future agricultural policy.
in writing. i supported the report by my french socialist colleague stéphane le foll because it argues that european agriculture must continue as it has already begun to do to adapt to the consequences of ongoing climate change and prepare for the impact that these changes will have in the future for many regions of the european union. agriculture has a crucial place and a role to play in the fight against global warming. this is a key issue for food security and for moving towards sustainability. in this context, the post-2013 cap will necessarily need to integrate this climate dimension by providing solutions and support for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, encouraging soil carbon storage, developing sustainable renewable energy production and maximising the photosynthetic function.
in writing. this relationship is maintained within a productivist and liberal logic which is contrary to the general interest. it involves respect for human beings and our ecosystem. productivism and capitalism don't allow it. however, the preference given to short circuits (although not mentioned as such), the priority given to renewable energy, the criticism of expensive irrigation systems or the qualification of the mitigation of the effects of climate change as a "public good" are all concessions to our theses that cannot be ignored.
in writing. i voted in favour of this excellent report by the italian herbert dorfmann, which deals with the process of review, initiated by the european commission, of the criteria for the status of 'agricultural zone with natural handicaps' and therefore the ichn (compensatory compensation for natural handicap). it is worth highlighting the importance of paragraph 18 of this report, which refuses to support the criteria proposed by the european commission: 'emphasises that a final opinion on the chosen territorial unit, the criteria and the thresholds proposed by the commission will only be possible when the detailed maps to be drawn up by the member states are available ...'
in writing. the own-initiative report by mrs vera del castillo is ambitious on the issue of the digital strategy for europe. this issue revolves around the access to the internet for all eu citizens. as such, it is recommended that half of the european population should have access to broadband by 2015 and all by 2020. this mainstreaming of the internet is supported by proposals on how consumer and safety legislation should evolve, as well as on the necessary digital access to public services. this agenda will also support research and development of innovative content, thereby promoting the development of knowledge and access to heritage. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted, as recommended in the excellent report by my polish colleague bogusław liberadzki, to give the european commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2008. i am pleased that some of the ideas to which i am very attached have been taken up: the organisation of an interinstitutional conference involving all the actors, in particular the national parliaments and the national audit bodies, with a view to reforming the discharge procedure, shortening the time limits so that discharge is voted in the year following the year under audit, the requirement on the part of the court to have a single opinion (application of the 'single audit' rule) on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions in the accounts as provided for in the treaty. the rules for allocating european funds must also be simplified, since many errors are the result of complex procedures, often accompanied by national complexities. finally, as regards the controls on research organisations in europe, i am pleased that the european parliament has confirmed our message to the commission not to challenge funding in a brutal and often unfounded way in terms of international auditing standards.
in writing. the overview given by the almost 40 reports on the implementation of the 2008 european budget by the various community bodies is distressing. for the 15th consecutive year, the court of auditors has been unable to approve the implementation of the commission's budget because it is marred by errors and undue expenditure. and yet parliament gives him a discharge for his management! the commission is taking a back seat to the responsibility of the states, which are supposed to manage 80% of expenditure, particularly agricultural and regional expenditure. but in both these areas the problems are diminishing, while they are exploding for subsidies managed directly by brussels. the situation with regard to turkey's preaccession aid is particularly serious and worrisome. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in fact, in one of her reports, mrs matthieu calls for a global study of their usefulness. that is why we voted against most of these discharge texts.
in writing. i voted, as recommended in the very good report by my excellent spanish colleague and neighbour inés ayala sender, to give the european commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds (edf) for the financial year 2008. i fully support the budgetization of the european development fund and it will be necessary, in due course, for the union to set up its own instrument for action in the field of development. as regards the investment facility managed by the european investment bank (eib), which is a risky instrument financed by the edf to encourage private investment in the difficult economic and political environment of the acp countries, i very much agree with the idea that the eib should report in the discharge procedure but this will be a point for discussion, particularly if the union, as parliament wishes, becomes a shareholder in the capital of the eib.
in writing. the own-initiative report on the eu strategy for relations with latin america reflects the approach that the eu is promoting in international relations. the text reconciles the economic, social, political and institutional dimensions to ensure that trade between the two geographical areas also benefits the most disadvantaged populations and contributes to the sustainable development of the subcontinent. the report also calls for harmonisation of financial regulations to introduce greater accountability at global level. i have therefore clearly taken a position in favour of this report.
in writing. this arrogant and imperial text is unacceptable. it endorsed the resumption of negotiations on free trade agreements with central america, colombia and peru. they are harmful both economically and socially and democratically. how can we negotiate with the coup government of mr porfirio lobo in honduras and then claim to be the guarantor of the rule of law and human rights? how can we negotiate bilaterally with the repressive governments of alvaro uribe and alan garcia and ignore the opinion of the other sovereign member states of can, bolivia and ecuador? i am voting against this text which is not in accordance with the principles of democracy and humanism.
in writing. this text welcomes the negotiations initiated by the commission with a view to establishing a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the eu and canada. this agreement is being negotiated behind the backs of european citizens, even though it will have important consequences for their daily lives: dismantling of public services; giving investors the right to protect their profits over the right of states to protect the general interest; aligning workers' rights from the bottom up; deterioration of access to health services, water, education and culture. it is this policy and this blatant denial of democracy that the epp, alde, ecr and s&d groups propose to support and even to accelerate. i'm absolutely against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on swift, which concerns the transfer of european banking data to the united states in the fight against terrorism. after the warnings issued by the european parliament a few weeks ago, the negotiation process is now on the right track. the european parliament now plays a full part in this, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the treaty of lisbon. the aim is to strike a balance between effectively protecting our citizens from terrorist risks and respecting individual rights. the negotiating mandate given to the council today by the european parliament seems to me to be in that direction.
in writing. following the rejection of the 'swift agreement' by the european parliament in february 2010, a new agreement is to be negotiated between the european union and the united states for the transfer of bank data in the context of the fight against terrorism. we in parliament, in the vote of rejection in february, expressed our opposition to the continuation of the massive and uncontrolled transfer of this data to the us treasury department. today i voted for this resolution in order to influence the new mandate that the european commission will give to the united states in the negotiation of a new agreement. in substance, we ask that the transfer of personal data in bulk be reviewed so that it is carried out in a more targeted manner, that legal remedies are provided for, that data are kept for the shortest possible time, and that there is reciprocity in exchanges. the issue of personal data protection is a major issue in the european parliament. we are therefore also very vigilant about the transmission of data on air passengers. we will protect the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens to the end.
in writing. i spoke in favour of a strengthened negotiating mandate from the european commission to the us authorities on the swift case. we must have the assurance that two important reservations - the question of bulk data transfers and the possibility of legal recourse by europeans to the united states - will be removed. i therefore believe that this mandate should be substantially amended in order to be adopted, otherwise i would be forced, at the end of the negotiations, to speak against this agreement again, as i have done in the past.
in writing. i am voting against this text which endorses the possibility of an agreement between europe and the united states on the transfer of swift data. the current conditions do not allow the selection of data to be transmitted to the us authorities. they will therefore have access to a wealth of private data in the name of the emergency in the face of a terrorist threat which, if it is real, is nevertheless being exploited for imperial purposes. the text does not require reciprocity from the united states, but merely allows it to be "observed" in a submissive manner that it is normal. such a vassalage is completely unacceptable. today more than ever, europe must assert its independence from the united states.
in writing. i supported this resolution to express my concern about the use of pnr data (purely commercial data at the core) in the context of the negotiation of agreements with the us and australia (for crime-fighting purposes). it seems to me that it is wiser to work first on the development of a general framework for this type of agreement, defining minimum conditions, such as a legal limitation, a solid legal basis, data protection standards, a limited retention period, before signing any agreement to transfer data to third parties. we must also defend the right of european citizens to have erroneous data deleted or to obtain reciprocity for european access to our partners' data. i hope that the discussions will continue in this sense.
in writing. i am voting for this text. the commission is proposing not to accept the current agreements with the united states and australia on the transfer of so-called pnr data of european air passengers. the transmission of such data is subject to the freedom of movement of citizens. the group i belong to knows something about this: one of the staff, a human rights activist, was banned from entering and even flying over the united states after being blacklisted as a potential terrorist. it is to this kind of arbitrary restriction of freedoms that agreements of this kind expose us. there are acts of terrorism. they must be fought. but they must never be used as a pretext for suppressing fundamental freedoms.
in writing. cyanide is an extremely dangerous chemical, used by the mining industry despite the risks it poses to the environment and human health. ten years ago, over 100,000 cubic meters of water contaminated with cyanide were accidentally dumped from a reservoir in a gold mine in romania into the river system. this spill has caused one of the greatest ecological disasters in central europe. for several years, toxic substances have threatened the ecological balance, the food chain and the basic human water needs of these rivers. nothing prevents such an accident from happening again. there are several cyanide mining projects in europe. another disaster can always happen. it's just a matter of time and human negligence. cyanide mining is labour-saving, but it does pose a real risk of environmental disaster. european environmental legislation enshrines the precautionary principle and requires the prevention and control of water pollution. i therefore voted in favour of the parliament's resolution calling for a ban on the use of cyanide in eu gold mines.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution in favour of a total ban on cyanide-based technologies in the mining industry by the end of 2011. the environmental consequences of cyanide pollution are transnational, so this ban should apply at european level. for example, in january 2000, more than 100,000 cubic meters of contaminated water leaked from a gold mine in romania, polluting rivers and streams in romania, hungary, serbia, and bulgaria. we want member states to stop supporting mining projects using cyanide-based technologies. in parallel, the commission will have to encourage the industrial conversion of these areas by providing financial support for alternative green industries, renewable energy and tourism.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text and am satisfied with the outcome of the vote because cyanide is an extremely toxic chemical substance, with potentially catastrophic and irreversible effects on the environment and human health. cyanide also qualifies as a major pollutant under the water framework directive (wfd). in january 2000, more than 100,000 cubic metres of water polluted with cyanide leaked from a gold mine in baia mare, romania, and polluted the someş, tisza and danube rivers. fish and living organisms died and drinking water was permanently poisoned in romania, hungary, serbia and bulgaria. that this incident is known as a "second chernobyl" because of the devastating impact it has had on the environment? if we do not take a firm stand in favour of a total ban on the use of cyanide-based technologies in the eu mining industry in a simple joint resolution, the message we are sending to the european commission will lose its meaning for the future.
mr president, i will cut to the chase. article 2 of the report by our colleague, mr méndez de vigo, rightly emphasizes that one of the council's proposals is directly contrary to the spirit of the 1976 act. it is the appointment by national parliaments of members of the european parliament, who, according to the 1976 act, must be elected by direct universal suffrage. i regret, with all the friendship i have for the rapporteur, that he has not taken this into account in a stricter, clearer and more severe way in his article 5. there is no way we can stick to the election. if the states do not want to hold by-elections, they can simply take into account the results of the 2009 elections and apply the results of those elections to the new number of members they have been allocated by equalization. any other solution is contrary to democracy, especially in my country - france - where the national parliament is appointed without proportionality, without the proportionality rule. it would in fact be a designation of a type of government which is incompatible with the spirit of the treaties.
madam president, france is the only member state which has not anticipated the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and refuses to rely on the result of the european elections in june 2009. by accepting option three - the french exception - to appoint two new meps, we are being asked to validate a serious violation of the primary law of the union: the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, from which we have derived our legitimacy for 31 years. will we submit to the council's decision, under pressure from a state which expresses a certain disregard for the union and the european citizens? our assembly must not condone this serious attack on the principle of european democracy. we must refuse to alter our legitimacy and credibility as elected representatives of the european people. european citizens elect their representatives to the european parliament, not the governments of the member states. this french exception justifies our demand that parliament be involved in the revision of the treaties in the case of a convention, and it rejects a simple intergovernmental conference.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of appointing additional members to the european parliament is not new. i would remind you that our colleagues severin and lamassoure had already worked on this question during the previous mandate. how can we not be surprised, then, at the complete unpreparedness of a country, in this case my own, france, in appointing its two newly elected representatives? could it not legitimately assume that the treaty of lisbon would one day come into force and that the question of newly elected members would arise? so why such lack of anticipation, such casualness? but with the draft protocol no 36, by offering france the possibility of appointing members of the national assembly - thus allowing it to save face at little cost - we are in fact risking breaking the fundamental rule that the members of the european parliament are elected by direct universal suffrage. this is not in keeping with the spirit of the 1976 act on the direct universal election of members of the european parliament and would undermine the very legitimacy and credibility of the european parliament. on the other hand, the elected representatives of the other eleven member states who have been regularly appointed should not have to pay the price of such dilettantism. this situation has gone on for too long, for them and for their country, and it is perfectly legitimate that these elected representatives should be able to come to us as soon as possible and get to work. we believe that this is why it is necessary to settle this question through an igc which could quickly approve the appointment of these elected representatives. on the other hand, we must insist that france fulfils its obligations in the same way as its european partners have done. such arrangements are not acceptable in the heart of the european citizens' assembly. the debate has nevertheless shown the need for a uniform method of appointing members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage in the future, and this reform must be carried out by means of a convention. once again, it is the voice of the people that must be heard here in this chamber, not the voice of the governments.
madam president, i too, after the other speakers, would like to express my thanks to our colleague, mr méndez de vigo, who has done a remarkable job in sometimes passionate and always exciting conditions. the debate in the committee on constitutional affairs lasted a long time, and it was worthy of the challenge and of the intensity and interest which, of course, the european parliamentarians are giving to the major issue which concerns them first and foremost, in a completely legitimate way: the composition of our assembly and the procedures for appointing its members. once again, the rapporteur has been able to gather together opinions and contributions, which are sometimes different, and to synthesise them in what i would call a very balanced text. i wanted to thank him for that. i believe that the recommendations in both reports, both the one on the convening of the igc and the one on the transitional measures for the composition of our assembly, are full of realism, pragmatism and efficiency. i believe that this is what citizens expect from europe in general, and also on other subjects.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in europe in a particularly difficult period with the serious crisis in greece, its consequences for the citizens and - as you have recalled - tragic and dramatic consequences, with the deficits accumulating in most of our member states, with a european response that is not always up to our expectations, but with a european response that has the merit of existing. now is the time for europeans to learn from these events and call for deep reforms in european governance. reforms so that our member countries can no longer decide on their own, without consulting their partners - with whom they share a common currency, values and, therefore, a common destiny - on their budgetary, fiscal and social priorities. we need to reform our mentality so that our parties, our ministers and our national parliaments will stop systematically denigrating what is decided in europe, even though they themselves have taken part in those decisions. is it possible, for a longer period of time, to call on the solidarity of our partners when we are experiencing difficulties and to ignore them completely when things are getting better? is it possible for a longer period to ask for substantial aid from its partners without being able to guarantee the fullest transparency in the presentation of public accounts? finally, can we be surprised that questions are raised at length when we call for solidarity between peoples who, for some, work thirty-five hours and retire before the age of sixty, and for others, work forty-eight hours and more and retire at the age of sixty-seven? i don't think he is. i think it is time to ask the real questions and give the real answers. these responses are, for the most part, not national but european in the world in which we live. these are not demagoguery, but responsibility and common sense. it is up to us to give these answers without hesitation, because if we do not, they will be imposed on us sooner than we think. and not only will our people be able to accuse us - and rightly so - of not doing our duty, of not telling them the truth, but they will also have to make decisions that are even more painful than those we have to make today. we must call very explicitly for an economic europe, a social europe and a fiscal europe, and this requires very concrete measures on the part of our governments, both right and left. will this speech be heard by the council? will we be able to make it audible? i put the question to guy verhofstadt, who has tasted this council. does he think it is possible that we can discuss this together in the council? will the commission take up this speech? i hope so, and i urge you, mr josé manuel, to do so: i ask you, as guardian of the treaties, to ensure that the decisions we take are actually implemented by the member states. i note, for example, that this is far from the case with the services directive. it is a loss of growth that we can no longer afford. ladies and gentlemen, i am not a utopian. i do not believe i am naive, but i believe that europe is in the midst of a moment of truth, and i suggest that you tackle these issues with courage, with a sense of responsibility, as the fathers of europe did 60 years ago: schuman, de gasperi, adenauer and others, those fathers of europe who did not hesitate to take courageous and visionary decisions. we must follow their example: they did not wait, they did not hold a referendum. they have taken political courage and put it to work to answer the crucial questions that have arisen. the crisis we are experiencing, ladies and gentlemen, can be a good thing if we have the courage to take the right steps, but it can be very serious if we fail to implement the necessary reforms. we urgently need an economic and social government, we urgently need an adjustment of the tax rules. and finally, we must be careful not to create an artificial divide between the countries of europe and the rest. european solidarity applies to all 27 of them. i ask you, the council leaders, to look europe in the face. i ask you to study what will happen to us if tomorrow france and other countries encounter the same difficulties as greece. where will our euro be? what can we do for our european citizens? thank you for your attention. we share this responsibility together and time will not wait.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall continue a little further along the lines laid down by guy verhofstadt. it's obvious that for four months we've been procrastinating. it's obvious we were wrong. it is clear that the delay has given a boost to markets and speculation. at least let those in charge of the council say so! let them say, "we are guilty. it's us! it's our fault!" mrs merkel, mr sarkozy, i do not know their names and i do not know what they do for a living, but everyone could read in the newspapers that it had to be done immediately. first of all, secondly, i would like to make one thing clear: what the papandreou government is supposed to do is almost impossible. i ask ecofin and the heads of government to consider carefully that they are not capable of implementing reforms at home. how long does france need to reform pensions? how long does germany need to make the withdrawals? and now, papandreou is asked: "in three months, you change everything!" you guys are crazy. and the proof is what is happening in greece. we are not giving greece, mr papandreou, time to find a consensus in greece. there is no identification with the state in greece. it's every man for himself. we can regret it. the responsibility is shared by decades of practice of corruption of politicians in greece. but we must create cohesion! it must be done, it cannot be decreed! and you're going to see in spain, if you have problems, how it's going to be done, and they're going to see in portugal, if there are problems, how it's going to be done. mr barroso knows something about this, because he has lost elections like this. so... - no, he has never lost an election - ... i mean by that we must have a sense of responsibility and we must not ask for the impossible. i think that a long time ago, people used to say, "i want my money back". i have the impression that at the government level now, they are saying, "i want to make money on the back of greece". because that is also the problem, when you borrow at 1.5 or 3 percent and you give greece at 3, 5 or 6 percent, you make money on greece's back. this is intolerable! then europe can take the initiative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to change the treaties. well, comrades, here in this parliament we have the opportunity to take the initiative to change the treaties. we must not wait for the council, they are incapable of making a decision! let us take the initiative, a joint initiative of this parliament to change the treaties so that there is finally a european monetary fund which can tackle speculation! we can do it, yes, we can. let's do it now! and now i would like to say something else about the steering of what is happening in greece. i ask the commission to involve the employment dg in the piloting so that we can also measure what is happening in greece. and i ask the council to tell the imf to involve the international labour office in the steering of what is happening in greece, because they are human beings. there are problems of employment, there are employees. and i think that it is not only finance that should dictate, but also security and the international labour office or the dg employment, which would be a corrective to the madness sometimes of those who decide only on finance. and then, one last point. there is one way to help the greek budget, and it is simple: to take an initiative, from the european union, for disarmament in the region. that is to say, a greek-turkish political initiative for disarmament. that is to say, a political initiative, that the russian troops... the greek troops... the turkish troops - excuse me - withdraw from northern cyprus. let there be a disarmament. i'll tell you one thing: we're hypocrites after all. in recent months, france has sold six frigates to greece for two and a half billion, helicopters for more than 400 million, rafale (one rafale for 100 million) unfortunately, my intelligence did not allow me to say whether it is 10 or 20 or 30 rafale. that's almost three billion. and then there's this: germany sold six submarines in the next few years to greece a few months ago. that's a billion. but we're such hypocrites. we give them money to buy our weapons. i ask the commission to report here to the european parliament and to the council on all the arms sales by europeans to the greeks and turks in recent years. at least there's transparency. let it be known! i say to you that if we act responsibly, we must ensure the territorial integrity of greece: the greeks have 100,000 soldiers, more than 100,000! germany has 200,000. it is completely absurd that a country with 11 million inhabitants has 100,000 soldiers! let us ask greece that. it might be more effective than cutting the wages of someone who makes 1,000 euros. i ask the commission to be fair. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, the articulation between the two debates we have just had is intellectually coherent. is it really being put into practice? we have doubts in the socialist and democratic group because there is no coherence between the text as proposed by the commission and a strategic partnership which you want to adopt in july, without parliament having been able to express its opinion on the employment guidelines. how can we imagine committing ourselves for the next ten years? first of all, without taking stock of what the lisbon strategy was, you tell us: 'everything has changed: we no longer have twenty-seven guidelines, we have ten!' but is that the change, mr president of the commission? consistency means thinking that if we want to succeed in the 2020 strategy, we must start from where we are before looking where we are going. and you have to look where you want to go. the european union as a whole is in the midst of the most serious crisis since its inception. it's the worst i've ever had. we can't ignore that. we cannot enter into a strategy for overcoming the crisis, which would require the public authorities to abandon their responsibilities in economic matters in order to leave the field free to the market. we cannot think of this strategy without using the tools we have. you know very well, mr president of the commission, that we are not that rich! we have a tool called the stability pact. we have other things, which are called financial perspectives. if we do not articulate all this clearly, we will get nowhere. and then, when we look at the starting point, we have concerns. firstly, we, the socialist democrats, urgently call for the states to be no longer subject to market speculation. and this is not greece, this or that member state! it is a game of dominoes and a free-for-all for speculation. that is why we are proposing the creation of a financial stability mechanism to protect the member states from this speculation, so that they can do what they have to do, namely to find the path of recovery that will ensure the social model. because everyone knows it, everyone has said it in this crisis: our social model is our best antidote to globalisation! and if your 2020 strategy is translated into fiscal consolidation that kills this social model, europe will be defeated tomorrow in the global competition; the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and its ability to carry forward the model we embody will be lost and we will have given way to other continents, if not to the market. that's not our vision of the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial, economic and social crisis we are experiencing is unprecedented. it is a serious problem for our continent and its people, it causes immense social and human problems, and greece is unfortunately a brutal and shameful example of this. unemployment is rising. already millions of europeans are unemployed and the number is rising by the day. the response must be political, strong, rapid, coordinated, taking into account the serious environmental crisis we are experiencing and which requires a new development model. these multiple crises generate a strong expectation and hope on the part of our citizens, to which the europe 2020 strategy should have responded. but in the face of these challenges of exceptional magnitude, the answer is not there, i regret. the guidelines set out by the european council last march are not up to the task. no will, no ambition, but unfortunately, that doesn't surprise me anymore. everywhere you, the members of the council or the commission, you and your commissioners boast about the consistency of your policies. but i have the feeling that it's just a concept that serves as a screen to hide your inaction. you do not have a coherent strategy combining economic, social, commercial, industrial, agricultural or research policies to ensure sustainable and equitable development. the external dimension of european action in the commercial field is also absent or under the umbrella of the untouchable liberal dogma of a 'global europe'. we want trade to be a real instrument for job creation and growth, for the fight against poverty and for development. but you are pursuing a different objective - not for technical reasons but for political reasons: the race to reduce costs and lower wages, the race to bilateral free trade agreements at the expense of multilateralism, with the consequence of social and fiscal dumping. this policy has caused too many job losses, too many relocations, too much social disruption to continue. in conclusion, we expect the commission and the council to give fresh life to the community spirit, to reject national selfishness and to make europe a haven not only of prosperity but also of solidarity. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr dalli, commissioner, this draft report, as just presented by mr peterle, very strongly echoes the guidelines of the european commission's communication and is also inspired by the european parliament's resolution of 10 april 2008 on the fight against cancer in our european union. let me support the objectives of the european partnership envisaged by the european commission to fight cancer more effectively, whether it be the importance of prevention and early detection, the development of a new model for cancer prevention and, above all, the reduction of inequalities within the member states. i share the concerns and concerns expressed in the european commission's communication and in the draft report. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr peterle, on the work he has done in drawing up this report and on the compromise proposals he has put forward to incorporate the various amendments. as the fictitious rapporteur for the socialist and democratic group, i wanted to emphasize, among other things, the following issues: firstly, the increase in annual cancer deaths caused by exposure to carcinogens at the workplace, but also the importance of better access to information on medicines for cancer patients; the implementation of the reach regulation and the regular updating of the list of substances of very high concern, which includes carcinogens; supporting initiatives to prevent the import of goods containing carcinogenic chemicals and to strengthen the control of the presence of chemicals within the european union, and developing guidelines for a common definition of disability that may include people with chronic diseases or cancers. these are the questions we wanted to raise in support of this draft report.
in writing. the fight against fraud is a key challenge for the european union and the member states. the importance of public money committed under cohesion policy requires exemplary vigilance against the misuse of this money. the credibility of the structural funds with the citizens is at stake. i welcome the efforts of the european commission and olaf to combat fraud effectively. as the rapporteur points out, the financial impact of irregularities affecting structural operations has decreased considerably. the increase in the number of irregularities reported to the commission also reflects the progress made in the fight against fraud. it is important that the commission and the member states continue this fight with all possible rigour. however, it is also essential not to discourage potential beneficiaries of the structural funds with too strong constraints. voluntary fraud is one thing, but the inaccuracy of the drafting of the plans is another. if the former is to be considered as criminal activity, it is important to simplify the procedures to limit the impact of the latter.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, my first words will be to greet you, mr maystadt, and to tell you how glad i am to be here again, since i worked on an identical report some time ago, to greet the commissioner and to tell the rapporteur and the rapporteurs of the other groups the immense work they have done, and i would also like to congratulate them. i regret, mr president, that the council is empty, because the eib is an intergovernmental instrument. the member states are the partners of the eib. i would also like to thank mr maystadt and his colleagues for their attention to all these matters. i would like to speak first of all about supervision, which is a subject close to my heart, because i believe that the european investment bank, because of the tasks it has, should have a supervisory role. it does not have one, because it is an international entity which is not subject to national supervisory authorities. i tabled an amendment so that our european banking authority, which we hope to set up, can have a perimeter allowing it to have a supervisory mission. i would like you to support this idea, commissioner. i am told that the member states are opposed to this. the member states will not be able to entrust tasks to the eib on a permanent basis and not to ensure that it has a supervisory role. i would now like to conclude on investment and the role of the eib. the european union is not investing enough, and we know today that we need to invest more in the interconnection of transport networks, energy, high-speed trains, motorways, universities, water, space and health. but the european investment bank is right: it is a bank, it must keep its triple a rating. that is why i propose that in strategy 2020 we have at least a target of one trillion investments. it is possible, but we must have an investment budget within the european union and cooperation with innovative instruments with the eib, and i propose that the european union become a partner of the bank, which would allow for better synergy with this instrument, which is essential for the future of our european territory.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external action is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty on european union. i quote: 'in its relations with the rest of the world, the union contributes to the sustainable development of the planet.' in february 2009, the jordanian authorities contacted the eib to support their nuclear energy development project, including the construction of a nuclear power plant by 2016. i am therefore pleased to have received assurances from your services that the european investment bank has not complied with this request and that it considers it its duty to support projects to develop wind and solar energy in jordan, which are the future energy sources for our planet because they are renewable. will this position be maintained for other applications for financing nuclear power stations?
mr president, with this 2008 report from the european investment bank, we are celebrating an anniversary: it is now more than 50 years since the eib has been actively contributing to the economic development of our continent. as the european union's long-term lending bank, it plays a decisive role in combating the crisis we are experiencing today. the responsiveness it has implemented since autumn 2008 is to be welcomed. in 2008 alone, the eib paid out €10 billion more than it had planned. as a member of the parliament's committee on regional development and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i am particularly interested in the eib's support for european small and mediumsized enterprises. it seems to me extremely important to continue developing initiatives such as jeremie. companies need equity, venture capital, guarantees, loans, technical assistance offered by jeremie. in my 'euro-district', which jean-pierre audy, who is here, knows well, the auvergne region launched this sme support mechanism a year ago. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. i welcome this constructive cooperation between the eib, the european investment fund and our local authorities. mr maystadt, i am convinced that we must continue along this line.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the green group also shares the condolences which have just been expressed by our colleagues. we fully support the resolution on the mass atrocities in nigeria, which unfortunately are only one element in the sad picture of human rights in that country. i would like to take this opportunity to speak to you about nigerian prisons, which are full of prisoners whose rights are systematically violated. as amnesty international reported in 2008, 65 percent of the country's prisoners have never been convicted of any crime. some have been waiting for their trial for ten years. the problems are such that nigeria has no choice but to acknowledge them and promise to reform the system. the reform we're still waiting for. if i focus on prisons, it is because the immediate news has reminded us again how little value a human life has in nigeria, and even more so in prisons. nigeria's national economic council has announced plans to execute hundreds of death row inmates to decongest prisons. killing to reduce prison overcrowding. nothing is more shocking, especially when it is certain that many of those sentenced to death are innocent and that most have not had a fair trial, especially since in february 2009 the federal minister of foreign affairs of nigeria declared before the un that his country applied a de facto moratorium on capital punishment. that is why i shall be putting forward an oral amendment during the vote to condemn the recent position of several nigerian governors.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will of course also join in the condolences which have just been expressed to the nigerian people following the death of their president. the european united left/nordic green left will not vote on the joint motion for a resolution which is before us today and has refused to join it. we believe that this resolution, unlike some of the other interventions i have just heard, does not really address the causes of the recurrent violence in that country and deals with only some of it, even though we condemn it and indeed call for the perpetrators to be prosecuted and brought to justice. nigeria is a large country in africa, rich in centuries of history, by far the most populous on the continent with its 140 million inhabitants. one might even say that it should be a rich country since oil deposits have been discovered there. the value of its gdp puts it in second place in africa, after south africa and before algeria. yet the majority of its population lives below the poverty line and it is the only country in the world with significant oil resources to have a budget deficit. ironically, nigeria imports almost all of the oil products its economy needs because of its insufficient refining capacity. it must be said that its three main refineries are out of order and, worse, its production of black gold has fallen dramatically in recent years due to the incessant attacks on oil facilities. why is nigeria in this situation? because this country is a flagrant example of the control of certain international companies, in this case oil companies, and in particular one of them, which exploits 40% of nigerian black gold, over the resources of africa, with the complicity of some of our governments. these companies make and break governments based on their own needs and at the expense of the needs of the people of the country. the niger delta, once one of the most beautiful wildlife areas in the world, has become a veritable garbage dump. not only because of the oil industry but also because every month 500 containers full of toxic waste of all kinds enter the port and are dumped in open air in huge landfills. nigeria is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. the sponsors of successive juntas have pocketed more than 325 billion of the 400 billion that black gold brought to the country. and where are those dollars? accounts in switzerland, britain and france. i find this situation intolerable and i think that the resolution we are adopting is not up to the challenges of the european union's international solidarity with africa.
mr president, as i said in the debate, i propose to add an oral amendment to paragraph 6, which reads as follows: 'invites the nigerian authorities to repeal the recent decision by some governors of nigerian states to execute death row prisoners to relieve overcrowded prisons, which is a gross violation of human rights; calls on the state governors to exercise restraint and continue to enforce the de facto moratorium; the council also called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the death penalty is not used in violation of nigeria's international commitments.'
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation because it highlights the innovative, constructive and democratic nature of convening conventions for the revision of the treaties (example of the drawing up of the eu charter of fundamental rights in 1999-2000 and the european constitutional treaty in 2002-2003), while recognising the very specific nature of the revision of the treaties now made necessary by the introduction of transitional measures linked to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in summary, the system of conventions must be used when treaty revisions go beyond mere technical and provisional adjustments. i therefore agree with the rapporteur, mr íñigo méndez de vigo, that it is right for the european parliament to 'give its approval to the european council to amend protocol no 36 in the context of an intergovernmental conference without convening a convention'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, mr íñigo méndez de vigo. a transitional measure must be found to reconcile compliance with the treaty of lisbon and article 5 of the 1976 act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage. it is therefore necessary to increase the number of meps to 754 for the remainder of the 2009-2014 parliamentary term. i also welcome the wording of paragraph 6 of this report which calls for a uniform system for the election of members of the european parliament: 'informs the european council that it intends to draw up shortly the necessary draft provisions to enable the election of its members by direct universal suffrage in accordance with a uniform procedure in all member states and in accordance with principles common to all member states, and that parliament will proceed with this electoral reform in accordance with article 48 (2) of the eu treaty and article 223 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; stresses, moreover, that a convention on the reform of the european parliament will be convened to prepare the revision of the treaties;';
in writing. the european parliament has given its consent for 18 meps to join the current legislature. this agreement allows the parliament, elected in june 2009 under the nice treaty procedure, to be brought into line with the lisbon treaty, which entered into force on 1 december. i voted against it for what i consider to be a crucial reason: in the european elections in june 2009, most member states considered that a forthcoming ratification of the lisbon treaty was very likely. they therefore adapted the organisation of the elections accordingly. this is not the case in france, which has no provision for a smooth transition from 72 to 74 meps. the solution finally found - the appointment of two members of the national assembly - is intolerable. since 1979, meps have been elected by direct universal suffrage by european citizens, not by national assemblies. it is thanks to direct universal suffrage that we are entitled to speak on behalf of all europeans. the fact that parliament has accepted the french compromise sets a worrying precedent in the non-respect of the treaties.
in writing. i would like to express my strongest criticism of the choice made by france in the appointment of the two additional members of the european parliament, as a result of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. unlike the other 11 european countries concerned by this reform, which had voted in advance and naturally based themselves on the results of the european elections in june 2009, the french government has decided to simply appoint national deputies: it is a disgrace to democracy! we french socialists also considered that the other 16 elected members of the european parliament should not bear the brunt of this total lack of french preparedness and so we decided in the end to launch an igc (intergovernmental conference) which would allow these elected members - first as observers - to come and play their role as representatives of the european citizens who elected them for this single purpose.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon increases the number of meps from 736 to 751. however, since the 2009 elections were held before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, only 736 mps were elected. our parliament has therefore had to adopt new provisions concerning its composition for the remainder of the legislature. the modem delegation did not support this text for two reasons. it cannot accept the council's proposal to convene an igc without first going through a convention composed of representatives of national parliaments, heads of state, parliament and the commission. this accelerated procedure does not only 'violate' the spirit of the treaties, it 'violates' the letter. it also sets a bad precedent. the appointment of two french national meps to the 18 additional meps constitutes a serious breach of primary law which states that meps must be elected by direct universal suffrage and not appointed by their national parliaments. the only benefit of this episode was to draw attention to the need for long-term reform of the parliament's electoral procedure. in particular, we have long insisted that a proportion of meps be elected from a european constituency.
in writing. whether the treaties are revised by means of an intergovernmental conference or a convention does not change anything at all about the essence of the problem. only one country, france, has refused to anticipate the consequences of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on its representation in the european parliament, out of impetuousness, carelessness or political miscalculation. despite repeated requests from various political groups, including myself. as a result, he is now the only one of the 27 to propose to appoint two new meps indirectly by a decision of a national parliament whose voting system is completely unfair. all this in violation of the treaties themselves, and in violation of the 1976 act which provides for their election by direct universal suffrage! and with the complicity of the socialist party, which took a big hit in the 2009 elections and will inherit an additional seat on both. a little trick among friends, sanctioned by this assembly! unfortunately, in order to make this anomaly appear to be a fact, the rapporteur is hiding behind the temporary nature of the measure. temporary ? the new french deputies will serve for four years, or more than 80% of the term. i would have expected our colleague to be more firm both on the value of words and on the defence of democratic principles.
in writing. i voted in favour of several amendments to underline the unacceptability of the option chosen by france, which designates national meps to sit in the european parliament, alongside 16 others, who themselves came from the elections of 7 june 2009. in my view, this choice, obviously made in total unpreparedness, runs counter to fundamental democratic principles and raises important questions about the democratic legitimacy of the european parliament. but we must not block the arrival of the other elected representatives whose appointment is in full accordance with the spirit of the treaties. this question shows how necessary it is that in the future we should have a uniform system for the appointment of members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, and that this reform should be carried out by means of a convention.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which allows, among other things, the standardisation of batteries for electric vehicles, because the european union and our citizens have everything to gain from the creation of a european market for electric vehicles, and indeed from the creation of a world market. these provisions thus strengthen the union's position in the fight against pollution and environmental protection by promoting the use of clean vehicles, regardless of the type of vehicle. they also promote support for research and innovation, thus having a positive impact on the technological competitiveness of the european union. this is the beginning of a new model of society taking into account the various challenges (environmental, societal, technological, demographic, etc.) that tends to be established through the adoption of this resolution. i am counting on the other european institutions to follow us in this process.
in writing. the automotive distribution and services sector comprises 380 000 businesses in europe. almost all of them are smes, employing 2.8 million people. since 1985, the automobile sector has been governed by a regulation exempting it from community competition law, in order to take account of its specific characteristics: oligopolistic situation, high technical standards and long product life. the commission is now proposing to abolish the existing exemption for the sale of new vehicles. only the secondary market (repair and maintenance services and supply of spare parts) would remain subject to a specific exemption scheme. this resolution, which i had already supported in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and which i voted for again today in plenary, contains clear messages from the european parliament. it follows extensive consultations with the automotive sector. it called on the commission to take account of several factors which could upset the balance of power between car manufacturers and dealers, to the detriment of consumers.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against this resolution which welcomes, in principle, the current revision of the competition rules applicable to distribution and repair in the motor vehicle sector. in fact, it welcomes the abolition of the exemption and the application of general competition law. as usual, after prior consultation, the most influential or effective lobbies, although not necessarily representative of the sector, will prevail, not to mention the dogma of competition for the benefit of all! the efforts of the professionals to adapt to the legislation in force today will be frustrated. of course, doing and undoing is still doing. the question is whether the commission's objective, and in particular that of the dg competition, is to justify its existence by producing laws, rather than to put in place a regulation which meets the quality and safety requirements of services and products, requirements which are imposed everywhere, but especially in the automotive sector.
in writing. the so-called 'category exemption' regulation, introduced at european level in 2002 to strengthen competition in the automotive sector and bring tangible benefits to consumers, is coming to an end. the commission, in its proposal for a revision, introduces changes which will have worrying consequences for consumers in terms of choice, quality and price. that is why we are making clear in this resolution, which i have supported, our reservations about certain proposals put on the table. i am thinking in particular of the obligation to have a single brand, which will have a negative impact on consumer choice and on the independence of dealers from manufacturers. i would also like to express my concern at the lack of adequate guarantees of access for all players to technical information and spare parts, which will de facto limit the freedom of choice of the dealer or repairer to whom the consumer could have recourse. finally, the commission must urgently address new forms of anticompetitive measures that capture the customer, such as the subordination of after-sales services to the exclusive repair or maintenance of a vehicle within the brand-specific network.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the establishment of a european partnership to fight cancer (2009-2013). the aim of this partnership is to establish a framework for the identification and exchange of information, capabilities and skills in disease prevention and control. member states must act together, particularly in the area of screening. in europe, one in three people will develop cancer during their lifetime. yet, one third of cancers are preventable, and prevention is the most effective and cost-effective long-term strategy for reducing the cancer burden. i am pleased that the proposals in my itre opinion have received a majority in the plenary, such as the need to make greater use of public-private partnerships to stimulate research and testing, particularly in medical imaging.
in writing. while health is a matter for each member state, we have much to gain from a comprehensive approach to cancer prevention and treatment, and that is what i am supporting here. this will enable the european level to cooperate more closely with the parties concerned (civil society, various organisations, etc.) in order to disseminate best practice in this field as widely as possible, in particular to improve the effectiveness of care provided to patients, taking into account their psychosocial and mental well-being. this partnership would also promote the consideration of related issues, such as inequalities in the face of illness, which is fundamental to improving the daily lives of patients. i also welcome the adoption on 19 april of a written statement, which i supported, calling for all eu member states to introduce national breast cancer screening and for the commission to draw up a follow-up report every two years. breast cancer remains the leading cause of death in women aged 35 to 59.
in writing. this report is consistent with the belief that global warming is fatal and must be man-made. but it is excessive, and so is this belief, now almost religious and unchallenged. and like all excess, it is ridiculous. so, without even waiting for any scientific assessment, an absolute precautionary principle should be applied to deal with the worst-case scenarios as regards the possible impacts of the so-called warming on ecosystems, but also on habitable areas, industrial facilities, etc. i would note, by the way, that such caution is rarely applied to other measures relating to the environment and human health, such as gmos for example. on the basis of real or imagined risks, ranging from diseases possibly linked to warming to forest fires thought to be caused solely by the same phenomenon, to floods and overheating of power stations, we are invited to accept the intervention of the commission and european policies in absolutely every area, down to the use of the smallest parcel of land. it is a pity that so many trees, recognized carbon sinks, were sacrificed in the printing of this text. as the poet says, "hello, woodcutter, hold your arm a little longer".
in writing. in my report to the committee on transport, i regretted the lack of consideration of the transport sector in the european strategy for adaptation to climate change, despite its considerable economic importance and being one of the main sources of co2 emissions. i therefore welcome the fact that this report puts transport at the heart of this issue. we need to make a significant effort to effectively support businesses and users in adapting to climate change. the success of our policy requires that adequate and innovative financing methods be mobilised to minimise the impact on people, ecological balances and economic activities. our strategy must also take into account sensitive geographical areas, such as coastal, marine and mountain areas, which are particularly vulnerable and will be hit hard by climate change if we do not take appropriate protective measures. it was becoming urgent for our parliament to adopt effective adaptation mechanisms for the transport sector, which must no longer be just the cause of the problem but become a solution in the fight against climate change.
in writing. i think it was urgent for the european parliament to condemn the ongoing massacres in nigeria and call for a return to peace. given the instability and fragility of africa's most populous country, but where the majority of the population is suffering from poverty, this resolution can serve as a basis for strengthening the political dialogue between the european union and nigeria, and for a thorough study aimed at finding viable short- and long-term solutions to end this violence and restore peace in a lasting way. as meps, i believe we have a role to play in defending and promoting human rights, which are violated daily in nigeria. i therefore believe that the provision requiring that those guilty of violence be tried fairly is fundamental. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to adopt this resolution.
mr president, i think it is right to pay tribute to those who die on the job, as you have just done. it would also be right to have a thought for all those employees who die every day at work because their employers do not make available to them the means necessary to work in good conditions.
mr president, the european union has many assets to become a world leader in the construction of clean cars and, in particular, electric cars. the commission must ensure that this project is a major european project by encouraging cooperation between the major automobile companies of our continent, cooperation which must extend from research and development to marketing. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the use of the public procurement rules. it must draw up and adopt common standards and norms, at international level if possible, at european level in any case, and as soon as possible. it also aims to encourage member states to gradually replace their fleets of combustion-fuelled vehicles with electric cars.
mr president, it was with dismay that we learned in these meetings that a working party had been set up to discuss an 'advanced status' for tunisia. why the consternation? because not a single day goes by without reports coming from this country showing the multiplication of threats and acts of intimidation against all those who still dare to denounce the methods of this regime. without going back to the latest results of the municipal elections - 90% of the votes for those close to the government - i will give a few examples. on may 6, journalist zouhair makhlouf was arrested and harassed by police while on his way to a dinner with the former paris stickman. on may 18, journalist fahem boukadous is expected to be sentenced to four years in prison. what did he dare to do? report on the social unrest in the gafsa basin and the subsequent repression. lawyers abdul raouf ayadi, ayachi hammani, mohamed abbou and radhia nasraoui are being subjected to constant intimidation. the internet is increasingly censored. an example, mr. president, if i may, my own blog is now censored ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, this world day against homophobia should be an opportunity for us to reiterate our commitment to universal respect for human rights throughout the world, even though discriminatory provisions or practices based on sexual orientation or gender identity still exist in a number of countries. we must also condemn even more strongly the increase in the number of physical attacks and the repetition of statements of a homophobic nature. the law of silence must end. the question of tolerance education is part of the solution because attitudes still have to improve, including in our european countries. we must not neglect it, quite the contrary. finally, european diplomacy must be mobilized to ensure that the crime of homosexuality is abolished in countries where such laws remain in force. i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to mrs ashton to do so.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european parliament is sending a strong signal to women who help their spouses in their selfemployment. their social rights will now be considerably strengthened and i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs lulling, on the work she has done. europe must protect. the new definition of 'caring spouse' will enable spouses and partners to benefit from social protection in the event of sickness and retirement. the baker's wife will now be able to enjoy social rights. it is regrettable, however, that the council did not accept compulsory parentage but simply retained the system of voluntary parentage. it's also maternity leave for all of us. the new text provides for a minimum maternity leave for selfemployed women and women in selfemployment throughout the european union. this leave is currently scheduled for fourteen weeks. i am the epp's fictitious rapporteur on the directive on the health and safety of pregnant women at work. i very much hope that, with the adoption of this text, the length of maternity leave will be increased, and why not, then, for selfemployed women. finally, europe has proposed creative and pragmatic solutions to help couples reconcile work and family life. the time has come to act and to implement the proposals as quickly as possible. the protection of women, europe's fight, is progressing with this text. but let us, as members of the european parliament, continue to erase the inequalities between men and women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the positive step forward that this directive represents in the face of the urgency of the fight against climate change. 2010 is the year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion. it is estimated that between 50 and 125 million europeans suffer from energy poverty according to the epee. however, this new legislation only concerns new buildings and will affect only 2.7 million new dwellings per year, whereas there are 200 million old dwellings in the european union. but to reach factor four, we will need at least 150 million new homes by 2050. commissioner, since 2007, 4% of the erdf has been eligible for improving the energy efficiency of buildings but it is only very partially used. how will you then put pressure on the member states to use these funds in practice, otherwise they risk disappearing from 2013 onwards, when some of them will have to be enlarged?
in writing. energy performance of buildings is an area of great potential for the european union. the reduction in energy consumption that will be possible as a result of the measures introduced by this text will contribute to increasing the eu's energy independence and is in line with an efficient european energy policy. the success of this policy also depends on the member states having to use the financial mechanisms such as applying a vat reduction, allocating the maximum allowable share of european funds to energy performance, etc. at the level of citizens, these advances will also benefit european households, which will see a decrease in their energy expenditure. they represent on average 33% of household income and can reach up to 54% for households with the lowest incomes. i therefore hope that in practice the improvements in the energy performance of buildings will benefit above all the latter category of citizens. we must be aware of the costs of introducing new standards. a pass-through of construction and renovation costs on rents could make the benefits of energy performance of buildings inaccessible to those who need it most.
mr president, if there is one industrial sector in europe where employment has been the victim of wild relocations, the unhindered movement of capital, the strong euro, dumping, it is the textile sector. today, in terms of production and employment, only a few niches remain in the mid-/high-end, luxury and high-tech sectors. but all this remains fragile and at the mercy of counterfeiting and technological advances in emerging countries, too often financed by the capital of european firms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the textile industry is not left behind. i therefore also support social labelling of textile products to help consumers choose products on the basis of ethical criteria such as health, safety, workers' rights, welfare, working conditions and workers' wages. i also support labelling as a means of combating counterfeiting, provided that we really give ourselves the human means to fight against fraud. and then we should go further and establish a genuine community preference. but without the political will to develop a job-creating textile industry in europe, all the labelling measures in the world will be of little use.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would have preferred to hear the rapporteur tavares, but that is all. now that he's finally joined us in this debate, that's the main thing. i think that the work he has managed to do in reaching a consensus on the use of the european refugee fund, which is intended to finance and encourage member states to develop their programme for the resettlement of refugees, is very positive work which commissioner malmström is encouraging and i welcome. nevertheless, it is necessary to keep in mind a few figures which make it possible to put the scope of this fund in perspective. if we were to commit - which i do not want to do because it would necessarily be to the detriment of funding the reception conditions of refugees, asylum seekers in europe - but if we were to commit the entire european fund, it would only be, painfully, two tens of thousands of refugees that we could resettle in europe, a number extremely far from the unhcr's request that has identified in the world more than 470 000 refugees in need of resettlement, that is, really people who have specific needs, vulnerabilities, fragility, and are in the concrete impossibility of returning to their countries of origin. so we have to be reasonable. the second precaution, i think, is that - because we have had the experience in my country, france - the resettlement of a few refugees is being advertised in the media as a charitable tree of goodwill which would hide a forest of bad practices, because at the same time this country, france, has just been condemned by the united nations committee against torture for having sent back to third countries asylum seekers who risk inhuman or degrading treatment. i think that these are the precautions, and i would like to conclude by saying that we must keep them in mind.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i would like to speak about the schengen information system. we must now examine the legal framework which allows the transfer of sis i to sis ii. i'd say all the flashing lights are red in this area. the least that can be said, commissioner, is that the tests have not been conclusive in this respect. nevertheless, despite the opposition of three member states, not the least of which - france, germany and austria - the commission persists. you know that in the gue/ngl group we have an equally persistent, i would say, reluctance on the issue of data retention and the risks it entails in relation to data protection. i think we are living in a rather surreal time when the risks and the deviations from the norm are increasingly being denounced by experts who know what they are talking about. we must take data protection precautions for all citizens, regardless of who they are. we need to have a minimum commitment on the risks of file linking. in france we are well placed to know what the drift is. madam commissioner, as things stand, the gue/ngl group cannot support such a transfer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote we are going to have to cast tomorrow in favour of amending the european refugee fund is essential in many ways and i shall concentrate on this subject while congratulating carlos coelho and rui tavares for their reflection and work. the vote on the erf will have to highlight the need for the eu member states to play their full part in resettlement in order to bridge the double gap that exists in terms of the number of countries committed to the programme and the capacity of each country to receive refugees. it is important to remember that we are talking here about refugees who are often just tolerated in the countries that have welcomed them and whose living conditions can sometimes turn tragic if solutions are not found quickly. these new measures can help to provide greater security for these particularly vulnerable people, provided - i should like to make this clear - that each of the member states involved in the erf makes a justifiable and clear use of the funds concerned, something which i know you will be very attentive to, mrs malmström. it will be difficult to make a decision when we know the lukewarm reception given by the member states to this new provision, and here again, madam president, i would like to stress your determination. finally, i want to emphasize that the integration of refugees is one of the keys to the success of this enterprise. the more prepared and explained the arrival of refugees is, the more likely it is to be accepted and to be able to take place under the best conditions, and the more member states - we hope - can demonstrate a commitment to resettlement. that is why our assembly must vote overwhelmingly in favour of these amendments to the european refugee fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when this text was referred to the committee on regional development, i succeeded in introducing the idea of extending the derogation to allow the production of reconstituted milk in martinique and guadeloupe, following the example of the sustainable growth model which has proved its worth in madeira. unfortunately, this position was not agreed at the last trilogue. i regret this on two counts: firstly, in substance, milk production in the oct would offer multiple opportunities which cannot be overlooked: strengthening the cattle sector, self-sufficiency in basic production and job creation. secondly, as regards the form, parliament as a whole was not able to give its opinion on my proposal because it was intended to pass this text at first reading through an informal procedure which i denounce. in any case, our work on this posei regulation will continue very soon during the mid-term review of this regulation. i shall be submitting a request for a derogation in the other french overseas departments.
mr president, i must say that the compromise on sugar, as negotiated in the trilogue, falls short of what we proposed in the committee on regional development and in the committee on agriculture and rural development, and i deeply regret that. however, as regards réunion, this text is important for farmers who are waiting for the derogation for milk to be implemented quickly. it will guarantee them the sustainability of the sector. i would have liked, however, to have kept the safeguards recommended in the committee. i agree with mr tirolien on the milk question. we would have liked to have had a study carried out for martinique and guadeloupe, so that a supply chain could be maintained in these regions. but these questions will of course be put back on the table during the posei negotiations and we will have the opportunity to discuss them again.
in writing. i voted in favour of the creation of the european asylum support office in the hope that it would bring added value to a european asylum system which is currently clearly inadequate. i would certainly have liked the mandate of this bureau to be more ambitious and to be the instrument by which a mandatory solidarity between the member states is finally established, to put an end to the lottery of the right to asylum. this will remain a pious wish until common asylum procedures are adopted. this bureau will at least have the merit of contributing - at least i hope so - to a better identification of the issues and problems of asylum, in order to ensure the best possible protection for the victims of persecution who seek refuge in our countries.
in writing. this ambitious text aims to encourage the construction/renovation of buildings to more environmentally friendly standards because they are more energy efficient. i voted decisively for its adoption. with this type of initiative, the european union is demonstrating its leadership in sustainable development. this directive is a good compromise between incentives and constraints in the field of environmentally responsible construction.
in writing. we spend 50% of our lives in our homes. today, 30% of existing housing in europe is unhealthy, although there is a great disparity between the different member states. it is therefore important not only to promote new sustainable construction but also to renovate sustainably. i welcome this new legislation which will help consumers to reduce their energy bills and the eu as a whole to achieve its climate target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption within 10 years. member states will have to adapt their building codes so that all buildings constructed from the end of 2020 will meet high energy standards. existing buildings will, if possible, have to be improved. for the democratic movement, the housing issue is also one of urban planning and quality of the built environment. we have to prioritize the way our living spaces are designed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. we therefore call on the member states to introduce a reoriented tax system to encourage more environmentally responsible behaviour on the part of all actors.
in writing. i have approved the draft revised building performance directives because i believe that new construction should be based on energy efficiency and that binding standards should apply in this area so that they can be effectively enforced everywhere. public buildings will lead by example from 2018, which will give more weight and legitimacy to public authorities in their information campaigns to citizens. these texts also provide that energy saving is a fundamental element in the renovation of buildings; i therefore hope that these measures will give a new impetus to smes and that member states will strengthen training programmes for the workforce responsible for implementing energy efficiency in buildings. similarly, as regards the energy labelling of energy-consuming products, i consider it necessary for consumers to be aware of the energy characteristics of the products they buy.
in writing. in view of a little-known score, europe must do more to help resettle refugees whose lives are threatened in the countries that have taken them in. it is to encourage member states to join this movement of collective solidarity that i voted in favour of this report which aims to encourage the reception and resettlement of refugees in europe. good intentions are no longer enough, words must be put into action, and priority must be given in particular to children and women who are exposed to violence or exploitation, unaccompanied minors, victims of torture or people who are seriously ill.
in writing. the report on the schengen information system and its modernisation contributes to this magnificent advance of free movement within europe. in the face of the increasing movements of people between the member states of the schengen area and its enlargement, there is a need to improve data processing to ensure that this freedom is exercised in a secure manner. the coelho report contributes to the search for greater efficiency in the flow of information but also to the necessary respect for individual freedoms, which the european union guarantees. i voted for this report, and i am quite right in that.
in writing. the 'newsletter' of the migration from sis i to sis ii has lasted too long. it is in this context that i voted in favour of this report, to stress the need to respect the deadlines and to put an end to what can be considered, after many unsuccessful results, as a deadlock, given the means deployed to achieve, but without success to date, the objective of the said migration. the ball is in the commission's court, but as the budgetary authority the european parliament must use its powers and reserve the right to ask the european court of auditors to carry out a thorough audit on the management of the project and the financial implications of a failure on the community budget. c c
in writing. i see some timid advances in the libe amendments contained in this report. the council called for the european parliament to be involved in the decisions and stated that its favourable opinion was necessary before any transition to the second stage of the schengen information system. but this report is unacceptable. the possibility of moving to the schengen ii information system, a new tool for the "security of the whole", cannot be endorsed with impunity. this system will allow for the aggregation of increasingly large amounts of data on individuals, for reasons whose validity is subject to interpretation. what validity is there in the suspicion of a terrorist intent? worse, access to this data could be given to the united states! in times of crisis, the ruling eurocracy continues to build a competitive and secure europe. but now more than ever is the time to build the europe of solidarity and cooperation that we need.
in writing. the eu is much less involved than the us or canada in the reception and resettlement of refugees from third countries. i voted in favour of the european parliament's own-initiative report on the creation of a common european programme for the resettlement of refugees. it calls for an ambitious and sustainable resettlement programme to be set up within the eu and offers financial assistance to member states willing to participate. this report also shows that we disagree with the council's view. the latter wants to base its decision on the nationality of the refugees in order to decide who gets priority for resettlement. we want a category of 'vulnerable refugees' to be established, regardless of the geographical origin of the refugees (children and women exposed to violence and exploitation, unaccompanied minors, people in need of medical care, victims of torture, etc.). these should always be given priority.
in writing. european citizens should not be fooled by the title of this report: resettlement is not about helping immigrants return, but about welcoming people who have already found first asylum in a third country to the eu on the recommendation of the united nations high commissioner for refugees. first country of asylum or refuge which for some reason is not suitable for them or the united nations. this is a formidable new incentive for disguised socioeconomic immigration, under the guise of an application for international protection, as a european asylum support office will increasingly be responsible for organising the distribution, nolens vols, of applicants across the eu. how can we trust the un and the first host countries to organise any kind of control? how can we tolerate a european agency imposing on states what they must accept on their territory, and under what status? there are 750,000 people in the world, according to unhcr, who could qualify for resettlement. do we have to take them all in, on orders from this organization? that is completely irresponsible!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i would like to stress the importance of the basic knowledge that every european must acquire. the number of young people who cannot read correctly by the age of 15 is only increasing (21.3% in 2000 and 24.1% in 2006). with a european strategy focused on quality jobs and a smart economy, this knowledge gap is a machine for marginalising an ever-growing segment of the population! member states must now integrate this priority of acquiring basic knowledge (reading, writing, mathematics) into their educational programmes before specialising their pupils. the importance of learning foreign languages is also crucial. as an english teacher, i'm particularly sensitive to this learning. the lagging behind of some european countries in the teaching of foreign languages is closing many doors to students, while professions are becoming more and more international. finally, adapting education models to the new occupations of the green economy or the digital economy is a major challenge for education in europe. support for 'continuing training' is therefore the key to flexible vocational pathways adapted to the occupations of the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because its aim is to promote active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity among all young people. in the field of youth policy, where subsidiarity is the rule, we must encourage the member states to define common objectives and agendas, to improve their cooperation and exchange of good practice. when you consider that in europe 1 in 4 15-year-olds cannot read correctly, there is an urgency. as we are discussing the 2011 budget, i am concerned about the gap between the ambitions of the report we have just voted on and the 3.4% cut in the youth in action budget. why reduce a programme which is precisely aimed at developing a sense of citizenship, solidarity and tolerance among young europeans? i therefore hope that strategy 2020, which is based on a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, will translate into ambitious financial commitments for education and training for young people, because in these times of systemic crisis, the survival of the eu in the medium term is only possible with educated and mobilized youth for the european project.
in writing. it was important to strengthen the protection of women in self-employment. the report by mrs lulling on equal treatment for men and women in self-employment goes in this direction. it provides for 14 weeks of maternity leave and a social security benefit for the assisting spouse, which was not the case before. the european parliament is once again the guarantor of the protection of women in their work. i share this view and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. being particularly sensitive to gender equality and equality in general, including social rights, i welcome the adoption of this report. it seems to me that it is essential that the member states guarantee social protection for women who are selfemployed and for assisting spouses, and that this protection should be equivalent to that of women who are employed. the aim of this measure is to give a boost to the still too hesitant entrepreneurial activity of women in europe; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that women in the labour market are not excluded from the labour market. maternity leave must be guaranteed in all member states and for all women, regardless of their occupation. since this measure is subject to the principle of subsidiarity, we hope that the member states will take the necessary steps to ensure that these men and women can reconcile family and working life as quickly and as easily as possible.
in writing. in the age of globalisation, when products are increasingly the result of a move through an internationalised production chain, it is difficult to know the nationality of products. at the same time, consumers want to be able to make informed purchases, sometimes by choosing products from countries with higher quality standards or social and environmental standards. in this context, i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it proposes to make the country of origin labelling compulsory. i believe that this is essential information which must always be communicated to the consumer. i also support the idea that the european commission should prepare a report or even a legislative proposal within two years on the harmonization of textile labels. after all, we have been sharing the same market for decades, so why are size systems and many other equally important indicators still different in the member states?
in writing. surprising as it may seem, the "made in" label on many clothing labels is no longer mandatory and its use varies widely from one country to another. we took advantage of a commission proposal for a regulation on the time limit for marketing a new textile fibre to remedy this labelling problem. in the absence of european legislation, there is a risk that products manufactured in third countries will appear with a label suggesting that they were manufactured in europe. the report also calls on the commission to consider labelling which would give consumers access to information on the social and environmental conditions of manufacture of the products they buy.
in writing. i did not support the amendments in the manders report on textile product names and labelling relating to 'made in' (47/49, 48, 12 and 67). these amendments, which seek to impose the marking of origin on textile products imported from third countries (excluding turkey and the eea member states) or to regulate precisely the conditions for voluntary marking of origin of textile products manufactured in europe by means of this regulation, would jeopardise the adoption, within a reasonable time, of this important legislation. the proposal for a regulation on origin labelling issued by the european commission is still under discussion in the council and is being reported on by the committee on international trade. i am not against transparency and product traceability for the benefit of the consumer. however, as a member of the european parliament, we have a responsibility to respect certain regulatory frameworks. in my view, before adopting the mandatory mention 'made in' on the label of clothing sold in europe, we should have first ensured that the draft regulation on 'made in' included all the necessary guarantees, particularly in its implementing rules.
in writing. it is intolerable that european loans and grants should be subject to constraints imposed by the imf. it is unacceptable that the european commission should set itself the task of verifying that the policies of the world bank and the imf are being applied by the beneficiary states, in defiance of the popular sovereignty of the ukrainians. i am voting against the macrofinancial assistance presented to the european parliament today. i am, however, in solidarity with the people of ukraine. on the contrary, i do not want it to be a victim any more than it already is of the obsolete and dangerous neoliberal system that the imf, the world bank and the european commission are imposing on it.
in writing. our 9 outermost regions (the azores, the canaries, guadeloupe, french guiana, madeira, martinique, réunion, saint barthélemy and saint martin) are a real asset for the european union. their remoteness hinders their development and the european union must adopt specific compensatory measures. it is therefore necessary, for example, that it should be possible to produce uht milk from milk powder for human consumption in réunion. the exception for madeira should be extended to reunion, which shares this characteristic of being very far away. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which seeks to introduce, extend or adapt existing derogations for the azores, the canary islands, réunion and madeira in the sugar, milk and wine sectors.
in writing. there is no overseas but there are overseas. each island, each territory has its own specificity, identity and problems. the report we have just adopted will allow for the introduction of certain derogations in the field of agriculture in favour of the outermost regions. for example, réunion will now be able to produce uht milk reconstituted from milk powder of community origin and thus make up for a lack of fresh milk production. the azores, for their part, will benefit from a derogation from the rules limiting sugar exports to the eu, as sugar beet production is the most viable alternative to milk quotas for the island, both for the economy and the environment. these derogations will help the outermost regions. that's a good thing. and that is why we want them to be guaranteed in the long term. that is what we expect from the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the final text, prompted by urgency, because the application of these various derogations for réunion, the azores, the canaries and madeira was essential to safeguard jobs and the continuation of agricultural activities, in particular milk production in réunion. however, i voted against the compromise proposed by the european commission and the council because it was far below the measures we had proposed and which had been adopted by the committee on regional development and the committee on agriculture. i regret that the sugar export quotas were not maintained at 3 000 tonnes for the azores, that the derogation granted to réunion for milk production was not considered for the other french overseas departments and that the safeguards concerning the sustainability of the efforts made by the reunion milk producers were not retained by the commission. i would put all these questions back on the table in the negotiations on the reform of posei.
in writing. the trüpel report on the 2011 budget is a new step in the procedure for adopting the european parliament's budget. the european parliament adopted the 'guidelines' for 2011 last march. the aim here is to adopt the draft estimates, which follow negotiations between the committee on budgets and the bureau of parliament, which is the body responsible for this matter. i supported this report, which provides for the adoption of the second tranche of an increase of eur 1 500 per month in the parliamentary assistance allowance, the financing of the entry into office of the 18 new members, the improvement of expertise services provided to members (thematic departments, library services) and the increase from 100 to 110 per year of the number of visitors that each member can sponsor financially. these various provisions correspond to the new responsibilities of the european parliament conferred by the treaty of lisbon: now co-legislators with the ministers of the member states on almost all european competences, members must be able to benefit from a high level of technical expertise on legislative dossiers, but also to report to the citizens on their activities, in particular by welcoming them to parliament in strasbourg or brussels.
in writing. the report has the merit of recalling that only the public service guarantees the 'independence and impartiality' of inspections and of emphasising the notion of public agricultural goods. the emphasis on the traceability of foodstuffs is also of interest, although clear labelling on the ecological footprint is more likely to raise awareness among all citizens (producers and consumers) of the importance of relocation and the environmental quality of production. the commission's desire to simplify the administrative rules of the cap is also interesting. however, the fact that the cap is only considered from the point of view of competitiveness and neoliberalism, in line with the policies put in place by the european union in recent years, prevents me from voting in favour. i therefore abstain on this text, out of sympathy for the progress made in the intentions.
in writing. the report presented by ms rühle is an own-initiative report to examine ways of improving public procurement procedures in europe, in order to achieve a more stable and transparent legal framework. incorrect application of public procurement rules is one of the most frequent causes of errors in the disbursement of european structural funds. i agree with the main points of this own-initiative report: a call for better coordination of public procurement procedures within the various directorates of the european commission, a finding that the objectives set by the 2004 revision of the public procurement directives (clarification of the rules and more legal certainty) have not yet been fully achieved. i also agree with the report's position that small and mediumsized enterprises suffer particularly from the complexity of these procedures, which can sometimes prevent them from taking part in a call for tenders because of a lack of resources in terms of legal aid. i therefore voted in favour of this report and will be attentive to the proper application in our member states, and in france in particular, of the directives on the award of public contracts which are already in force.
in writing. while i share the report's aim of calling on the commission to simplify public procurement procedures in order to avoid local authorities and businesses having to spend considerable resources in time and money on strictly bureaucratic matters, i regret the wording of the second part of paragraph 9. i believe that this interpretation of a decision of the court of justice of the european union stating that local authorities can cooperate without ever having recourse to the market deviates from the principle of neutrality. this may be detrimental to undertakings (private or publicly owned) which are thus excluded from any possibility of competing for the provision of economically useful public services.
in writing. this report provides some insight into the social and environmental standards which must be able to be integrated into the calls for tender; it also proposes recommendations to facilitate access for smes to public contracts. however, it presents a major shortcoming due to the absence of any explicit reference to the necessary adoption of a legal instrument specifying the definition and status of service concessions when the public procurement directives were being revised. we cannot be satisfied with the current case law of the court of justice on public service concessions, the need for a framework directive on services of general interest is more than felt. legal clarification is essential in the interests of all. that is why i abstained on the final vote on this report.
in writing. i condemn the ostrich policy of those who consider that the current case law of the court of justice on service concessions is satisfactory and that there is no need to legislate. the socialists have fought and campaigned for years to obtain framework directives protecting services of general interest, and there is no question of us abandoning this commitment. the only long-term guarantee for public services is genuine european legislation, not court decisions, however well founded they may be. as we can see from the difficulties in transposing the services directive in relation to social services, only a specific framework can bring legal certainty and quality of service. smes and local authorities expect clarity and legal certainty in the award of public contracts such as public contracts for social housing. however, we also did not want to vote against this report, which contains important elements, in particular with regard to social and environmental standards which must be able to be incorporated into calls for tenders, recommendations to facilitate access for smes and a clear call for vigilance in public-private partnership contracts.
it is essential to make european policies consistent in the service of development. however, mrs keller's report sometimes tends to be either excessive or vague in its wording. i am very clear that i am saying 'yes' to the harmonization of european policies but 'no' to the challenge to the commitments made by the european union (and by france) in the world trade organization. our agriculture must evolve gradually and taking into account the difficulties faced by our farmers, who are essential actors in our countryside and in our cities. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. one billion four hundred million people worldwide live on less than one euro a day. the european union must act against this reality. this requires greater efficiency and effectiveness of development cooperation and aid policies. the implementation of commitments in the area of official development assistance (oda) remains insufficient. to address the development emergency, we call on the commission to urgently identify additional innovative sources of financing for development, such as a tax on international financial transactions to generate additional resources to overcome the worst consequences of the crisis. in the same spirit, member states should reaffirm the millennium summit commitment to devote 0.7% of gnp to oda over the next decade, taking into account the absorption capacity and good governance of recipient states. finally, european development policy must be linked to flexible regulation of the movement of people, goods and capital with developing countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report from the european parliament, which responds to the european commission's analysis of the penalties applicable in the event of serious infringements of social legislation in road transport. there are now differences between the european states which are disturbing the proper functioning of the internal market and road safety. the european parliament's committee on transport proposes here some ways of finding solutions. in particular, the report proposes to harmonise penalties by means of a common categorisation of fines. it called for the creation of a coordinating body to work on improving cooperation between states in the implementation of social legislation and for the formation of inspection bodies. finally, the report stresses the need to provide sufficient information to businesses and drivers on relevant social legislation and penalties for infringements through the use of printed media, information technology and intelligent transport systems. i fully support these proposals and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. since 2006, a european regulation has required all road hauliers operating in europe to comply with the same maximum daily driving time and rest periods, in order to ensure the safety of european roads. unfortunately, these measures are far from being applied optimally: the penalties for an offence vary completely from one state to another. the fine imposed on a driver who exceeds the maximum daily driving time by more than two hours is ten times higher in spain than in greece. in some states, a prison sentence is required for serious offenses, while in others, the driver's license is simply revoked! this lack of harmonisation undermines the effectiveness of the regulation and creates a serious legal uncertainty for road hauliers. i voted for mrs ranner's report which calls on the commission to propose minimum and maximum penalties for infringements which would be harmonised in all member states. the report also calls for the creation of a simple and accessible information brochure to inform truck drivers of the risks they face in the event of a breach.
madam president, commissioner, stimulating, coordinating and supervising organ donation are our objectives, and that is why it is very important that we are here to help develop organ donation and transplantation in europe. at present, 60 000 people, european men and women, are waiting for a transplant in europe and, according to our estimates, 12 people die every day because of the lack of a transplant, because while 81% of europeans say they are in favour of the organ donor card, only 12% have one. the first thing to do is to harmonize practices, taking spain as an example, the good pupil of the twenty-seven. the rate of organ donation varies considerably from one country to another. so it is a question of harmonizing. the challenge is also to create a european network of organ donors, as you have just said, commissioner, which would better meet the needs of european citizens. it is also a question of improving cooperation between all the member states. we must ensure that we can set up national authorities to monitor the quality and safety of organs, from donation to transplantation. for example, in france, a person waiting for a liver transplant could thus benefit from a compatible organ from germany or italy, even though common minimum standards are applied throughout europe. it is also a matter of reaffirming, as has been said, the free and voluntary nature of donation, a way of fighting more effectively against organ trafficking and transplant tourism and thus preventing wealthy patients from going abroad - for example to china - to receive a transplant. finally, i welcome the action plan to develop transplantation in europe, on which we are also voting today, and i welcome the work of the rapporteurs, and in particular the report by mr andres perello rodriguez.
madam president, madam minister, commissioner, we have a debate today which shows that this is alarming and that to meet this challenge, the crossborder exchange of organs must be strengthened to link donors and recipients, and that in the absence of such action, given the length of waiting lists, there is very little chance that patients will receive the organs they need. this improvement in cross-border trade and the increase in the rate of donation make it imperative that binding common standards for the quality and safety of donations be adopted in the 27 member states. this is the point of a european framework in this area. of course, we have to be extremely vigilant on the issue of illegal organ trafficking. all means must be used to combat the mafia and transplant tourism. but be careful not to hinder the gifts of the living which must be the subject of a free and assumed choice. the principle of gratuitousness must be guaranteed and any pressure on a potential donor must be avoided. patients who wish to donate their organs should therefore be encouraged to do so, as the risk of rejection is much lower than for organs from deceased people. i also warn those who, for ethical reasons, would like to limit organ donation from living people in europe by using the risk of trafficking as an argument. organ donation from living people must be very carefully supervised and this is the only solution.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak about accession to the echr and accession to the icc. first of all, i should like to thank our rapporteurs for the quality of their reports and their willingness to incorporate each other's proposals in a spirit of broad consensus. beyond all that has been said in favour of this accession, i would like to stress two points which are important to me: the establishment of external control of the union and the extraterritoriality of the convention, that is to say its application to all acts of the union, including those outside the territory. let me hope that the clauses on human rights and democracy will then take on a little more meaning. the commission's negotiating mandate must therefore not only cover the convention itself and all the protocols and agreements already enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, but we must also commit ourselves very quickly to adhering to all the legal instruments of the echr in order to have a coherent system of protection of human rights. i would like to express two wishes on the icc. firstly, i would like the european union to be particularly vigilant in respect of the rights of victims and their legal representatives. this involves ad hoc legal aid, which allows the use of specialised external lawyers. and i have another wish, commissioner: that the union will put all its weight, all its energy, into ensuring that all the member states adapt their law to international justice. france, for example, has not yet done so. i regret that, just as i regret that large states such as the united states are not taking part in the establishment of this international justice for crimes against humanity.
madam president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i am pleased to be able to speak about this action plan, the road map, as mrs reding said, for implementing the stockholm programme. the subjects are many, they are fundamental, and rather than inventory them in advance, and i have very little time, i shall simply make some frustrating choices, one on form and one on substance, to discuss this issue. as regards the form, as we said in this debate, we have set ourselves very specific deadlines for implementing the measures and i would like us to do everything we can to take concrete action and to ensure that our words are not simply, as they say in france, 'verbal words' but that they take shape quickly. and for that, basically, two main points are required for this implementation to be successful. we need to set priorities. mrs reding was talking about value added. i propose that we focus on certain points which we consider more urgent than others: firstly, on judicial cooperation so that we can speak a common language on the legal front with, of course, an erasmus for judges, but why not an erasmus for all the judicial professions and another for the police professions! secondly, on the substance, a key priority is to take all measures to promote children's rights, their protection, the fight against cybercrime, child pornography and sexual exploitation.
author. - madam president, i also address the commission on this notification of aid for social housing by the netherlands, to which the european commission responds by saying that it is necessary to align itself with the competition rules. it has therefore advocated a thorough reform of social housing and its general interest missions and has, in my view, developed a narrow definition of what social services of general interest are. in fact, the commission recognises the social character of this public service, but stresses that it should be defined - i quote - 'in direct relation to the disadvantaged social groups' and that as a result the supply of social housing in the netherlands is in excess of the needs of disadvantaged social groups alone. the dutch government's proposal for social housing reform limits the volume of social housing that can be allocated to other social groups to 10%, but always on social criteria and in order of priority. this limitation is tantamount to calling into question another public service mission of the social housing service, namely the objective of social and urban mixedness which is defined for social housing by the dutch legislator. so the question, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is: on what legal basis in the treaty can the commission call into question the universality of social services and force a member state to redefine the tasks it assigns to one of these social services?
member of the commission. − madam president, the question put forward by the honourable members falls into three parts. the first: whether the commission is of the opinion that there should be one single definition of social housing in the eu. the second: the question on the principles of subsidiarity and universality. the third: a question of income limits for access to social housing. before replying to these questions, i would like to underline that the commission attaches great importance to social housing. social housing is a key tool for active social and economic inclusion policies in the european union. in reply to questions 1 and 2, i would like to be very clear. the commission imposes no single definition of social housing at eu level and fully respects the principle of subsidiarity. the honourable members rightly refer to the commission’s 2005 decision on state aid for services of general economic interest. this decision provides legal certainty in the provision of the services and reduces the administrative burden on the public authorities which finance them. according to this decision, aid to social housing which meets the conditions set by the decision receives preferential treatment, as it is exempted from notification – irrespective of the amounts involved. according to this decision, that exemption applies when social housing is qualified as a service of general economic interest by the member state concerned. it is for each member state to define the scope of social housing in line with its traditions, culture and state intervention. i would also like to refer to the commission communications of 2006 and 2007, which clearly highlighted the member states’ responsibility and wide discretion as regards social services of general interest. furthermore, this point was emphasised more recently in the protocol on services of general interest. however, as the term ‘social housing’ suggests, what is involved here is not housing in general, but housing provided on the basis of social criteria. this is why the recitals in the 2005 decision refer to housing for disadvantaged citizens or socially less advantaged groups which, due to solvency constraints, are unable to obtain housing at market conditions. the member states must therefore define a target group for social housing to allow social housing to be allocated in a transparent way and to prevent those most in need from being excluded. the member states have wide scope for manoeuvre in determining the size of the target group and in applying the social housing systems. the commission’s role is limited to checking that there is no manifest error in the definition. this approach was confirmed in a commission decision adopted in december 2009 on social housing in the netherlands. this approach is also fully in line with article 34 of the charter of fundamental rights, which refers to social and housing assistance for all those who lack sufficient resources. a clear definition of social housing also ensures that state aid cannot be channelled into financing commercial activities outside the scope of services of general economic interest. question 2 also refers to a universal right to housing. however, as i have already said, housing in general is not the same as social housing. clear-cut, transparent eligibility and allocation criteria for social housing are in the interest of the beneficiaries and ensure the proper use of public funds. in reply to question 3, in which the honourable members ask why access to social housing is limited to households with an income of less than eur 33 000, i would like, here again, to be very clear. there is no income limit set at eu level for access to social housing. this amount concerns one member state – the netherlands. it was part of the changes introduced by the dutch authorities to bring the national social housing system in line with the european state aid rules. the dutch authorities set such a limit to identify the target group for social housing in the netherlands. the commission did not identify any errors with that definition of social housing and therefore approved the dutch state aid scheme. i would add that the target group defined by the dutch authorities is very wide and covers 43% of the dutch population.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, you have just said that the commission attaches great importance to social housing. this is a fundamental right which is not applied in our countries. it is also another black spot in our current model of european construction. as for the rest of your answer, commissioner, you quoted the commission's usual brief, but the truth of the matter is that the commission, your commission and the european court of justice are dictating the law from the european treaties on the basis of a murderous principle, that of free and undistorted competition, and thus creating illegal access to housing construction and housing itself. it's worse. it was in 2005 that the european commission defined social housing as reserved for - and i quote - "disadvantaged people or vulnerable social groups". the commission is therefore encouraging the creation of ghetto cities for the poor, to the detriment of social diversity. like many colleagues, i support the idea of a new framework directive which would be positive and progressive, but i fear that it is the very principle of competition enshrined in the treaties which would have to be changed. on the other hand, i am afraid that president barroso's statements, confirmed by the ecofin council today, which recommend a priori budgetary control, will lead to a reduction in expenditure on social housing and social housing in particular. i believe that europe must start from a new base.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to make a point: there is no community competence in housing policy in general and social housing in particular. however, in the decision referred to in this oral question, the commission gives a definition of social housing. it has been said on several occasions that the problem of social housing and access to housing is today, in this period of crisis, a major problem, commissioner. let us put a little humanity back into our technical, legal and even technocratic debates. beyond housing as such, social housing is the foundation of genuine integration, of genuine social inclusion for those who benefit from it. the definition given in the context of the commission's state aid control is highly questionable. the great french philosopher descartes, who was born in my region, the loire valley, said: 'the general interest is a circle whose centre is known but whose circumference is not', mr commissioner. so i'm going to ask you two questions. the first is simple: what is the legal value of this definition? is it intended to apply to all member states? the second question is much more general. where does the commission see the community's competence in the organisation of public services beginning and ending? because this is a big question. the same applies to the universality and accessibility of public services.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the collapse of the rig off the coast of louisiana on 22 april caused a black tide of exceptional proportions. this raises three important questions. the lack of systems in place to stop a leak of this nature and scale in advance is hard to understand. the same applies to the lack of sufficient controls by the public authorities on safety systems required and implemented by platform operators to avoid pollution risks and, finally, the specific risk associated with oil pollution in particularly sensitive and/or populated areas. our colleague mr sonik has just mentioned the catastrophic consequences of pollution, for example in the baltic sea. the north sea has already been the site of at least two major offshore platform accidents and is one of the most densely concentrated platform areas in the world. in these circumstances it is absolutely essential that we make a statement to ensure that a similar accident is not possible off our coast and we are pleased, commissioner, that such an initiative has been taken. what measures do you intend to take in the immediate future to improve safety and prevent accidents on offshore platforms in our territorial waters? you have spoken of minimum standards, commissioner, but that is not enough. secondly, i'm not sure. what controls are in place to ensure that safety requirements are met to the fullest? it is not enough that there are safety rules on paper, they must also be applied and that the application of these rules is actually monitored. what are you going to do to make that happen? thirdly, what measures have been taken to prevent pollution of the coast in the event of an accident? it's all very well to have ships and civilian forces but what do we have? is it not time to require specific technical measures from operators which could be shared? is it not also necessary, in view of the fact that environmental damage is now covered by community law, to provide for an adequate system of compensation and financial guarantee? finally, oil companies are drilling deeper and deeper, making it very difficult to respond to accidents and endangering the marine environment. what measures are planned for the exploitation of offshore oil in deeper waters and, in particular, in the far north? finally, i would like to return to the question that our colleague mr arsenis has just asked: is it not time to consider an extended moratorium under the same conditions as those which the united states wants to put in place? we want and need to get out of the oil company, isn't it time?
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the oil spill in the gulf of mexico is a real ecological and economic disaster. it appears that irregularities have been found in the granting of drilling permits by the u.s. department of the interior. this would be an unforgivable recklessness with incalculable consequences, and not just for the united states of america. if we consider that hundreds of offshore drilling permits are granted by governments around the world, if these permits were granted with the same levity, it would pose serious problems for the whole world. as a representative of the outermost regions of europe and the octs, which are almost entirely made up of islands, some 130 in all, spread over the three continents, i must express my great concern for our islands in the face of offshore oil exploration projects. this is why it is imperative that the european union, which must set an example, should review with the utmost rigor the safety and prevention measures on its own offshore oil platforms. moreover, accidental or operational spills of oil into the sea, not necessarily by europe, are estimated at several tens of thousands of tonnes each year. should the european union not take steps to ensure that offshore platforms are now subject to an unquestioned scientific authority, which should be set up in the form of an international authority? after copenhagen and in preparation for cancun, the european union would be honoured to promote a genuine global governance for the search, protection and exploitation of the resources of the seabed.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i think it is essential to recall first of all in this case, as in others, that the precautionary principle must prevail when human lives are at stake. if it is to prevail, its application must not, however, lead to extreme decisions which would lead citizens to regard precaution as inept. so why was the use of an old mathematical and virtual weather model taken into account in this dossier and why was there no response from pilot unions who advocated test flights and the launching of sounding balloons? perhaps we could have avoided the total paralysis of airports and the resulting chaos. while the very important personalities have always been treated well, many european citizens have been abandoned by everyone, including their own government. finally, i would like to reiterate my request for a parliamentary committee of inquiry to look into the fraudulent practices that have been perpetrated by some in the context of this crisis.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has finally reacted. the heads of state and government have finally begun to take stock of the problems by agreeing, ten days ago, to a plan to support our currency, the euro. it is a plan which reflects the measure of european solidarity, contrary to all those who doubted it, but a plan which remains insufficient and must be accompanied by measures to reduce our national budget deficits, by measures of social and fiscal budgetary concertation between the twenty-seven. i think we're all saying the same thing this morning, and for the last two weeks, we've all been saying the same thing. then let's do it then! finally, a plan which was completed last wednesday by the european commission's decision, which i welcome, to drastically strengthen surveillance and the establishment of a stability pact. ladies and gentlemen, we will not get by without all these measures. we will not get away with this without political courage, because the measures which we should have taken collectively at european level and individually at national level will have to be taken now. this applies to governments of both right and left. i am very sorry that the german socialists did not have the courage to vote in the bundestag on the european aid plan. we must learn from all this. first lesson: we must know the truth about national public accounts, just as we know the truth about european public accounts. i ask the european commission to ensure that this is done and to punish, not just to denounce timidly, any state which fails to meet this obligation. you know very well that we are all afraid of the radar, we are all afraid of the sanctions, of the number of points on our licences when we are on the roads. we're built that way, so there's got to be some sanctions. it is the b.a.b.a. of any serious policy on the subject. secondly, the 27 must concentrate on their budgetary guidelines well in advance. the commission asked for it last week. i myself asked that in this house a few weeks ago. i know it irritates the member states that they are being asked to concentrate. but the member states will have to get used to being irritated in the future if they continue to treat their public finances as if they were living on a desert island, as if they were not bound together by a currency and therefore by a necessary common discipline. and what is true of national budgets is also true of social and fiscal policy. because, once again, i understand the anger of some of our fellow citizens who are asked to sacrifice themselves for others who work less and retire earlier. this too cannot last. and that's the third lesson i've learned from this crisis. the euro will only be viable if we collectively give ourselves the means to do so. i am not denying president obama's economic adviser, mr volcker, who said that the euro is in danger of disintegrating if we do not change our culture and behaviour. we must move from national to european reflexes. we must move from short-term policies designed to keep our national governments in the polls, to medium- and long-term plans, which our employers are demanding in order to be able to invest and employ. my group calls on europe to wake up. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. those who clean up their public finances will be rewarded financially; those who procrastinate will be punished! the commission, mr rehn, must not be afraid to do so. it is a service to europeans, it is a service to states. the big question that our fellow citizens are asking in all our meetings right now is "are our savings books still guaranteed?" i understand those citizens who have worked their whole lives to have a few savings on their savings books. that is the first reason we must give them: the guarantee of their savings book. and that is simply what the commission should do. it was created for that. it is only in this context, ladies and gentlemen, that the 2020 strategy will make sense. only if we get serious again, only if we play collectively with our public accounts, can we win the battle of unemployment, education, training, research and innovation. i said it yesterday and i say it every day: if we have to make savings in all our countries, we, the members of the european parliament, the european civil servants, must also set an example, otherwise we will not be credible. i have to say this and i always hope - i have experienced some very serious and very deep crises - that this crisis will at least serve as a new beginning for europe and its citizens.
mr president, you will not calm down the financial markets without reversing a sacrosanct principle which you defend, namely the total freedom of movement of capital and the so-called free competition, which is in fact an inequality of competition. today, we put a lot of money on the table but in fact it is to reassure the financial markets, while to the people, you promise blood and tears. you have brought the imf back into the european fold. why were we not consulted on this decision? and now you want to use force to usurp power by having the commission itself control the national budgets. you talk about deficits and debts all the time. but why are we never told about the revenue possibilities that exist? the reason for the current deficit is that the tax on capital has been continually reduced and the conditions have been created for an increasingly unequal distribution of wealth. the measures that should be taken therefore include the amendment of the statute and the role of the european central bank. it would require real solidarity... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, this is perhaps the most serious crisis facing europe today and that is why there is urgency. we must make decisions, good decisions, and we must do so without waiting for october. the back-up plan was an early decision, perhaps too late, but better late than never; but now it must be urgently supplemented by the creation, in the long term, of a genuine european monetary fund, by the establishment of a european bond market and by the creation of a european credit rating agency, because as we all know, the single currency cannot function without budgetary, fiscal, economic and political convergence. and when europe does not feel governed, it is very simple, it leaves all the room for markets and speculators. we talk a lot about economic governance, but perhaps we should focus on the issue of the governance of the european union itself, which we have been missing lately. i think we must have two objectives. yes, of course, we must reduce the debt, but we must do so in a realistic and credible way, and at the same time we must create the room for manoeuvre and make the necessary reforms to prepare for the future. we have to do both of those things at the same time. that is why it is vital to create synergies between the national budgets of the member states - i would have preferred the commission to say it this way - that is why it is probably vital to reform our taxation, to make it more in the service of development and growth and to harmonize it. we will not have monetary union without fiscal, economic and political convergence.
mr president, mr rehn, as you know, there are two ways of reducing deficits. there are the spending cuts and there are the tax increases. cutting expenditure is something that all the member states can do at the same time, but separately, and they do not need european coordination for this. on the other hand, if they are to raise taxes, particularly taxes on capital, on companies, on profits and on banks, they need european coordination. in your communication last week, there is absolutely nothing on this subject. my question, which is quite widely shared by colleagues in the european parliament, regardless of the group, is the following: will you propose in the coming weeks a plan for fiscal coordination to give the member states the means to regain room for manoeuvre so that they can raise certain taxes, which they cannot do separately? this is the added value of the european commission today. there's nothing planned, unfortunately. mr. verhofstadt said you had a right of initiative. today you have a duty to take the initiative in this matter.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank the commissioner and the spanish presidency for all that has been done in recent times, albeit belatedly. it's not easy to fly in a storm. you've broken more locks in a fortnight than in all the years before, and i wanted to encourage you to keep going. i have a message for everyone. i would first like to say to the spanish presidency that you will be responsible for adopting the 2020 strategy in june. don't give your name to a dummy. the lisbon strategy has not worked; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the european telecommunications industry. we need another method, as guy verhofstadt said. we also need financial supervision. we are being told that parliament is going too far. i'm a rapporteur for the european systemic risk committee. i notice that during the craziest weekend of the last few weeks, the word "systemic" came up several times. your presidency is responsible for this package. you have to be ambitious. you have our support. do not listen to those in the council who make a living from the absence of regulation. the second message is addressed to mr rehn, whose courage i commend; i fully support the commission's proposal that national parliaments should work much more upstream with the european level. we simply have to be very careful, because this will give a wide opportunity to all populists and all those who criticize europe. you have our support, but let us try to have an inclusive approach with the national parliaments, rather than giving them the feeling that 'brussels' is dictating everything to them. i note that it is the national parliaments, which we are told are the guarantors of democracy, that have put europe in the present situation by voting, every year, budgets in deficit for years.
mr president, the time has come for truth, clarity and responsibility in this crisis which is not only european but also global. the planetary government is in place. what will be the influence of the europeans? how are we going to influence this global governance if we are not able to set up our own european governance? who has not seen that after 50 years of construction we are running the risk of 50 years of deconstruction in the face of the rise of the selfishness of the nations? who has not seen that we are trying to create citizenship without citizens, to make politics without voters, to make believe in the ideal of a rule of law without respecting it? after the fall of the berlin wall, we reunited our continent by believing in our strengths and taking pride in not seeing our weaknesses. what's the matter now? the crisis is hitting us hard at a time when our european construction is fragile, with governments that are badly governed and sometimes corrupt. the chain of solidarity in the union is being tested at the moment, and we all know that the strength of a chain is that of the weakest link. we have a right to save the weakest, for the time has come, and it will be our strength to have saved him. it is not the european rules that are bad, it is their application by the member states and the european commission, which has not sufficiently monitored the states, that is defective. we need not less europe, but more europe, a europe of truth, clarity and responsibility. yes, we must respect the stability and growth pact which must be renewed. but the task before us now is to regain the confidence of the citizens, and that requires growth and employment. and growth comes through investment. if the public sphere does not invest, we should not expect the private sphere to do so. beyond a much-needed industrial policy, i am proposing a major european investment plan of €1 000 billion over the ten years of the 2020 strategy, aimed at making the union the most competitive in the world in terms of transeuropean networks, infrastructure, interconnection, high-speed trains, highways, water, space, research, health, energy, education, by renewing our budgetary intervention, in conjunction with all the public actors and, in particular, the eib.
mr president, first of all it is true that the sudden emergence and the scale of the greek crisis have caused a great deal of fear among our fellow citizens, which i think is justified. it is not, as one of my colleagues said earlier, a question of pointing the finger at greece, but it is important, it is urgent - and we have been talking about this for some time - to draw the necessary lessons to build a more political europe and to move towards economic governance. the need for economic governance is urgent. so i hear the commission is proposing that we should be able to examine national budgets beforehand. i think that we should not jump from one subject to another. the main point is that the urgency is about european economic governance and not about the commission's prior examination of national budgets. i believe that this proposal would point to constitutional inconsistencies, but would also create slowness and complexity, which europe absolutely does not need today. the urgent need is european economic governance and not the prior examination of national budgets.
i shall be very brief, mr president. it seems to me that despite its ambiguous wording, amendment no 4 should have been declared inadmissible because it contradicts the treaties and, even more so, the interpretation of those treaties which has been given very clearly by a judgment of the court of justice of the european communities in luxembourg, which provides for the maintenance of the current number of sessions in strasbourg. i understand that some of our colleagues may be against this, but the fact remains that the treaties are absolutely formal and the judgment of the luxembourg court is no less so in the present state of the law.
mr president, i am a little more reserved on this point than the colleagues who have just spoken. the idea of subjecting european law to the jurisdiction of the european court of human rights is, in fact, a priori quite attractive. it was shocking, in a way, that national rights could be censored by this court. in any case, the application of the law by the national courts is that european law does not apply, especially since european law, for example in my country, france, has, under article 55 of our constitution, a higher value than that of french domestic laws. but it is questionable whether this mechanism does not lead to some form of duplication of work. on the one hand, european law is rarely directly applicable within the member states and is transposed by rules of domestic law as a result of the transposition of secondary law. the court of justice of the european communities in luxembourg has also shown itself to be concerned about respect for fundamental rights. it also assimilated this right as it results from the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights. it is to be feared that this will lead to a considerable lengthening of the procedures, especially if, as some have claimed, a mechanism for referring questions for a preliminary ruling is put in place. that is why we would have liked to have distinguished between adherence to the standards and participation in the appeal mechanism.
mr president, at a time when such dramatic events are taking place in thailand, we cannot but be sensitive to the need to prosecute serious crimes against civilian populations. however, the historical experience is less encouraging than a number of colleagues said yesterday in the debate. in the first international criminal court, those who decided to burn the civilian population of the city of dresden with napalm without any military purpose, those who decided to burn the civilian population of hiroshima and nagasaki with atomic radiation, those who decided to murder the polish officers in prison with a bullet in the neck, were among the judges, when they should have been among the accused. the record of the former international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, especially in the milosevic and šešelj cases, is also not very satisfactory. as regards the compensation fund which is being set up, if we turn to the member states, will europe compensate the victims of genocides which took place outside its territory? there are hundreds of thousands, millions of people who are considered. i'm afraid we're getting into a rather complex situation. finally, the pursuit of the vanquished, despite the assurances sometimes given them, to reach a peace agreement, risks prolonging the conflict indefinitely; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. i vote in favour of this report. it admits that the market is not in a position to implement the rationalisation of energy use. this is an undeniable concession in the sense of our theses, which i would like to welcome. i also welcome the desire for harmonization on the part of the labelling authorities in the field of energy saving. it is regrettable, however, that the total ecological footprint labelling of products is not being proposed anywhere, when we need to put it in place as soon as possible.
in writing. the report by vladimir maňka makes some changes to the 2010 budget of the european parliament. i voted in favour of this report, and in particular the provisions it contains following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009. among these was the increase of eur 1500 per month in the parliamentary assistance allowance. this increase is intended to enable members to meet their new responsibilities arising from the treaty of lisbon, which considerably extends the scope of parliament's activities and thus increases its weight in european decision-making. in relation to the commission and the member states, parliament needs to strengthen its expertise on legislative dossiers. we represent the european citizens and if we are to defend their interests we need the right means. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of a draft directive on the quality and safety standards of human organs for transplantation. the directive covers all stages of the chain, from donation to transplantation, and provides for cooperation between member states. an effective transplantation system is not only based on the solidarity of the donors, but it is based on the correct use of information and on the quality of the network that allows this information to be shared. i therefore supported the idea of creating a european database of information on available organs, as well as a pan-european certification system providing evidence that the proposed human organs and tissues have been legally obtained. indeed, organ donation must be voluntary and not paid to ensure equal access to available organs. however, the principle of non-payment shall not prevent living donors from receiving compensation, provided that it is strictly limited to compensating for expenses and loss of income resulting from the donation. such a transparent, safe and efficient system of donation is the only way to combat organ trafficking
in writing. food and health issues are extremely sensitive issues. they must be treated with the seriousness and the restraint they require. this is particularly the case in the debate on the authorization of food additives such as thrombin. thrombin is a plasma and blood product from animals (beef/pork) that has wound healing properties used by the food industry to reconstitute meat from various pieces. this additive fulfils the 4 criteria of regulation 1333/2008 for authorisation: food safety (confirmed by efsa in its 2005 opinion), the response to a technological function (high utility as a stabiliser), the non-deception of the consumer (use limited to pre-packaged products and labelled accordingly), the provision of a benefit to the consumer (stabilisation of the final product). the overwhelming majority of member states are also in favour of authorising thrombin. the additive does not therefore present a health hazard and plays a real role in food preparation, so there was no reason to oppose its authorization.
in writing. i voted for a resolution calling for thrombin not to be used in meat. thrombin is used as a binder in the recombined meat. it poses a health risk because the process of binding various pieces of meat significantly increases the surface area of food that may have been contaminated by a bacterium. in addition, the use of recombined meat may mislead consumers when they wish to buy meat.
in writing. i very much regret the adoption of this resolution on the rejection of bovine and porcine thrombin. the text is not based on any valid scientific basis. this food additive, derived from animal plasma and blood, which is used in prepackaged products to collect meat from separate pieces, meets all the hygiene and safety criteria imposed by efsa. it's allowed in france and we find it in pudding, for example. so it's important that we base our decisions on scientific data and not media. let's not get into an emotional debate. in addition, labelling requirements for products containing this additive were tightened, with the word 'thrombin' and the word 'reconstituted meat' being displayed prominently. there was therefore no question of misleading the consumer, who would have been better informed.
in writing. the health and food security of european citizens is at stake. the question was raised in the european parliament with regard to thrombin, a food additive used to 'aggregate' pieces of meat, the final appearance of which can easily mislead the consumer. the food industry was already welcoming the widespread use of this substance; and because of that, they could get rid of their meat drops and sell low-quality pieces at low prices. although the european food safety authority has concluded that thrombin is safe, i remain particularly sceptical about these results. it was time to show the commission that food safety and health are major concerns for the european parliament. i am therefore pleased that this vote rejects this enzyme.
in writing. in europe, 12 people die every day because they did not receive a transplant on time, and 60,000 people are waiting for a transplant. however, there is still no organ exchange network at eu level. while a directive will be coming soon, i voted with the other members a resolution which sets out parliament's approach to the matter. three areas are particularly sensitive: the cross-border exchange of available organs, information for citizens and the identification of potential donors. the resolution suggests, for example, that citizens should be able to declare themselves as 'voluntary donors' on the internet.
in writing. organ donations and transplants are increasing every year in europe, saving thousands of lives. however, there are still many obstacles to overcome, as the number of these is still below the requirements. every day, in the european union, about a dozen patients die because of a lack of matching donors. organ donation varies considerably between member states, with, for example, 34.6 donations per million inhabitants in spain compared to 0.5 in romania. in addition, organ exchange between member states is rarely practised. the european parliament's vote lays the foundation stone for a european network to meet the needs of rapid, flexible and safe transplants, on the model of eurotransplant (austria, benelux, croatia, germany, the netherlands and slovenia) and scandiatransplant (sweden, denmark, finland, norway and iceland). the european union will also develop the use of the donor card, which, although favoured by 81% of european citizens, is held by only 12%. member states will have to ensure that donations are free of charge, traceable and confidential, in particular to curb transnational organ trafficking
in writing. several thousand people die each year in europe because they have not been able to receive a transplant in time. the need to implement european provisions to facilitate intra-community trade in human organs for transplantation was therefore urgently felt, through the strengthening of quality and safety standards in this field. that is why i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to protect living donors and donors and guarantees fundamental ethical principles such as anonymity, voluntariness and the inalienable nature of the human body, which must not be a source of profit. the idea of setting up a network of competent authorities in the member states also seems to me particularly positive, as does the idea of online registration in national or european registers. of course, every possible precaution will be taken to ensure that these measures work properly.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the action plan on organ donation and transplantation for 2009-2015. the technical progress in organ transplantation is a great source of hope for all those for whom transplantation remains the only possible treatment. the main challenge today is the shortage of organ donors, as evidenced by the long waiting lists for transplant patients. to meet this challenge, measures related to the identification of potential donors are essential and much progress can be made to increase the rate of organ donation in europe. the rapporteur stresses that the presence of an organ donor in hospitals is probably the key to better organ donation organisation. strengthening cooperation between member states will make possible a better exchange of information and good practice for an increase in donation rates. for example, giving citizens the opportunity to register on a donor register when applying for a passport or a driving licence is an initiative which the member states should consider putting into practice and which i, along with most of my colleagues, consider to be positive.
in writing. the lisbon treaty provides for the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights (echr), which i welcome. to become effective, such accession requires the unanimous agreement of the members of the council and the approval of the european parliament. for my part, i fully support this accession, which complements the european system for the protection of fundamental rights.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon provides that the european union is to accede to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. this accession is not merely symbolic: it makes it possible to improve the protection of the fundamental rights of european citizens. it will also have the effect of subjecting decisions and actions taken in the framework of the common foreign, security and defence policy to the european convention, whereas the latter are not subject to review by the court of justice of the eu.
in writing. the protection of fundamental human rights must remain a national competence, as interpretations vary from country to country and from culture to culture. this is particularly the case with the notions of discrimination, secularism and the very definition of human life (from its beginning to its natural end). the court of justice of the eu - an institution whose decisions are increasingly political - will seek to dismantle national constitutional orders and the civilized foundations of europe. in addition to being useless and wasteful, the eu's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights will cause confusion and legal conflicts with the court of strasbourg. i am logically opposed to this new consequence of the eu's legal personality, as provided for by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to give the green light to the negotiations for the european union's accession, as a legal personality in its own right, to the european convention for the protection of human rights. accession will open up a new avenue of recourse for citizens: they will be able to bring a complaint to the european court of human rights against an eu institution or a member state for infringement of fundamental rights, whether in the context of action or inaction. we must also insist on the eu's accession to the additional protocols to the european convention for the protection of human rights and the revised european social charter, because these are further steps towards which the eu must also commit itself.
in writing. the judgments of the european court of human rights on the separation of church and state are in line with the secular tradition of the french republic. the decisions approving the ban on the veil by a female teacher in class and ruling against crucifixes in the classroom are evidence of this. on the contrary, the court of justice of the european union considers that public freedoms can be restricted only in the name of the values proclaimed by the fundamental texts of the european union. but they never mention the requirement of separation of church and state and the secular nature of institutions. the european union is thus unable to guarantee the freedom of conscience of europeans.
in writing. i note with satisfaction that the resolution proposed by parliament on the revision of the rome statute calls for the inclusion of the crime of aggression as a war crime to be formalised and that no judicial filter is necessary to denounce it. but how can this new legislation be implemented if we do not insist that the main states that have committed crimes of aggression since the rome statute came into force in 2002 (the united states and israel) ratify it? how can it be effective if we do not urge these states to stop pressuring the states parties to the international criminal court to guarantee the immunity of their nationals? it is also regrettable that a parliament which claims to be at the forefront of the fight against climate change does not propose to include ecological crimes as crimes against humanity as was proposed at the cochabamba peoples' summit. the most serious crimes against humanity must be punished. the icc could be a good tool for this. it's just a matter of giving him the means to do it. in their absence, i abstain.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the owninitiative report on which we are voting this week is of particular symbolic importance at a time when the markets are failing to assess the risks linked to the economic situation in the euro area. after demanding strict fiscal adjustment policies, they now doubt the ability of the member states to revive growth and thus to generate the tax revenue needed to pay the interest on the debt. unfortunately, risk assessment is impossible in a context of radical uncertainty such as the one the world economy is now experiencing. this is all the more important in the european union, where the rate of utilisation of production capacity is at its lowest. instead of investing, companies are now decommissioning machines, as demand is lacking despite the first signs of recovery at the end of 2009. the growth would even be reversed if restrictive measures were to kill the recovery in the egg. the first objective of our report was precisely to determine the most appropriate time to initiate exit policies. we proposed that the support measures should be maintained until the normal rate of capacity utilization was reached. we suggested that the principle of countercyclical fiscal policies, which were successfully applied during the first phase of the crisis in 2008 and 2009, be endorsed, in line with the spirit of the 2005 revision of the stability pact. these policies are based on the use of automatic stabilisers, i.e. allocating primary budget surpluses to debt relief at the top of the cycle and allowing member states to borrow the resources needed for recovery at the bottom of the cycle. we're currently at the bottom of the cycle. it is true that interest rates are rising and threatening the sustainability of debt. if that were the case, the european central bank had done well in announcing that it would buy back part of the debts to allow member states to diversify their sources of financing. however, apart from the fact that this notion of sustainability has never been defined in the economic literature, can it be said that the risk premiums demanded by the markets are justified? no, if one considers that the risk is impossible to assess on the mortgage derivatives market, just as it is impossible to assess on the public debt market. that is why we proposed in our report to pay some attention to the structural deficit indicator rather than focusing on it. (the president cut the speaker off) that is why we proposed in our report that some attention should be paid to the structural deficit indicator rather than to the current account deficit, which is so large because of the deterioration in short-term balances. this is the result of the crisis which has reduced growth and tax revenues. these revenues were furthermore dampened by tax cuts which did not cause the expected supply shock. our report makes three recommendations, together with operational indicators. first, to maintain support measures until the recovery is consolidated. secondly, to monitor structural deficits, which remain close to balance despite the deterioration in cyclical balances, in order to give a reassuring signal to the markets on the state of public finances. thirdly, to assess the effectiveness of tax expenditure and, in particular, of certain tax cuts which are not unrelated to the decline in tax revenue. unfortunately, for the liberals and the conservatives on the committee on economic and monetary affairs, common sense is irrelevant, the impact of the crisis is irrelevant, the massive indebtedness is also due to the bank rescue plans. the only thing that counts is their blind faith in the efficiency of the financial markets, the only thing that counts is their dogmatic adherence to a stability pact that is clearly outdated. there is no need for them to create the tools of economic governance which are essential to strengthening the union. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and to ensure that the social partners are able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. that is the line they have taken in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the economic health of europe has worsened since that vote. the european central bank and the commission have finally produced monetary and budgetary instruments which should improve the economic governance of the euro area. but the markets plunged again, worried about the austerity plans. the ecofin council had to go back to work on monday. in this context, the amendments we are tabled are very moderate. we are introducing new ones. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. they advocate a public rating agency to free member states from the dictates of the markets. these are the signals that parliament must send. mr othmar, this is no longer the time for ideological tension. it is also not in the short-sighted national electoral calculations. europe needs policies with a real ambition to strengthen the union. if you and your group fail to take up this task, if you are no longer able to serve the general interest, be assured that the citizens will draw the right conclusions, because the future of the euro area is now at stake.
author. - mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to ask a few questions about our programming and our ability to organise our debates. i am very pleased to be involved in this debate with all these initiatives of the european parliament, but i feel as if i were, as we say in french, in a 'melting pot' which i am not sure exactly defines the european parliament's vision of strategy 2020. but maybe i'm being too demanding. i hope, however, that you share my concern, mr president, because on behalf of all of us you put a very important request to president herman von rompuy on 10 may. as regards the adoption of the employment guidelines, this year, exceptionally if i may say so, in the framework of a privileged partnership between the commission and the european parliament, and in a spirit of good cooperation with the council, given the slightly delayed timetable. normally the employment guidelines are published at the end of the previous year. this year they were published at the end of april and we will have to deliberate on them, as they commit us to a long cycle for the years to come, before the spring european council. you would have been pleased to support, on behalf of us all, the request we made to president herman von rompuy that the european council leave the european parliament the right to exercise its powers, in the name of the lisbon treaty. but it is clear that neither the commission nor the council has any intention of taking this request into account and is therefore consciously breaking the treaty. i think the authorities in this house will have to take responsibility and suffer the consequences. on the question of these employment guidelines, which will be an element in the implementation of the 2020 strategy, how can we fail to draw the attention of the authorities to the importance of these guidelines at a time when 17% of europeans are below the poverty line, based on figures from 2007, i always remind you, that is to say even before the outbreak of the crisis, and when 23 million of our compatriots will be unemployed. the committee on employment and social affairs is very concerned about two things. first of all, on the poverty reduction objective, i believe that on the initiative of commissioner lászló andor, this objective has been included in the 2020 strategy, and we welcome this. we do not understand how this point is the subject of discussions, hesitations and questions about the union's competence in the council, even though a clear reading of the treaty indicates that this is an area where the european union also has responsibilities. and then there is the other concern about the articulation and coherence between the different policies, because in this 2020 strategy we see that the commission tells us that it has fundamentally changed things, since it has reduced the number of objectives. i believe that fundamental change cannot be reduced to a reduction in objectives. we are convinced, however, that this 2020 strategy must take account of the reality of the situation in the european union. and in this situation, those who are suffering the most from the crisis today, those who will be hit hardest by the crisis, are the very people who make the european union rich. but here and there we see debates developing which risk turning against the very interests of europeans, since they would lead to a reduction in investment where it is most needed, that is to say in our long-term capital: education, training, health. it is in the face of this challenge that the committee on employment and social affairs calls on the authorities to pay attention to the way in which public investment could be reduced in these areas, even though the weakness of growth and the weakness of the private investment initiative do not make it possible to ensure the relaunch and therefore the reconstruction of public finances in the immediate future. we are concerned about the timetable, which seems to us to be the decisive factor, and we can only regret that the ministers for economic and monetary affairs were able to advocate the withdrawal of unconventional measures to support employment and the fight against unemployment, even though the ministers for social affairs had not been consulted in a context in which we know the dramatic nature of the employment and social affairs situation in our european union.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr barnier, in your speech you mentioned mr monti's report, which was presented to you a few days ago. there is a very interesting aspect to mr monti's report, namely the emphasis it places on the urgent need to take a further step in our tax cooperation. it states explicitly that the criteria of the stability pact must be applied, but that if they are applied only by playing on expenditure, by cutting it, we are heading towards an economic recession that is almost certain. it is therefore imperative to act on both pillars, and in particular on the fiscal pillar, to enable the member states to collect a certain amount of additional revenue from economic factors, economic actors which have been taxed less and less in recent years: corporate profits and capital, financial transactions. to do this, european coordination is essential. this is the conclusion of mr monti's report which was submitted two days ago. but there is nothing strictly on the subject in the eu 2020 strategy presented by the commission. there is nothing strictly on the subject in olli rehn's communication published a few days ago. this is one of the major pillars, one of the fundamental added values that the european commission can bring now. pervenche berès said that this debate had a little "melting pot" fiscal coordination makes it possible to make the link between the eu 2020 strategy, the report on the governance of the euro area, the single market and also the employment and education aspects. we know very well that if we adopt the rules of the stability pact - what else must be done - but only by cutting spending, then we are heading for social regression and economic recession. so my question is very clear: what are you going to put on the table in the coming weeks, mr barnier, as the commission's representative? how will you convince your colleagues - if you are convinced yourself - of the need for an action plan, a plan for fiscal coordination, to enable the member states to regain the ability to raise new revenue from a number of agreements? what are your proposals? you have no right to remain silent. the commission has a right of initiative, but it now has a duty to take initiative on these matters.
mr president, i would also like to take the opportunity of mr grech's very interesting report in this debate on strategy 2020 to say that it seems to me essential that in this strategy for the future we do not forget the consumer. when i look at the commission's text on strategy 2020, i see that there is almost no mention of the consumer. in the present crisis, we must never forget that investment is the key variable, but consumption accounts for 60 to 70% of our gross domestic product in the various countries from which we come. so i would like to see strategy 2020 take this further. i dream of a europe that has become a pioneer of a different kind of consumption, linked to the knowledge triangle, linked to sustainable development, a europe that is able to develop production conditions, products that are of interest to the consumer, that are made with him, a europe that relies on quality and no longer on quantity for quantity. i dream of increased competition, not in favour of the discount for the sake of the discount, but in favour of improving consumer satisfaction. so, commissioner, my question is very simple. will you suggest to president barroso, will you, within the college, set up a group to work in this area so that the consumer is no longer seen as a variable of adjustment, as someone who suffers, but as an actor, an actor alongside you, alongside us, to build the society of the future that we really need?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial situation in europe fully justifies the vigorous measures that have been taken, particularly to stabilise the euro zone and to avoid jeopardising our common currency. the urgency justifies the empirical approach adopted. however, it is necessary to ensure that parliament is involved in the implementation of the measures adopted and can exercise its democratic control under appropriate conditions. it is important to ensure that our citizens do not lose or regain confidence in the political institutions, without which no structural reform, no acceptance of the necessary rigour will be possible. europe has not remained inactive in the face of the financial crisis. we don't say that enough. as early as 2009, we have developed and adopted a regulation on credit rating agencies, the implementing texts of which will be published very soon by the european commission. the economic committee of this parliament voted a few days ago on the package on the supervision of financial activities. last monday, the report on the regulation of alternative fund managers was adopted by a large majority by the same committee. the trilogues are engaged in seeking agreement with the council. this agreement must be reached quickly if our institutions are to retain their credibility. our fellow citizens often ask us: 'what is europe doing? " we have to live up to their expectations. in this respect, i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, on your determination and encourage you to maintain the work programme you have set out, in accordance with the commitments you made at your hearing. the ambitious but essential timetable you have set is approved by us. we will be at your side to ensure that the necessary regulation of financial services is achieved. it is not a question of putting a brake on the financial industry, but of putting in place the rules that will make it possible to regulate an activity that should be regulated, to ensure greater security of transactions and to achieve their transparency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you will not admit it, but the reality is clear. liberal europe is exhausted. she is as a myth. who can still believe in a deepening of its federal dimension when the most indebted countries are about to be beaten to the financial markets? but it is also, and very deeply, in its design and action. with the successive crises, the last one more powerful than all the others, public debt exploded. but more than that, the credibility of the eurozone has been shattered. the situation calls for genuine solidarity. the maastricht treaty excludes any solidarity between the countries of the euro zone. here we find the first european paradox. europe's exhaustion can also be seen in the wto negotiations and in the fiction we are regularly told that europe will protect us from globalisation. far from providing a shield and protection, european directives have often been ahead of the wto. in fact, we have opened up massively because of europe and we are now paying the price with the process of deindustrialization and the various forms of offshoring. for the sake of the people, there is an urgent need to reorient european policy.
mr president, the keyword of this 2020 strategy is growth. but whether we call it smart, sustainable or inclusive, it does not matter, a crisis is beginning in europe today, and it will not end tomorrow. the numerical targets of the 2020 strategy - improving employment rates, reducing poverty rates, etc. - sound like wishful thinking, because they are based on the same model as the failed lisbon strategy. europe is facing a crisis which calls for a much more visionary and much more political project, including new ideas which are so lacking in this 2020 strategy. i'm going to focus on one of them. finally, should we not set ourselves the objective of enhancing the cultural diversity of europe, which is a founding value of the union and which can provide for the economic development of our europe a raw material unrivalled elsewhere on other continents, through intangible assets such as the economy of culture, and through tangible assets such as the specific products of the various territories of europe? a strategic vision is also developed which is almost entirely geared to the member states. the member states, however, by their borders, by their historical logic, by their centralised administrations, continue to freeze europe in an outdated shackle. the future strategy of the european union needs to include a greater regional dimension. it is also necessary to promote macro-regional strategies which reorganise planning policies around the natural habitats of the continent, which are also its cultural and historical habitats: the baltic sea, the western mediterranean, the danube, the alps, the atlantic arc, etc. such an approach is currently being developed, particularly in the baltic sea, but it is not included in the 2020 strategy and is in danger of being stifled when the means for its implementation are needed. the 2020 strategy presented to us is therefore characterised by a very conventional and very technocratic approach. she has no political vision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree on the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and if we all agree on the objectives, we must now give ourselves the means to implement them. the means of implementing them are, in particular, the establishment of an economic government of the union. in order to make these fine words and these great objectives come true and to avoid, i would say, this kind of collective disillusionment with the lisbon strategy, we must give ourselves the means to act. it is in this sense that i fully support the commission's proposal to establish a priori control of national budgets at european level, with the caveat, however, that the national parliaments and the european parliament must be involved in this control mechanism. but i would like to say a word more specifically about the crisis and young people. i believe that young people have been one of the main victims of this crisis, and we must seize the opportunity to put young people back at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy. firstly, the europe 2020 strategy must be an inclusive strategy. mobility, which is the concrete expression of freedom of movement within the european union, must become a reality for all young people, not just young students. and it is in this sense that i hope to have the support of the commission in proposing an extension of the european mobility programmes for young apprentices. i also believe that this strategy must promote competent young people in order to combat the scourge of youth unemployment and, as we all know, the transition from education to employment is one of the major challenges facing young people. well, it is by strengthening their skills, for example by better targeting of european funds for youth policies, that we will make progress on this project. finally, all young europeans must have access to mobility and skills development because we need young innovators first and foremost. it is the young people of today who will create the growth and innovation of tomorrow. that is why i would like this europe 2020 strategy not to forget the youth dimension.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 may the european union gave a firm response to the financial markets, at the initiative of the ministers for economic affairs and finance. the european parliament, although subject to longer parliamentary procedures, must not be condemned to inaction. i think that this parliament and we members have three essential roles to play. firstly, we must give our full support to the governments and the commission in the recent initiatives. secondly, we must start working now to find the solutions which will enable us in the medium and long term to emerge from the crisis and to promote a truly dynamic growth model at the service of the real economy. this is the whole point of both the eu 2020 strategy and the priority objectives we will assign to the european structural funds for the period 2014-2020. and now, sharon, i would like to say to you that if the lisbon strategy is a failure in some way, it is because it was conceived a few years ago when the situation was not what it is today. and so the downside of this strategy is that it is not flexible, it is not adapted to the business cycle. that's the problem with strategy. the 2020 strategy will therefore be all the stronger if it has the capacity to adapt to a changing environment. finally, and this is the most important thing in my opinion, to explain on the ground what is happening at european level and to find the consent of public opinion. the citizens of europe woke up on monday 10 may to a new europe. they didn't make this transformation happen. no one can yet measure the long-term consequences. this transformation cannot bear fruit unless it finds its democratic roots. we were united in diversity, now we must be united in adversity. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two taboos have been broken in recent weeks. the first is that the central bank can now monetize sovereign debt. the second taboo that has been overcome is that it is now possible to finance community expenditure by borrowing, and this is particularly the case when the stabilization and support funds are created. there is a third taboo which has unfortunately not been broken, and that is the stability pact, which some here are dogmatically calling for to be strengthened. we socialists, commissioners, are in favour of federalism. we are in favour of the coordination of budgetary policies. but if the coordination of budgetary policies means putting parliaments under the control of the governments to provide their peoples with dry bread and water, then i am afraid that this is the great european idea which will end up taking the water itself. this is the real threat we face today. the austerity plans in greece, spain, portugal and france, commissioners, have no chance of succeeding. i ask you to be aware of that.
in writing. the eu 2020 strategy proposed by the european commission to boost growth and jobs in the european union focuses on research and innovation. various instruments are already providing significant support for projects in these areas: the structural funds, the seventh framework programme for research and development and the framework programme for innovation and competitiveness. these programmes provide funding of €86 billion for the period 2007-13. the eu 2020 strategy also emphasises the interdependence between the different policies of the european union. in the interests of efficiency, it is therefore essential to find synergies between the different instruments. i welcome the importance the rapporteur attaches to the role of a strong and properly funded regional policy in achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. i also share the rapporteur's view that the potential for synergies in funding is not always well known to potential beneficiaries. i therefore believe that it is essential to improve communication, for example on the model of the practical guide to eu funding opportunities for research and development.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress the importance of this report, which opens a debate in this parliament on the position and role of universities in europe. the latter must be encouraged to participate in european integration from within rather than from without. in european history, universities have always been places of encounter and exchange of knowledge, of development of thinking and of training open to different disciplines. today, the effects of the crisis and unemployment must not lead universities to limit their role as providers of immediately operational professionals, because in our changing societies the ability to change occupation becomes unavoidable. on the contrary, universities, as places of higher education and training, must enable learners to acquire a critical mind, an analytical mind, which enables them to understand the world in which we live and to make a thoughtful use of their professional skills. european universities must enable lifelong learning, contribute to the enrichment of intellectual life and play a central role in today's knowledge-based society in the digital age.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if you will excuse me, i am going to break the fine unanimity that exists in this house. the resolution before us today deals with the problems of relations between universities and industry in the context of the implementation of the famous bologna process. a great deal of work has been done in the two committees which examined this text and many improvements have been made in relation to the original text to take account of the real issues in this dossier. we all seek to understand the aspirations of our youth. we all share the concern to give young people the best tools to enable them to find employment. the rate of youth unemployment is indeed unbearable. but is the university to be seen as a machine which can only meet the needs of business and industry, as the resolution also says in certain paragraphs? we in the gue/ngl group do not believe that. no, the wealth of our universities is also in the training of a growing number of students in a rich and diverse intellectual knowledge, not just in the training of them in vocational skills. that's the real key to lifelong mobility. in many european countries misunderstandings are developing in the academic world. the gue/ngl group believes that we must listen to them. we are asking for a global assessment of the bologna process. we will not vote for this resolution which invites universities to play the game of the needs of business alone and which does not concern itself with the other stakeholders in economic and social life, which is not limited to business alone.
in writing. as this excellent pal schmitt report points out, university-business partnerships are one of the major components of the success of our education model. although much progress has already been made through the bologna process and programmes such as leonardo for in-company placements, there is still work to be done. too many universities still fear for their academic independence, and focus on knowledge at the expense of skills, and too many companies consider the university impervious to the needs of the world of work. but skills and knowledge are closely linked and totally interdependent! the company can be of great help to the university in terms of funding, professionalization of the curricula and adaptation of the programmes, if at the same time the university maintains its autonomy and quality standards. the european union should help to simplify the legal frameworks allowing these partnerships and encourage the mobility of teachers and young entrepreneurs, but it is mainly up to the member states to adapt their legislation, as france did in 2007 with the law on the autonomy of universities. the aim here is not to "market" knowledge, as some have claimed, but to create a genuine dialogue which makes it possible to identify and adapt the needs of each individual.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to begin by expressing my warmest thanks to all my colleagues who have taken part in this work. it's really a collective work. we have made twenty-eight compromises and compromises which have not watered down the strategic vision we wanted to give to this report, to our commitment to the mediterranean, but have on the contrary enriched it. i would therefore like to thank very warmly marietta giannakou for the epp, ivo vajgl for the liberals, hélène flautre and then the rapporteurs for opinions from the committee on international trade, mrs de sarnez, and from the committee on industry, mrs tzavela. the important thing for us is to make it clear that this is a strategic issue for europe. the south needs us, and we need them too, especially in these times of crisis. and if we want to have a long-term vision, if we want sustainable growth, in a world that is organized in a multipolar way, we also need our south. in this respect, europe must commit itself to making the union for the mediterranean an area of peace, security and prosperity for 800 million inhabitants and make this a long-term priority in its work. it is this common will that has brought us together, because we know that the economic challenges, the demographic challenges, the geopolitical challenges that we face, as well as the social and cultural challenges, require that we are able to work with the other side of the mediterranean. it is also a matter of culture and civilization for us. we know that parliament has been working for two years with the knowledge of the difficulties involved in setting up the union for the mediterranean. we did not avoid discussing the conflicts in the south, but we wanted to emphasize very strongly that the union for the mediterranean approach - with concrete projects, parity between the north and the south in decision-making bodies, the possibility of having the israelis and the palestinians sit together, for example - was the right method for contributing to the resolution of these conflicts, and that, moreover, it was not necessary to ask the union for the mediterranean to pursue all the objectives at the same time and that it was necessary to concentrate on these concrete activities. in this project - and i really hope that the second summit of heads of state and government will take place in barcelona on 7 june - we, the european parliament, wanted to send a strong message to the heads of state and government, saying to them: 'commit yourselves, this summit must be a success'. in this connection we have indicated the ways in which we feel it is necessary to do so today. first, a number of obstacles must be removed, among them, of course, financial and economic conditions. the european parliament therefore wants the eu's financial commitment to be up to the challenge, firstly in the financial perspective for 2007-13 if it is to remain, but also in the financial perspective for 2014-2020, with a stronger commitment from the union to complete the six major projects on the table. we need to improve the economic and legal environment. we must ensure that regional south-south integration is better. we also need new political conditions in addition to economic conditions, and that is why we have put so much emphasis on civic integration, on education, cultural projects, human rights and women's rights. mr president, i have concluded. europe, in this crisis, needs to look far and wide. let's not sacrifice the long run for the short run. let's take responsibility for this. europe needs its south.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is my pleasure to address you today on the union for the mediterranean and the report prepared by mr vincent peillon. this valuable contribution by the european parliament is particularly timely as it outlines some of the key challenges facing the union for the mediterranean in the months to come – and, by the way, mr peillon, i fully agree with the introduction to your report on that debate. with the treaty of lisbon now in force, the european union now has an enhanced and more cohesive institutional identity and a mandate to act more effectively on the world stage. at the same time, most mediterranean governments have pursued an ambitious agenda of economic reforms, and the european neighbourhood policy is transforming relations between the european union and its mediterranean neighbours. since 2004 political contacts have increased in profile and intensity. trade has increased at double-digit rates aided by a steady process of liberalisation and regulatory convergence. european union assistance has been tailored to partners’ reform needs and its volume in the current financial framework has increased substantially. this is what we have achieved in our bilateral relations. however, in the mediterranean, even more than elsewhere, our network of bilateral relations between the european union and individual mediterranean neighbour countries needs complementing with south-south integration and cooperation and the creation of a truly regional economic area. regional integration can make as important a contribution as national reforms to boosting investment and growth, reducing the wealth gap between europe and its mediterranean neighbours and, alongside this, ensuring greater convergence around our shared values and in our democratic practices. south-south integration and intra-regional integration projects, such as the agadir free trade agreement, are also key to creating the five million jobs which are needed every year to meet the needs of the region’s young population. the launching of the union for the mediterranean in paris in 2008 gave a new impetus to the euro-mediterranean partnership, made a strong bid for co-ownership and shared responsibility through a copresidency system, put more focus on concrete projects, and provided a technical secretariat to promote regional integration and spur investment. as we all know, its implementation has been slowed down by increased tension in the middle east, but there has been progress with the launching of the proximity talks between israel and the palestinian authority. there is now space for cautious hope that the political circumstances in the region may become more conducive to cooperation. against the background of major global challenges such as the international economic and financial crisis, climate change and energy security, the union for the mediterranean will have to deal with the political situation in the middle east, launch the operational functioning of the union for the mediterranean secretariat and take stock of progress made by the partnership since july 2008. it is an opportunity for a collective reformation of our commitment and political will to create an area of peace, stability and shared prosperity in the mediterranean. to achieve this the partners should also look specifically at the future development of the union and at what it can deliver on the ground in terms of projects, jobs and growth. the mediterranean area is extremely dynamic, and the young generation are asking for more jobs and better opportunities. they are asking for more accountability and a democratic representation, better education and easier mobility to travel and to study. their demands are not always easy to meet, but ultimately they should be the beneficiaries of our collective action. if we put into place practical projects, such as access to water, food and energy sources, and improved civil protection capabilities, it will be in the interest of our peoples. the union for the mediterranean is about placing people, entrepreneurs, non-governmental organisations, universities and, above all, young people at the forefront of civil society, cooperation and economic development. better involvement of the citizens should also be accomplished by means of the full participation and involvement of elected representatives. this is why the commission firmly believes that a vibrant and strong parliamentary dimension reinforces the democratic legitimacy of the partnership. the role of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly should be further consolidated and its work better articulated with the other bodies of the partnership. we all want the union to work, and we all know it will be judged on its ability to deliver concrete projects for the region. the energy interconnections, the motorways of the sea to connect southern mediterranean port facilities with european ones, and the mediterranean solar plan are areas of considerable potential in terms of investment, job creation and enhancing trade relations. if we want to tap that potential we need the private sector and the major financial institutions to work hand in hand. and for this to happen we need one catalyst, and that is the secretariat of the union for the mediterranean. after several months of hard work by the 43 euro-mediterranean partners, we eventually managed to adopt the legal status of the secretariat, to appoint the secretary-general and to approve a provisional budget for the functioning of the secretariat. at the heart of our relations with our mediterranean partner countries is our desire to promote security, growth and stability in the region. but there is also the abiding conviction that we are taking part in an even more ambitious project: building a region of peace and affirming our common goals and values. i am sure that together with the commitment of the european parliament and with the parliaments of the european union member states and of our partners, and with a strong impetus from the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, we will rise to this challenge.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, the barcelona summit is certainly uncertain. the israeli-palestinian conflict is a well-known fact, but it is not the only one. the upm is the only possible answer we have to accelerate the development of the countries of the south, to strengthen the links between them and to improve the dialogue on both sides of the mediterranean. the region needs to increase economic development agreements and cultural exchanges. it needs concrete plans for the future which mobilise the energies and involve the greatest number of states. in this spirit, we must do everything to encourage private and public investment, and the european commission will have to be more open and strengthen its role as an investor. it will also have to take better account of the effects of the liberalisation process when drawing up the next generation of association agreements. finally, the agadir agreement will have to be extended to lead to a better development of south-south trade. the agricultural policy must safeguard the imperatives of food sovereignty and, as we all know, the energy issue is crucial. it is important that projects be carried out first of all in the interests of these countries, in order to meet their needs and thus contribute to their development despite the difficulties and, even more, because of the difficulties. the urgency of reviving the upm is therefore greater than ever.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union for the mediterranean has never been more vital for our future than it is today. we have tried together in the upm report to support a different vision of our mediterranean. it is more than just a free trade area. it is a union based on a common civilisation, supported by people who share the same fundamental values. i would like to speak about the most serious obstacle to our mediterranean ambition, the violence suffered by the palestinian population occupied, expelled and killed by israel, without europe taking up its historic responsibility in this conflict and acting genuinely for peace by recognizing the palestinian state, and this in accordance with the international laws on which our democracies are based. next week an official delegation from parliament will visit the gaza strip to find out why the hundreds of millions of euros of aid that europeans are sending to the palestinians is not reaching the schools and hospitals in gaza where i visited last january. i am shocked and appalled to learn that the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, without informing either its members - including myself - or the co-chairs of this delegation, has decided not to go to gaza with the delegation of our parliament, following the instructions of the israeli embassy. by boycotting the parliamentary delegation to gaza, the chairman of our committee is discrediting the whole of our parliament, which condemned in its resolution on the goldstone report the blocking of contacts with the people of gaza by the israeli army and called for the blockade to be lifted immediately. this resolution and parliament's position should remind us of this. in these circumstances, i call for mr albertini to resign as chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, of which i am a member, because he has not lived up to the requirements of that office. and what good is it to finance and supervise elections and then refuse to recognize those who have chosen the electoral route rather than the armed route? finally, another obstacle to a true union for the fraternal mediterranean is the drowning of victims coming from the southern shore, partly because of the total closure of european borders to them. our current immigration policy is no longer acceptable. we must be able, as the undp recommends, to allow mobility of citizens from the south as well as our own mobility in the south. let's be true to our project and our values. our children will thank us for this and we can be proud as representatives of our peoples.
mr president, in continuity with the barcelona process, the union for the mediterranean is an opportunity for the development of our relations with the countries of the eastern and southern mediterranean basin. as the excellent report by mr peillon points out, we cannot ignore the potential of this region, nor the dangers it presents. but let us be clear-eyed and admit that since the bombing of gaza and the continued colonization of the palestinian territories, the union for the mediterranean has reached an impasse. the political part is blocked. it is not even certain that the summit scheduled for barcelona next june will take place. i wouldn't be surprised if we learned in the next few hours or days that it's been postponed sine die. we must not give up, but the european union must take on more responsibility in the search for a political solution. we cannot leave the united states the monopoly of political management of the crisis in this region, which is ours, by simply contributing to its development. the development and stability of the mediterranean are a condition for our security and growth, and for that the union for the mediterranean remains the best instrument at our disposal.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to make three quick remarks. first, we have not disrespected anyone, especially not people who would be victims, but we have considered that compassion, moral outrage or insulting does not make a policy. secondly, we have not ignored the conflicts that exist, of course, in cyprus, in the sahara and, of course, in the palestinian territories. but let's not get carried away. have we conceived, in the common foreign and security policy or in the various negotiations that are taking place, that it is up to the upm to deal with these questions? everything is not everything, and confusion never keeps efficiency. thirdly, i also regret the absence of the council. it is not a good sign when we learn that this lack of political will is leading us - indeed, dominique baudis was right - to think that the g7 summit is now in question. parliament will have taken its responsibilities. those who built europe built it with a long-term vision, but also with a narrow sense of the importance of concrete policies after the fratricidal wars that had divided us. this is the spirit we have tried to develop with the mediterranean in this report. at a time when europe is going through a major crisis, we must be able to define a growth strategy, as i said earlier. we also need to be careful not to become complacent. when you withdraw into yourself, when you stop having exchanges with the outside, it's that you're dying. that is why i believe that the collective work that has been carried out is important and i hope that the heads of state and government - who have not always lived up to their historic responsibility in recent times - will understand and take this into account.
in writing. the preparation of this report on the union for the mediterranean shows the european parliament's interest and commitment to the dialogue between the two shores of the mediterranean. the inauguration of the upm's headquarters in barcelona and the appointment of its first secretary-general are a major step towards the implementation of the projects to be carried out within the framework of this union. it is clear, however, that the upm is facing some political tensions. the israeli-palestinian conflict has continually blocked the development of the process: interruption of the process after the events in gaza, boycott of a previous summit in istanbul, there are many examples. in this difficult context, we hope that the second upm summit in barcelona on 7 june will give the upm and its tasks new impetus and dynamism. the persistence of regional conflicts makes the task difficult if they are not resolved, but we call on the heads of state and government of the upm member states to take stock of their political and historical responsibilities. the barcelona meeting will be the mark of our commitment to the mediterranean.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, thank you for your statement. i would add that our hungarian friends are in the same situation as our polish friends with regard to flooding. we therefore feel the same way about our hungarian and polish compatriots. (applause) i'm with you on your presentation. in a crisis, democratic forces must come together. it is in this spirit that i proposed to the conference of presidents, before this strasbourg session, that i should postpone this decision until june, saying that i could see some differences, some ambiguities. i did not get a majority in the conference of presidents - we are a democratic parliament here - and so we tried to prepare this resolution. yesterday at noon, when we were discussing in our respective groups, we found that time was running out. i do not mean that the work was sloppy, that would be to disregard the work done by our departments, our vice-presidents and our officials who prepared this work. we thought, in front of all or some of the heads of delegation, that it would probably be better for the image of parliament to have the text withdrawn and vote next time. the crisis, my friends, will not end in june. we discussed it together and agreed that the leaders of the major groups would ask for the vote to be postponed until june. martin schulz told me that he was the only one that i needed to have the majority of the group first, but everyone needs the majority of the group. so we did not discuss amendments in our group last night. we have not discussed today's resolution either, since the group was in favour of postponing it, so that we can find a solution which this parliament considers indispensable to our fellow citizens. meanwhile, a letter arrived from guy verhofstadt. that's why we've decided to ask for a simple three-week delay. in this crisis situation, i ask you to grant us this so that we, as parliament, can present ourselves as a strong body before our fellow citizens and show them that we are responsible women and men.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the report that has just been voted is a very bad blow to the european citizen, whom the epp and the alde want to make pay for the crisis of neoliberalism. (applause) in these circumstances it is impossible for me to associate my name and that of the socialist and democratic group with this text. i therefore ask you to withdraw my signature. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the internal market and the euro are the european union's two real shields in the financial, budgetary, economic and social storm that the 27 are currently experiencing. i voted in favour of this report because it reaffirms the central role of the internal market and gives a very good overview of the current issues (budgetary coordination, development of education and research, support for smes, strengthening and accessibility of solvit and the enterprise europe network). it is therefore a reflection and a roadmap that is very much complementary to that of professor monti, who recently presented his report entitled 'a new strategy for the single market' to the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso.
in writing. i admire the rapporteur for being able to write without laughing, with the utmost seriousness, that the single market and the euro have been europe's protective shield in the serious crisis we have been experiencing for the last two years. nothing has protected us, and especially not brussels europe. on the contrary, it has created all the conditions for us to be hit hard: free movement of capital worldwide, dismantling of public services and social protection systems, the precariousness of workers, monetary policy in the hands of a central bank indifferent to the economic needs of the states - these are the consequences of the establishment of the single market, which has been continuously completed - without a bad play on words - since 1992. it has also been an element of inertia, an element which was superfluous to take into account when the states took matters into their own hands. as for the euro, well, i think we should ask all the countries that suffer from speculation what they think about its protective character. today, it is a crisis factor in itself.
in writing. i voted in favour of the grech report entitled 'giving consumers and citizens a single market'. in this text we have found the right balance between the objectives of an open economy, capable of stimulating growth and job creation and of responding in an integrated way to the major challenges of tomorrow (in terms of competitiveness, research and development, industrial policy, demographic and environmental challenges) and those of an economic system capable of fulfilling the mission of protecting the consumer and of offering the social and environmental safeguards that citizens need. it is essential not to forget the citizen-consumer in the recovery strategy! europe must therefore adopt a comprehensive approach, fully integrating citizens' concerns and other horizontal policy areas, in particular health, social and consumer protection, labour law, the environment, sustainable development and external policies. finally, the text calls on the commission to present, by may 2011, a legislative proposal guaranteeing the implementation, at european level, of an affordable, practical and accessible system of collective redress, which i wish to see.
in writing. i voted for the report on university-enterprise dialogue because i believe it is essential that the link between training and the labour market be improved. it is not a question of orienting students to the wishes of the private sector but of enabling young people to be aware of the implications of working life. there is a need for stronger links between universities and enterprises to make it easier for students to access employment and for enterprises to accept atypical pathways.
in writing. the european union protects its citizens! beyond european regulations against dangerous products seeking access to the internal market, beyond joint measures against terrorism, beyond joint initiatives to ensure the pacification of the continent, the european union is participating in the dismantling of nuclear power stations built in the soviet era and which can endanger our health at any time. twenty-four years after the terrible chernobyl accident, i am happy to have contributed to the security of our continent by voting in favour of this report. it was essential to continue the measures taken in bulgaria under the 'kozloduy programme' for the period 2010-2013.
in writing. any incentive to dismantle a nuclear power station and to set up research on renewable energy and the treatment of nuclear waste is to be welcomed. this is in line with the gradual phase-out of nuclear energy which we are advocating. however, i would like to stress my perplexity at the insistence on the 'final disposal' of nuclear waste. this technique cannot be a long-term solution, given the risks it poses to our ecosystem. i am also concerned about the lack of guarantees regarding the allocation of the financial support from the european union to help with this dismantling. what assurance do we have that this 300 million euro will not be used in part to finance the new belene nuclear power station in bulgaria? has not commissioner oettinger himself committed himself to financing this project? i am voting for this report because i want to see the kozloduy reactors finally dismantled.
in writing. the structural funds set up in our regions must be more easily linked with the european funds dedicated to research and innovation. the van nistelrooij report makes useful recommendations for the better use of all these appropriations. there are undeniable possibilities for financing and growth in our territories. similarly, greater synergy between the different financial instruments can only be beneficial at a time when we need to boost economic activity. finally, these funds are well placed to contribute to the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy. i was aware of the quality of the report and voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution as adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament. the long-term sustainability of our public finances is a crucial issue for the credibility of european economic and fiscal policies. the greek crisis has shown this. the public authorities must be responsible to the markets and to the rating agencies. it is also a necessity imposed by the demographic reality of today and the years ahead. i therefore firmly reject the positions advocated by the rapporteur, mr liem hoang ngoc, calling for a continuation of the public deficit policy. we must now accept that the public finances of many member states are not sustainable and have the courage to remedy this. our boat is taking on water. if it's not sinking yet, it's time to start digging!
in writing. in the vote on thursday 20 may on the report by socialist mep liem hoang ngoc on the long-term sustainability of public finances, the ump and modem groups in the european parliament voted enthusiastically for a text which the epp and alde groups had amended line by line to turn it into a neoliberal manifesto. i voted against this text, which is an insult to the citizens of europe. the ump and modem are waving the specter of unsustainable deficits to justify an unprecedented austerity cure across europe, starting in 2011. they propose to transform the stability pact into a social regression pact. in this text, the right goes so far as to reject the creation of a public european credit rating agency, while private agencies are beating the drums of speculative attacks against the eurozone states. but it forgets that the rise in deficits is primarily the result of the crisis, the bank bailouts and the failure of neoliberal policies. and to think that the right wing is presenting the bill to the citizens today!
in writing. i agree with the report: the level of government deficits and debt is difficult for future generations to bear, but also in a very present way. but i don't approve of the solutions proposed. i do not think that a report which fails to mention the reason for the recent explosion in these debts and deficits is serious. on the contrary, it is because the private debts of the banks and the financial sector have been taken over by the states, and thus by the european citizens and taxpayers, that these deficits have increased so much. we must be aware that the union and the eurogroup are acting today only to please the markets which you always consider rational and efficient, but which panic when deficits are too large, and panic again because they fear that the measures taken to reduce them will hinder a semblance of economic recovery. and they have been feasting on the risk of the greek debt, which you have just made disappear with the latest measures. they won on all boards, for their greatest profit! so much for the consequences for the real economy and the people.
in writing. i was forced to vote against the report by my colleague liem hoang n'goc, which the european right and liberals and the centre have completely emptied of its substance by advocating only dogmatic respect for the stability pact and therefore policies of austerity. fiscal policy is not an end in itself but a means to achieve political objectives. the priority must not be austerity, which would kill off the little growth available; it is rather a logic of job growth that we must defend. to do this, the eu must be given the means to act, which means that it must have other economic management tools than those currently available under the stability pact, which are insufficient.
in writing. this text shows the will to create a redistribution system that benefits society as a whole. the commission's positive proposals concern migration policies. he rejected the "blind cuts" made in the name of the crisis in public investment. but after that, a reverse logic is formulated in concrete proposals. raising the retirement age, enshrining a security and growth pact as a solution to the crisis, even though it is one of the obvious causes, congratulating the ecb on the bank bailout, promoting a sustainable and competitive social market economy - all these are neoliberal dogmas repeated throughout the text. the crisis will do nothing: this europe is blinded by its dogmatism and deaf to the demands of its citizens. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the report on the contribution of cohesion policy to the achievement of the lisbon and europe 2020 objectives is fundamental in that it shows how decisive cohesion policy can be for the future of the union. the structural funds, which guarantee the cohesion of european territories and finance innovation, help to bring about initiatives that are undoubtedly growth-promoting for the regions. i sincerely believe that cohesion policy will be an essential instrument for achieving the europe 2020 objectives, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the structural funds play a key role in the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy as they are a powerful instrument for economic development for all regions of europe. the report by ricardo cortés lastra rightly points out that the lisbon strategy could only achieve concrete results if it was linked to cohesion policy. i therefore support the rapporteur's recommendations on the necessary improvement of the eu 2020 governance system compared to the lisbon strategy. it is essential to involve local and regional authorities and civil society actors more closely in multi-level governance. i also agree with the rapporteur that a simplified approach to the use of the structural funds is important in the future regulatory framework. simplicity is indeed one of the keys to efficiency.
in writing. the union for the mediterranean (ufm) is a formidable project which requires strong political involvement from the european parliament. i voted in favour of this report because it contains the following three ideas which are very important: 1) the new institutional architecture must become effective quickly in order to make the ufm operational, 2) adequate funding is essential to enable the ufm to achieve its objectives and thus to realise its 6 major strategic projects (de-pollution of the mediterranean, transport, renewable energies, education, smes, civil protection) 3) the success of the ufm is conditional on the resolution of regional conflicts in the mediterranean basin.
in writing. i supported the report drawn up by my french socialist colleague vincent peillon, because the union for the mediterranean (ufm) aims to promote the euro-mediterranean cooperation process through concrete and strategic measures, both for europe as a whole and for the mediterranean area. regional integration is necessary to promote peace, which is one of the major challenges of this cooperation; it was therefore necessary to strengthen it. i think the ufm is an excellent instrument for intervening with the greatest firmness in the conflicts that persist in this area, and even for bringing solutions to them. i hope that the next barcelona summit will be a success, that the member states will really relaunch the ufm, and that, following the establishment of the secretariat in barcelona, a whole series of projects will be able to take shape, in the interests of all.
in writing. the report does indeed have the merit of stressing the urgency of recognizing two states, one palestinian and the other israeli, living in peace and security, and of fighting for women's rights and against discrimination based on sexual orientation. but his merit stops there. this text is above all a guarantee to current and potential private investors in the region, as evidenced by the numerous injunctions on the necessary protection and financial guarantee of investments. the text also endorses the barcelona process and the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area, which is totally contrary to the regulatory objectives imposed by the context. i am voting against this text. i believe that the interests of the peoples of europe and the mediterranean must always take precedence over those of the financiers. it is the role of elected officials to work for the common good. it is regrettable that the authors of this text did not make it a priority.
in writing. the heads of state or government of the two sides of the mediterranean will meet in barcelona on 7 june. it is essential that this meeting should lead to concrete progress - i am thinking in particular of the launching of the institutions of the union for the mediterranean, but also of the progress to be made in economic and trade terms, in employment, poverty reduction, agricultural issues, food security, water and rural development. it is also essential that more substantial resources be devoted to the union for the mediterranean, which will be the main issue in the next financial negotiations for the period 2014-2020. in this respect, it should be recalled that european aid must be able to be combined with private funds and coordinated with the means offered by the european investment bank and investment funds such as inframed. in addition, the strengthening of south-south trade and the establishment of a euro-mediterranean free trade area are essential for economic development and poverty reduction in the southern shore countries. these guidelines are clearly set out in the resolution before parliament, and i have given it my support.
author. - madam president, freedom of religion is not guaranteed in pakistan. in 2009, there was an increase in violent attacks against religious minorities, including murders. in addition, nearly 80% of the minority population lives below the poverty line. however, this is not the only problem of human rights violations in pakistan: restrictions on freedom of assembly, threats against civil society organizations, arrests of trade unionists, kidnappings, murders of journalists. since pakistan declared its support for the us-led war on terror, hundreds, if not thousands, of people suspected of links to terrorist groups have been arbitrarily detained: arrests without warrants, detentions without any legal basis, without a lawyer, unreported places of detention, enforced disappearances, ill-treatment, torture. in lahore prison alone, 4,651 prisoners were held in 2009 for a capacity of 1,050. violence against women is on the rise: rapes, suicides, acid attacks, women burned. it would take me not two minutes, not two hours, but two whole days to describe the ordeal endured by pakistani girls and women. it is in this context that our parliament, concerned about respect for women, freedom of conscience and human rights, is about to use its new veto power over the conclusion of a readmission agreement between the european union and pakistan, thus demanding greater guarantees on the conditions under which such an agreement would be implemented for the readmission of pakistani nationals and afghans who have transited through pakistan.
author. - madam president, for several weeks now the popular red shirt movement has been demonstrating in bangkok to demand respect for democracy. it should be recalled that the current government, although the president has only been in power since december 2008, is nevertheless the result of a military coup that dates back to september 2006. what did the red shirts ask for? the prime minister's resignation, the dissolution of parliament, early elections, in short, democracy. on 4 may, the prime minister announced a plan to reconcile with the famous early elections, but the assassination on 13 may of general khattiya, the military leader of the red shirts, put an end to the negotiations. it is in this context that we have prepared the resolution which is before us today. yesterday, the military intervened, killing several people, including an italian journalist. it is essential for us that the solutions we are going to vote on take account of these events, especially since immediately the main leaders of the red shirts went and called for calm. actually, it is the question of the king's succession that is at issue. this one's oddly quiet. the message we need to send is that democracy is never imposed by force, that it is not acceptable to suppress protests by sending the army with orders to shoot on sight. the resolution does not even condemn violence. we will not vote for it. thai people have a right to democracy and everything must be done to avoid another military coup.
in writing. thailand is going through a very difficult time in its history. the "land of smiles" has become the land of tears, of blood, and perhaps tomorrow of civil war between government forces and the so-called red shirts. how did it come to this point where a demonstration calling for democratic elections resulted in dozens of deaths and thousands of injuries, the political assassination of an opposition leader, urban guerrilla scenes, the beginning of insurgencies in several provinces and the imposition of a state of emergency and curfews? the king, a respected figure in the country, seems unable to ease the tensions. the uncertainty surrounding his succession suggests that this situation of instability will continue. the violence must stop. the current government is the result of elections, but elections that followed a coup d'état and the dissolution of the opposition parties! this injustice must end. the only solution is the rapid holding of general elections and the restoration of political freedoms for all parties concerned to guarantee their democratic character. the european union must use its good economic and political relations with thailand to bring about this solution.
author. - madam president, this is the second time this year that we have discussed the situation in burma. the fears we expressed on 10 march about the so-called electoral process initiated by the burmese junta have only been confirmed. the conditions imposed by the electoral law have led the national league for democracy to refuse to take part in the process. it must be said that these electoral laws prohibited prisoners from running and thus excluded, in effect, hundreds of political prisoners. since then, the nld has been banned. we welcome the tone of this resolution calling for increased economic sanctions. we too regret the decline in humanitarian aid to refugees. i would have liked to see us go further and, like president obama and the united states, the european union ban all investment in euro in burma. but some major european economic groups have powerful interests there. i welcome the call for an international arms embargo and i hope very much that the european union can play a genuinely active part in creating a global consensus on this matter. i would like to know, commissioner, what your position is on this matter, either today or at a later date.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2011 budgetary procedure was a foggy one, and since the adoption of the draft budget by the college, the fog has become even thicker. how can we adopt a 2011 budget without knowing how the new responsibilities conferred on the union by the lisbon treaty will be taken into account? since last february, the committee on budgets has asked the executive committee to present the draft revision of the financial perspective which we need. if there is no answer, we shall discuss the oral question we have tabled on this subject the day after tomorrow. first cloud of uncertainty. the second cloud is the new financial crisis, the public debt crisis. on 9 may the european council agreed on a financial stabilisation plan worth 750 billion. this plan includes 60 billion which the european union can borrow and lend with the guarantee given by the community budget. this is a radically new possibility, which represents half the union's budget, but parliament is not involved. next thursday will probably see the emergence of a new cloud, the agenda 2020 that the european council is expected to adopt. it contains half a dozen key action priorities. without funding, this strategy has no credibility. it is presented as the union's road map for the next ten years. in this sea of uncertainty, the committee on budgets, united behind its rapporteur, insists that the council make political choices. should we spend more or should we spend less? and if we want to spend better, it is time to organise an exercise that has never been done before, to divide the roles between the european budget and the national budgets, and to do this, to introduce parliaments into the new way of governing the union. all our states are bankrupt and the union itself is financed by them. now is the time for imagination and audacity.
mr president, our colleagues stéphane le foll and patrice tirolien tabled an amendment in committee and then in plenary on the draft budget for 2011. our group fully endorses this. that's why he deposed him, too. i ask all members to vote in favour of this amendment to paragraph 40 which calls for an increase, not a reduction, in the posei appropriations, particularly in view of the consequences of the agreements signed at the wto between the european union, colombia and peru, and the consequences of these agreements for the traditional crops of the outermost regions of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that we are still two thirds of the way from achieving the original mdg targets. even in times of crisis, the least we can do is to demand that all developed countries, including the european union, honour their commitments, particularly to the poor countries by giving them 0.7% of their gnp for development aid. moreover, in the framework of the economic partnership agreements between the european union and the acp, which i follow closely as a member of the acp, too much of the appropriations are devoted to trade at the expense of programmes to achieve the millennium development goals. i believe that a rebalancing is necessary for the benefit of these mdgs in the framework of these agreements.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done. the text has evolved between the two readings and we think it is moving in the right direction. i have been able to see, for a year now that we have been discussing this matter, the incomprehension of our public opinion, at least my own, when they discover the present degree of non-coordination between rail transport companies. how can we call for greater environmental ambition in this house on a regular basis? to regret that copenhagen was not a complete success when we are not able to have a real transfer of freight transport to rail, pure rail or multimodal, here on the european continent? in the few sections where multimodal transport has developed, it took a while for road hauliers to adapt, but they were able to find complementarity and show the effectiveness of this system. we cannot today have a debate without a follow-up, we have an obligation to act, and to act in the short term. so it is true that beyond this text there may be, here and there, problems of infrastructure. i would like to draw your attention, in particular, to the question of cross-border sections. they are often the private affairs of individuals, but they are the necessary link for the successful realisation of our european project. i also hear, here and there, fears, particularly from the social partners, of a loss of power. but i'm sure the success of this project is the win-win bet of working more, and working more together. that, it seems to me, is a matter on which europe can show a concrete face to our fellow citizens. we need it badly.
madam president, my point of order is based on the code of conduct that this parliament has adopted in terms of codecision negotiations. and i do not understand how the commissioner can talk about an agreement with parliament when he has only spoken to one member who had no mandate from the committee which is basically responsible for negotiating what you call a good agreement. commissioner, you are violating the rules of this institution. this gives us the right to ask questions about the functioning of the institution to which you belong.
madam president, since this is not customary, i shall speak of procedure. of course, everyone agrees that we should be favourable to smes and everyone should normally be concerned about safety, workers, those on the road and the conditions for free and undistorted competition. but when parliament rejected this text last spring, in the summer of 2009, your predecessor, commissioner tajani, while campaigning for his reappointment as commissioner in his government, told us that he had new proposals to make. these new proposals were never examined by the parliamentary committee seised of the substance of the case. and this committee has rejected, by a larger majority than the previous report, mrs bauer's report. mrs bauer had no mandate to negotiate a first reading agreement with the council on behalf of this parliament. the commission and the council have knowingly violated the rules of interinstitutional cooperation. mrs. bauer violated the code of conduct of this institution. this parliament sometimes wonders what a first reading agreement is that undermines our negotiating capacity. well, if mrs bauer's amendments are adopted, there would be a first reading agreement without any examination by the bodies of this parliament. at a time when the lisbon treaty is leading to a rebalancing of the institutions, this parliament is giving up its capacity for collective intelligence. i would ask, at the very least, that mrs bauer's proposals, which have never been considered in committee, be referred back to committee for consideration.
in writing. the directive we are debating today is the result of a very long negotiation in the european parliament over two terms. this is a very sensitive issue because it affects our jobs today and tomorrow. this is a matter of road safety and fair competition between undertakings in the member states. i would not accept social dumping within our union. could a self-employed person work 14 hours a day, 84 hours a week, and not be a hazard on the road? the competition also becomes unfair in relation to a company. this also leads some to propose to their employees to declare themselves as self-employed. we need to protect our citizens and our businesses. i therefore call on the european commission to withdraw its proposal and, failing that, i call on the members of the european parliament to vote in favour of keeping the selfemployed in the working time legislation during the votes in plenary tomorrow.
mr president, my speech will focus on the question of colour codes. we're told, "this is complicated". that's not true. it simplifies. we are told, "it is forbidden". there is no ban, it is actually information. we are told that this is the infantilization of consumers, but then we should be told, mr president, why exactly the consumer associations are calling for these colour codes. we must be clear and free from hypocrisy and false appearances. we have to choose between defending public health and consumers or satisfying the demands of the lobbies, which are, moreover, very short-term demands because their interest is only very short-term in the absence of labelling. it's a choice that has to be clear as far as i'm concerned, as far as we're concerned. it is quite clear that we are in favour of this consumer information, which is also being demanded by the social security bodies and the health sector in europe, precisely because it is a means of combating obesity and a number of diseases. so let us not give up! let's know why we're here, why we were chosen. it's for the defense of our fellow citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress two particular points. firstly, as regards the nutritional profiles: i am opposed to their being removed because i would point out that they are established for the sole purpose of determining whether or not a food can bear a health claim. the aim is to avoid misleading consumers by health claims sometimes placed on foods that often have a high fat, salt or sugar content. i therefore suggest that you reject the amendment to delete the nutritional profiles, which we approved in 2006. i would also like to draw your attention to the risks of amendment no 205 which aims to label meat from ritual slaughter. this could lead to stigmatisation of certain religious groups as such labelling would introduce unfounded distrust among some consumers. i would remind you that some of the meat that is perfectly fit for consumption is put on the ordinary market because it cannot be eaten by believers because of religious criteria, especially since this meat comes from slaughterhouses that are certified, that meet the sanitary criteria perfectly. there would therefore be significant economic consequences, the survival of a number of ritual slaughterhouses in europe would be threatened, and this would cause difficulties for small farmers in the vicinity. i think that what is needed is a lot of common sense in labelling to inform the consumer, but, above all, colour codes will, in my view, stigmatise products here too. i don't think that's the right solution yet.
mr president, commissioner, this is a very important issue in consumer protection. a recent survey shows that the food safety situation has deteriorated for europeans over the past decade, and one in three consumers remains suspicious of the quality of products. updating, simplifying and clarifying food labelling in the european union is therefore a requirement for better consumer protection. let me make two points. as regards the colour code, we are in favour of this colour code if it is accompanied by a reference to the nutritional values expressed as a percentage. i am also opposed to a mandatory nutrition declaration for wines and spirits. we want a specific regulation on wines and spirits to be drawn up within the next three years instead of the five years proposed by the european commission. that is what i wanted to say, mr president, commissioner.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the current crisis in the euro area is not, of course, due to the failures of the common statistical system. however, these have had serious consequences. there are economic consequences, and this has been said many times, but there are also consequences in terms of the credibility of the european union. we are touching on one of the major problems, in my view, of the way the union is functioning today. governments make promises to their people, and rightly so, saying that we will be very strict in checking mutual commitments, that the criteria will be examined after the comma in the original version, that gives drei komma null , but these same governments have for years refused to give eurostat the means to do its job, all to the detriment of the general interest, because what weakens the commission is not good for anyone. we therefore fully support this resolution which calls for the commission and eurostat to have investigative powers and for common standards to be strengthened. without this effort of rigor in exploitation and data collection, the promises of rigor will not be kept. the citizens will be increasingly disoriented and the european union will lose face.
mr president, i note that, unlike president buzek, you are less affected by lateral strabismus, and you were able to spot me. mr president, i have a very brief point of order. mr martin's report is intended to solve the problems of adapting the lisbon treaty, but among the texts we have to vote on there is one which has nothing to do with the lisbon treaty and which seems to me to be contrary to the general principles of parliamentary law, namely that which deprives non-attached members of the possibility of appointing their own representatives. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that whatever your political views, there is something very serious about this. i believe that it is contrary to the general principles of law and the case law of the european court of justice to leave it to the president of parliament, however impartial he may be, to appoint - on what criteria, my god! - instead of the non-attached members themselves, the person who will represent them in the conference of presidents. that is why i think, mr president, that this amendment should be taken off the list of those on which we are voting today.
mr president, i have heard and listened very carefully to what you have said. you said that 168 was the threshold for a qualified majority. that's what i heard, or at least that's what was translated. i find this quite incredible because if it were the case, we would be taking half the number of people who voted for as the threshold for the election. so, in all cases, the qualified majority is obtained. it's obvious. this is the first time in this parliament that i have heard that 168 votes is the qualified majority. i may have misunderstood what you said, but the whole procedure seems to me to be absurd, perhaps appropriate for an election in which there are several candidates, but certainly not for the renewal of a vice-president.
mr president, the genius of this parliament is particularly evident in the reforms of the rules of procedure which are always designed to undermine the rights of the minority, the underdogs, the untermenschen, which we are in a way. the rule that under rule 24 of the rules of procedure non-attached members should appoint their representatives has just been happily trampled underfoot for a year. you, mr president, in a remark which is - excuse me - one of the most stupid remarks i have ever heard in my parliamentary life, have declared that this was not possible because you did not share my political views. that's right, i'm a conviction non-subscriber. you were only a traitor to your friends. but there is at least one thing, mr president, that could have settled this dispute, and that is the election. elections are the normal rule in a democracy. well, no, i won't. now the representatives of the non-enrolled will be appointed by the speaker of parliament. this is just another one of those jokes. it is true that mr martin planned this, that he concocted it, with the representatives of the two major groups. i am reminded of the previous amendments to the rules of procedure, initiated by mr corbett, which have now been dropped and which were fortunately defeated in the european elections thanks to my friend nick griffin.
in writing. pal schmitt, vice-president of the european parliament, having recently been chosen to preside over the newly elected hungarian parliament, my colleagues and i had to elect a new vice-president. lászló tőkés, hungarian mep for the epp, fulfilling all the criteria necessary for the exercise of such a function (integrity, commitment, support for the construction of europe), i voted in favour of his candidacy.
in writing. in political solidarity with my friends in the epp and spain, i voted for the report by my italian colleague barbara matera (epp, it) on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for around €6.6 million to help spain, which is facing redundancies in the non-metallic mineral products sector. without fundamentally calling into question the european commission's analysis based on the kingdom of spain's assertions, i find it curious to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund on what is only a consequence of the collapse of the spanish housing bubble. in fact, it is the fall in mortgage loans that justifies the decline in the number of building permits and, therefore, the consumption of tiles and ceramics, and thus non-metallic mineral products. but where are we going with this kind of reasoning? can we seriously say that this is an adjustment to globalisation? i also find the administrative costs of more than 400 000 euros disproportionate, even though a study of 60 000 euros, the cost of which seems prohibitive, seems to be the source of the large amount to be followed ...
in writing. thinking of the spanish workers in the valencian community who have been martyred by globalisation, i abstain. in the situation where they are being plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies imposed by the european union, one might feel entitled to vote against the paltry alms that the european elites are willing to give them. but the little that is given can ease their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. it supports the ongoing relocations to morocco and algeria and devotes the profits of the richest. for the eurocratic oligarchy, a good conscience is cheap.
in solidarity with the epp and ireland and on the basis of the report by my excellent italian colleague barbara matera on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the tune of approximately eur 2.7 million to help ireland with redundancies in the glass sector. the bulk of the 600 redundancies were at waterford crystal. without questioning the european commission's analysis, i find it curious that this company, which has been in difficulty since 2005, could be the origin of the adjustment to globalisation. in 2005 it announced the closure of its dungarvan factory in order to consolidate all operations into the main factory in kilbarry, waterford city, where 1,000 people were employed by the company. the move resulted in the disappearance of nearly 500 workers in dungarvan. after the closure of the factory on january 30, 2009, former employees and their families organized protests that ended in march 2009 after the workers agreed and paid 10 million euros (source wikipedia). is this adjustment to globalization?
in writing. it is with the irish workers of waterford crystal in mind, who have been sacrificed and abandoned to globalization, that i abstain. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one could vote against the paltry alms given to them by the european elites. but the little that is given can ease their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. it endorses the current banking speculation and dedicates the profits that us funds, such as kps capital partners, make on the backs of european workers. in the realm of the eurocrats, a good conscience is cheap.
in writing. in solidarity with the epp and spain and on the basis of the report by my italian colleague barbara matera, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the tune of around eur 2 million to help spain, which is facing redundancies in the construction of wooden articles. the kingdom of spain justifies the request on the basis that the financial and economic crisis has led to a sudden collapse of the world economy which has had a strong impact on many sectors, in particular on the demand in the construction sector and, therefore, wood-based products. the truth is that the crisis has burst the spanish housing bubble and it is not clear where the justification for adjustment to globalisation lies ... when you see what is being funded (for example 57 entrepreneurship support for €3000 each, or €171,000; 16 training courses at €12,500 each, or €200,000, etc.), where is the adjustment to globalisation? follow ...
in writing. i am abstaining out of consideration for the spanish workers of castile-la mancha who have been brutalized by globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might feel entitled to vote against the paltry alms that the european elites are willing to give them. but the little that is given can ease their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. it endorses real estate speculation and bankruptcy and dedicates the profits that their interest gives to the banks. under the tyranny of the eurocrats, good conscience is easy.
in writing. in solidarity with the epp and on the basis of the report by my italian colleague barbara matera, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the tune of eur 1.1 million to finance the technical assistance activities inherent in the egf. article 8 (1) of the 2006 egf regulation provides that 0.35% of the total amount of the fund available, i.e. eur 500 million, remains available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. this is equivalent to 1 750 000 euros. no amount has yet been allocated for technical assistance. frankly, two meetings of 27 experts (1 per member state) at €35,000 each, or €70,000, and two seminars on the egf at €100,000 each, all this seems pointless, especially if it is to make the egf pay, not for adjustment to globalisation, but for current expenditure. and what about the 10 studies at 25 000 euros per study ! i 'm not ... but it really feels like these technical assistance activities are done to spend money because the legal basis exists.
in writing. the original version of this own-initiative report by michail tremopoulos was not at all suitable for me! i therefore tabled a dozen amendments to reorient it. so, with my colleagues from the epp, we have succeeded in reintroducing french and german as languages of communication alongside english, in limiting the information requested to that which is really useful, in preserving a presumption of the correct use of european funds, and so on. the use of funds must indeed be more transparent, but this must not be an excuse for making the procedures for applying for european funding excessively burdensome. our action will make more information available to european citizens about the use of european funds, but it will not make the bureaucracy stronger! i therefore voted for the amended version of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my greek colleague, mr michail tremopoulos, on the transparency of regional policy and its financing. i welcome the european transparency initiative (eiti) adopted by the european commission to improve the transparency, openness and accountability of the governance of the european union. i support the need to develop regulations and implementing procedures which make procedures transparent, provide potential beneficiaries with better access to the structural funds and reduce the administrative burden on participants. the managing authorities of the member states must present in a transparent manner all the stages of projects financed by the structural funds. i hope that members of the european parliament will be informed and involved in the implementation of projects on the ground in their constituencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr tremopoulos, whose text contains provisions to improve the efficiency and transparency of european regional policy. in order to offer potential beneficiaries of the european structural funds better access to available funding, it seems to me necessary to reduce the administrative burden associated with funding applications and to increase the transparency of the procedures for accessing community funding. it is by making the rules and their application clearer and simpler that we will make these european funds more efficient. i also think it is essential to inform citizens better about the concrete achievements of the european union, particularly those linked to the use of the structural funds. i therefore support the european commission's publication of more information to the public on the major projects, whether completed or in progress, which have been made possible by the use of these funds.
in writing. i supported and voted for the tremopoulus report which calls on the european commission and the national managing authorities to increase transparency in the allocation and use of the structural funds. it is important to obtain comparable data on the management of these funds at european level so that project promoters and citizens can know what are the european priorities in terms of funding, which actors have already benefited from these funds, how these funds have been used, what are the procedures and deadlines for the different projects. the aim is to ensure that the funds are more visible to potential beneficiaries and that their use is better controlled. however, there was no need to fall into the trap of 'excess' transparency and to overburden the managing authorities and project promoters with irrelevant, ineffective and punitive information constraints. so, with my colleagues from the majority of the chairmen of the regi committee, we have amended the original text to ensure that the logic of transparency is not at the expense of the logic of simplification of cohesion policy. the two main challenges for this policy are its simplicity and its visibility.
in writing. the european construction was conceived by the fathers of europe to ensure peace on the european continent. as tensions persist in northern ireland, it is essential that today's europe continues to provide financial support for reconciliation between the two communities which have so far been at war with each other. the european union must continue to finance concrete projects to build the links which are essential for the establishment of a lasting peace. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i therefore voted in favour of this new regulation.
in writing. the international fund for ireland is a good example of transnational and international cooperation. the fund, managed by an independent international body, is financed by several countries: the european union, the united states, canada, new zealand and australia. in both northern ireland and the republic of ireland, projects are thus encouraging contacts, dialogue and reconciliation between nationalists and unionists. however, this international support will end in 2010. it is therefore appropriate to consider how the fund's priorities for action, in particular the promotion of economic and social progress and the encouragement of dialogue for peace, can be financed after that date. the projects covered by the international fund for ireland already complement the action of the european union's peace programmes. it would be appropriate to clarify their future in the context of the next european budgetary perspective. i therefore call on the european commission to examine how the structural funds could take over from the international fund for ireland, particularly in the context of the european territorial cooperation objective.
in writing. this was a second reading vote on the regulation for a competitive european rail freight network. i voted in favour of the compromises reached between parliament and the council of the eu. these compromises should help to promote conditions for better governance for the allocation of access capacity and for the management of the major intra-european rail freight corridors. once adopted, this regulation should make the main freight railway traffic on european corridors more efficient and thus contribute to reducing pollutant emissions from transport. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the text negotiated with the council in order to obtain an agreement at second reading.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading contained in the report by my romanian friend marian-jean marinescu on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european rail network for competitive freight. i support the proposed amendments on the organisation of international rail corridors with a view to creating a european rail network for competitive freight. i also support the idea of the 'single window' that has been introduced, namely the joint procedure set up by the management committee of each freight corridor giving applicants the possibility to apply for a single lane for a route crossing at least one border at one place and in one operation.
in writing. the draft regulation defines rail freight corridors, i.e. routes crossing several member states on which managers coordinate for the management and operation of the infrastructure. this is a real european added value, as this regulation will improve transparency in the allocation and management of slots and promote transnational coordination at all levels: available capacity, investment, infrastructure works, operational management, etc. the creation of a single window per corridor will also enable companies to have a single point of contact, a symbol of railway corridor management with a european perspective. this regulation thus sends a strong signal in favour of a genuine european transport and infrastructure policy. it is a key step towards making rail freight faster and more reliable and thus a credible and environmentally friendly alternative to long-distance road transport. a truly european approach was all the more necessary since the rail freight market is relevant at this scale.
in writing. i voted enthusiastically for the adoption of this text. it represents a major advance for freight and transport in europe. the latter will now be more competitive and less expensive. europe is moving towards greater interconnection between european rail networks, freight corridors and sea and river ports. this is an important step towards the sustainable development of the rail transport sector in europe, which will finally be able to offer a real alternative to air and road transport. international corridors linking member states will now be managed by crossborder authorities who will coordinate infrastructure management and lane allocation. the whole thing will be capped by a one-stop shop per railway corridor, which i strongly advocated for. this new development is a step forward for europe and a sign of its desire for better cooperation and greater integration in the transport sector. i welcome the adoption of this report, which strengthens the foundations of the great european rail transport network which i have been calling for for many years.
in writing. this report confirms a europe that is the opposite of the europe of solidarity and cooperation that our times call for more than ever. the development of the territory must be based on the general interest of the european peoples and not on the individual interests of private enterprises. the privatisation of transport policies serves the interests of my fellow citizens in the interests of the market eurocracy. i am voting against this harmful text.
in writing. i voted for the decision on the adaptation of parliament's rules of procedure following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the amendments adopted by the plenary enter into force on 1 december 20010. it became necessary to introduce the amendments to the rules of procedure in order to take account of the arrival of 18 new members, the increase in legislative powers and the new budgetary procedure which places the parliament on an equal footing with the council. other changes concern respect for the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the principle of subsidiarity, in view of the growing influence of national parliaments; the right of parliament to propose amendments to the treaties; the procedure for appointing the president of the commission, since parliament has more powers in this area; the possibility of withdrawing a state from the union and, finally, the violation of fundamental principles by a member state. i regret that the new rules of procedure have not been examined by a higher legal authority to validate their conformity with those of a higher order, in particular the treaties and the constitutions of the member states.
in writing. the european commission's draft budget for 2011 does not meet the challenges facing europe. with €142 billion in commitment appropriations, or 1.15% of european gni, the commission is proposing to finance new priorities, in addition to the programmes already included in the 2007-13 financial framework, by using existing programmes and a budgetary margin that is woefully reduced! the 2020 agenda for growth and jobs, which is supposed to be the eu's roadmap for the next 10 years, and the fight against climate change cannot really exist without funding. it is not acceptable to finance the future instrument of cooperation with the industrialized countries by drawing on development aid. it is not realistic to reduce by a third the european financial aid to the middle east peace process. this is not serious. we expected the commission to be more bold. the european parliament is still waiting for a draft revision of the mid-term financial perspective, which europe so badly needs. this issue should be the focus of the next budgetary negotiations with the council. the democratic movement delegation in parliament will fight for this.
in writing. in this resolution, the european parliament calls for stricter supervision of the derivatives market. i supported it because i think it is essential that parliament sends a clear message to the council and the commission that legislative action should be taken in this area. the aim is to prevent excessive speculation by means of a standardised procedure and supervisory bodies and the use of a common register of transactions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my excellent german colleague, mr werner langen, on derivatives markets, in response to the european commission's communication on the same subject. i support the commission's initiative to improve the regulation of derivatives. it is imperative that the future european securities and markets authority (esma) be given a leading role in the authorisation of clearing houses in the european union, entrusting the same authority with their supervision.
in writing. the rapid development of the internet is leading to an increase in the number of interconnected objects, i.e. those available and exchangeable on the internet. from books to cars, from electrical appliances to power supplies, the 'internet of things' is emerging. this own-initiative report by the european parliament is a response to the european commission's communication, which contains 14 measures to be taken to ensure that the eu plays a leading role in the development of these new networks of interconnected objects. the parliament's report focuses on the issue of privacy, the benefits of the internet of things for the quality of life of european consumers and the accessibility and inclusiveness of the internet of things. in full agreement with these priorities, i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report to influence the next internet governance forum, to be held in vilnius from 25 to 29 september. parliament called for the forum to continue its work, but for the participation of developing countries to be improved and for coordination with national and regional forums to be improved. it also called on the eu to develop a strategy on the fundamental aspects of internet governance and to promote reform of the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (icann).
in writing. i welcome the considerations in this report that make the internet a global public good whose organisation must be ensured in the common interest. it emphasises the importance of the internet in the political debate. it is in the name of these principles, which have been duly recalled, that i am voting against this text. how can we advocate respect for the common interest on the one hand and, on the other, call for a shared public/private governance that does not impede free competition? the text does have the merit of recalling the importance of the general interest, but it achieves the opposite result. the euro-liberal dogmatism is a shipwreck for europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on internet governance but abstained on the point calling for the protection of intellectual property rights holders to be given priority by placing them on an equal footing with consumers. good internet governance must guarantee access for all to goods, including cultural goods, in a digital environment, but this cannot be done at the expense of the rights of creators and in particular of authors, which cannot be treated as a simple intellectual property right; authors should be able to choose how they want to give access to their works. and we also need to guarantee user privacy and creativity. a balance between user rights and creator rights is therefore essential to enable individuals to flourish as informed citizens, consumers and creators.
in writing. this own-initiative report examines the community's actions in the field of innovation policy and sets out some priorities for the definition of a new innovation policy. among these, parliament expressed the wish that innovation should not be limited to technological aspects but should also cover administrative, organisational and social innovations. it also stresses the development of new innovation indicators, better suited to increasingly knowledge-based economies. finally, and this is important to me, the report calls for improving the synergy effects between the framework programmes for research and innovation and the structural funds. i fully share the approach advocated in this report and supported it in the vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my german colleague hermann winkler, drawn up in response to the european commission's communication 'rethinking community innovation policy in a changing world'. innovation is at the heart of successfully addressing the major societal and environmental challenges facing the union today and achieving its strategic policy objectives. we will not achieve our 2020 energy and climate targets unless we accelerate the development and widespread use of clean, sustainable and efficient energy technologies. i support the strengthening of the dialogue between universities and businesses. as regards the budgetary aspects, at the level of constant public levies, there is a need to make innovation policy more community-oriented.
in writing. it is the innovations of tomorrow that will enable europe to meet the major economic, social and environmental challenges of the coming decades. we need to increase our efforts to implement an ambitious innovation policy in europe. that is the spirit of my colleague hermann winkler's report, which i supported. first, we must increase the financial support for it. the share of the european budget devoted to innovation must increase substantially, and i hope that the next financial perspective 2014-2020 will be in this direction. member states must also step up their efforts to reach the barcelona target as soon as possible by devoting at least 3% of their gdp to r & d. it is also essential to improve the coordination of european and national policies. to be effective, innovation policy must be thought of in a global, coherent and long-term way. in addition, the dialogue between the research sector and the economic sector needs to be strengthened. in this sense, i welcome the creation of the european institute of innovation and technology, which will help to stimulate relations between these two worlds.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr cashman because it seems to me that parliament should take a clear position on the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs). these must not be jeopardised by the current economic crisis. these goals, adopted at the millennium summit in 2000, are still far from being achieved. the goals are to reduce extreme poverty and hunger, to ensure primary education for all, to promote gender equality, to reduce child mortality, to improve maternal health, to combat hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis, to protect the environment in a sustainable way and to establish a global partnership for development. in september 2010, all un member states will meet to determine the way forward and improve the results. by adopting this resolution, the european parliament demonstrates to the heads of state and government its commitment to achieving the mdgs.
in writing. i voted for the cashman report on the state of the achievement of the millennium development goals, which was drawn up in the year 2000. it seems that these objectives will not be achieved. the eu has a huge responsibility as the main provider of aid to poor countries and as such is heard on the international stage on development issues. the cashman report gives a very accurate account of the millennium development goals, with emphasis on extreme poverty, the situation of women, health, education, the environment. the report stresses that the european union must ensure that development policies are consistent. the agricultural, fishing and commercial activities of a state must not be in the way of its development. the report by mr van miert is a good example of the need to develop a common approach to the problem of the environment. the observation made at the millennium summit in 2000 is more valid than ever. it is the duty of our leaders to bring these realistic and achievable goals to fruition as quickly as possible. it's a matter of will.
in writing. it is a strong message that parliament is sending by adopting a resolution on progress towards the millennium development goals. this shows the importance for europe of eliminating poverty, hunger, disease and infant and maternal mortality by 2015. on the eve of the european council, the message is clear. eu heads of state and government must meet their financial commitments, including and even more so in this time of global economic and financial crisis. a contribution of 0.7% of the gnp of the states is required. to make up for its financial commitments, europe needs to create new financing mechanisms, such as a 0.05% tax on financial transactions. given the current size of these transactions (they recently reached 70 times the world gross national income), such a tax could raise €10 billion a year. it would also have the advantage of involving the financial sector. this would seem fair, since the sector has benefited from huge state aid to survive the unprecedented crisis it had itself caused. a unilateral eu initiative could act as a catalyst at the global level.
in writing. achieving the millennium development goals by 2015 is a fundamental commitment of the international community. but the latter did not have the means to hold him. two thirds of the way through it is clear that many ldcs will not be able to achieve any of the goals of poverty eradication, access to education and health and that most developing countries will be far from it. europe is the largest international donor, but it cannot be satisfied, with 0.4% of gni, to be so far from the 0.56% target for oda (official development assistance) in 2010, which it had set itself. the need for assistance is greater than ever, particularly in the areas of food security, climate change, education, health, especially for hiv patients, and maternal and reproductive health. the s&d group with the cashman report calls for the european council of 17 june to endorse the proposal for a tax on international financial transactions of 0.05% which would bring in €10 billion, and sets itself the target of 0.63% of european gni in 2012 to move towards 0.7%.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i support the pursuit of a major objective of development policy, namely the reduction of poverty. member states have a key responsibility and must meet their commitments here; we still have to remind them. while progress has been encouraging, including increased schooling for poor children and the fight against malaria and tuberculosis, there is still much work to be done to meet the commitments of all by 2015, despite the current crisis. i therefore support the introduction of a tax on foreign exchange and derivatives transactions and the reduction of the debt of developing countries and the cancellation of the debt of the least developed countries. finally, i voted in favour of several amendments to develop action in the area of sexual and reproductive health, as they are essential in the fight against aids and the reduction of maternal mortality. these are measures that should not be neglected.
in writing. there are some positive aspects to this report. the emphasis on the ecological debt of the northern countries vis-à-vis the southern countries and the demand for additional aid in this area. i also agree with the demand that the cancellation of national debts should no longer be considered as an integral part of official development assistance. the same applies to the demand for the establishment of an equitable distribution of wealth, support for small local farms and measures to promote access to land, water and other resources of biodiversity. it is regrettable, however, that after putting forward such proposals, the report endorses the economic partnership agreements, the doha round and all wto agreements, in other words the opposite of the principles stated. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. this report on progress towards the mdgs took a turn that i could not support: it was important for me to vote against the cashman report as a whole, following the positive vote on the second item put to the vote in paragraph 42 of mr cashman's draft report. the lack of clarity as to the underlying idea of the phrase "safe abortion" could not be ignored. abortion, although necessary in certain exceptional circumstances, should not be considered as a means of contraception; besides, like all medical procedures, it's never without risks. we must not trivialize it. development is first and foremost about respect for life.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of rating agencies was of concern to this parliament at the end of the previous term of office and i would like to point out the responsiveness of both the commission and parliament in this respect, which adopted a regulation on rating agencies. today we are asking ourselves the question again because of the findings that have been made about the role of the agencies during the crisis. we can blame them for not seeing the crisis coming, we can blame them for the volatility of their ratings and for the untimely decisions in the announcement, especially when it comes to sovereign debt ratings. i think, however, that this question must be examined with clarity. first, the fact that agencies rate products that they have submitted to investors is not in itself shocking. the investors who invest, who bring money, have the right to try to know the risks or difficulties that may occur, as well as the good grades. the situation becomes a little more ambiguous when these notes are used in banking regulations to determine the amounts of capital that banks must have in return for certain of their investments. from this point of view, the 2009 regulation does not really provide an answer since it was concerned with organising both the authorisation and supervision of credit rating agencies. so, legitimacy of a rating, but is it legit to distribute them the way agencies distribute them? i think that the texts you will propose - i would like to emphasize that you have just tabled the text on the introduction of european supervision of agencies in the context of the new financial regulation - should answer these questions, first of all on competition in the field of agencies. in my view, i do not think that the mere affirmation of the creation of a european agency, even a public one, is a solution that solves the problems. if it's an agency that has to rate more kindly, more generously than others, it doesn't do much good. i think we need to look more closely at the conditions under which the agencies disseminate their ratings. there are the notes on private companies, there are the notes on sovereign debt. i will insist on the rating of sovereign debts. the authority which will be responsible for the supervision and oversight of the agencies which will be active in europe, because parliament has asked for it, is esma, the new financial services authority. and i think that in the powers conferred on esma, it should be given the possibility not only to supervise the agencies effectively but also, in the case of sovereign debt, to provide a mechanism to control, without censorship, the way in which the rating agencies disseminate ratings relating to sovereign debt. we cannot accept that, as has happened, fifteen minutes before the end of the market, an agency degrades a country, which obviously has very bad consequences. what is needed is a preventive mechanism which obliges the rating agencies to inform the supervisor, possibly very quickly, of the conditions under which they intend to issue ratings so that the supervisor can verify both that the normal procedures have been followed and, above all, that the conditions for the issue will not disturb the situation, particularly with regard to sovereign debts. corporate debts are not like government debts, they deserve to be treated differently. however, some people have mentioned the court of auditors, but there is no court of auditors in every european country and not all courts of auditors are independent. that, mr president, commissioner, is the point of our questions. how can the functioning of the agencies be improved, especially the dissemination of information, and how can competition be improved?
author. - mr president, hello, commissioner, you come from a country where the michelin guide is always a source of emotion when it comes to the best restaurants. so we're not going to say that we're against scoring, which, after all, also allows for healthy emulation and rewarding of different performances. i therefore agree with what jean-paul gauzès has just said. it's not about demonizing the notator. it is really a question of looking at the conditions under which it operates. in this case, these are institutions with quite considerable powers, and that is why we must look closely at how they work. jean-paul gauzès has just reminded us of what i was going to say, namely that there is a difference between the rating of private companies and that of sovereign debt, but in both cases there is the same problem, namely: is the methodology the right one? is there a right standard for judging what a company does or how a state manages its debt? secondly, is there sufficient transparency about the possible links between the rater and the rated entity? all this really deserves to be looked at closely and to be framed, and we thank you for continuing on the basis of what parliament itself proposed in the last parliamentary term in the jean-paul gauzès report. in this respect, i think it is very important that we continue the path that has already been opened by parliament. i share the view that a european rating agency is not necessarily the top priority today. the important thing is that we make sure that the control, as it is today, as it is carried out, is supervised. and that brings me to a point also from esma, this authority which should be coming into being soon. i am one of the rapporteurs on the financial supervision package, together with sven giegold, who is here and is the rapporteur for esma. i would like to appeal to the member states - the presidency is not here, but i know how well you can convey messages to them, commissioner, and how much we appreciate what you are doing to get this matter moving. i think the member states must be serious. we cannot make grand statements to the media while rightly being moved by the consequences of certain decisions of the agencies and, moreover, when it comes to the creation of esma, throwing the new authority into disarray. we really want this authority to be clearly identified, to have strong powers at european level and, in particular, to be able to monitor the rating agencies. it will be one of his duties, and not the least. this also goes hand in hand with our desire to have, for example, market infrastructures and clearing houses supervised by a european authority. there is a lack of transparency in the marketplace that we are concerned about. we are not hostile to competition, far from it. we're not hostile to a competition between actors, far from it. the way in which their services are evaluated must simply be in accordance with the rules of transparency and reliability which are characteristic of markets worthy of the name. so once again we encourage you to go ahead and we call on the states not to impede the process of creating esma, not to empty the supervisory package of its contents, because, by putting vetoes, we could end up not being able to control what we all want, here and in the capitals, to put under more rigorous control.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the nuisance of rating agencies is no longer to be demonstrated. the sovereign debt crisis confirms their procyclical nature. blinded by the fire, the rating agencies are acting as real arsonists in the fire of the crisis. the commission regulation of september 2009 as usual remained a dead letter. once again, the european institutions are forced to act with urgency, as unpredictable as they are by nature. the proposals we are hearing range from the maintenance of market law, perverted by obvious conflicts of interest, to the soviet-style hyperregulation dear to the european commission. we're wandering from charybdis to scylla. the recent desire expressed by mr barroso to place the rating agencies under the supervision of the european central bank and the commission is purely illusory, especially since the astonishing statement of mr jean-claude trichet in february 2010, i quote: 'efforts to consolidate the balance sheet of banks require a high level of confidentiality'. in other words, opaque and secretive. clearly, the effects are being addressed, not the causes. whether investors or issuers have to pay the agencies, whether they have to be private or public, independent or supervised, does not settle anything. until the possibility of buying without owning and selling without owning is eliminated by ex nihilo credit, as maurice allais claims, capitalism will wander in cracked bubbles, ever more devastating to peoples and economies. first of all, therefore, we must prohibit the creation of money and promises to pay without any real and effective counterpart. this will put an end to the frenzied and irrational speculation in the markets. then the rating agencies will be of no use.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is regrettable that the european budget, which should be a symbol of solidarity and the will to act together, has become a rigid instrument, misunderstood by the citizens, out of step with the expectations of european society, unable to be deployed to combat the social impacts of the crisis. in this context, not a day goes by without some media outlet or political figure calling for the need to strengthen the european budget. however, tensions are increasing between too modest revenues, too dependent on the contribution of the member states, and the expenditure that the union should incur to revive growth. for example, in the 2011 draft budget, the commission simply presents a margin of manoeuvre of €50 million to support new projects related to employment and the competitiveness of enterprises, which are priority. the revision of the financial framework is thus a major challenge for the future of the union if we are to make it a true political and economic leader, but also and above all a player close to the citizens at a time when almost 25 million of them are affected by unemployment.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we celebrated the anniversary of the schengen agreements with presidents buzek and barroso. we are setting a new concrete stone late tonight in the preparation of the draft council decision. we are moving from thinking to action and cooperation, these essential preconditions for the abolition of border controls with bulgaria and romania, which are being fulfilled in the light of the first assessments. the two countries must soon be able to guarantee the protection and processing of personal data. this is good news and it means that these two countries will be fully integrated into the schengen area, which will help to strengthen security and prosperity, not only for these countries but for the whole of the european continent. i am convinced that this will help to combat the problems of migration and illegal immigration, international crime and all sorts of other scourges. this will help to reduce the risks. two very quick remarks. the president will withdraw the floor.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i welcome the question put by our president in the middle of the football world cup. the commission's study is indeed worrying in that it denounces the threats to the ethics and reputation of sport. if the sports movement is to remain the main regulator, supported by these thousands of volunteers, men and women, who bring the spirit of sport to life as we love it, since it is a factor of individual development, the states must be at its side to punish breaches of public order and to punish deviations. these are the same as in the sports business, where athletes are increasingly becoming commodities and their agents mere brokers, placing them as mere commodities, precisely. the transfers are reaching astronomical sums and the rights of miners are increasingly being violated. these are cross-border excesses, they are the excesses of king money, of mad money, and unfortunately they have been reinforced by the case law of the court of justice of the european communities. the governing bodies of the few sports concerned, and in particular those of football, are seeking the help of the european bodies. yes, commissioner, we must act and i regret that france has just voted against the legislation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we often talk about a global crisis, but with growth averaging almost 10% for years, the emerging countries are not in crisis - that is good for them - but are also expanding. with 3% growth this year, even the united states, which - let us not forget - caused the crisis of confidence in the markets triggered by the lehman brothers bankruptcy and caused by excessive deregulation, is on the way back to growth. in these circumstances, we must call a spade a spade and speak of a crisis, not global, but european. the european council this weekend must give short- and long-term answers to the question of how to remedy this crisis. short-term responses with the reduction of budget deficits, and this is well under way - i congratulate the countries that have already done this - and also with greater coordination of our member states in budgetary, fiscal and social matters. the european union must also take action to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the economic crisis, and that the european union is not left behind in the economic crisis. the european union must also take action to ensure that the european union is not left behind in the economic crisis. the alarm has sounded for europe and everyone knows that the alarm is not always a pleasant one. if heads of state and government, more concerned with preserving their popularity than serving the public interest, content themselves with measurements or advertising effects, it will have the same effect as an alarm clock that is turned off without rising at the first ringing. if, on the other hand, our leaders really take the problem seriously and heed the call of the european parliament, the commission and the president of the european council to act in a concerted and massive manner, we will give 500 million europeans new confidence in their future. i hope they will work this afternoon or tomorrow in that spirit, because this is indeed a crisis of confidence, a confidence called into question by the markets, partly rightly, since we have lived too long beyond our means, partly wrongly and with an irresponsible fever. my group asks the member states, their executive bodies and their parliaments to understand that submitting their budgets to a debate before they are adopted is a sign of european solidarity and not a crime against sovereignty. similarly, to debate as a group of 27 before deciding individually on our social measures - working time, retirement age - or our fiscal policy instruments, is not to undermine their independence because we cannot - and we cannot in any case - ask for solidarity when things go wrong, while refusing even to have a dialogue between us on our respective public finances. if this crisis is to teach us anything, it is this. so we must sum up: less intergovernmental and more community. we repeat here, mr president-in-office, that we are talking to deaf people. we need more community and we will get out of this crisis together. we also need less national, more european, and we will have more of a collective vision. this does not mean that strasbourg or brussels will decide everything. it simply means that our countries will finally have the european policies and reflexes needed to make the euro a stronger, healthier and also more stable currency. the european construction is reaching a certain moment of truth, which calls for clear answers to two simple questions. what do we really want to do together? we must take this seriously and do it together. what financial resources do we want to invest in this project and do we want to waste these resources by spending them each in our own corner or do we want to pool them to ensure a better result at a lower cost to the taxpayer? the epp group expects the european council to have the courage to answer these two questions frankly. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the next council meeting is taking place at a time of crisis which is worrying and destabilising our fellow citizens. in the member states, the plans for action are multiplying, in a dispersed order, and the leaders are losing their way in vain semantic disputes. well, we have to get out of all this. we cannot restore confidence without budgetary and economic steering by the european union. it's obvious and it's urgent. it is therefore for the commission to exercise its right of initiative fully. i would like to see the commission put forward a number of proposals. firstly, the establishment of a sustainable european monetary fund and a european bond market. secondly, as you said, the coordination of the budgets of the member states with two objectives: the search for balanced public finances, but also the synergy of the investments needed for the future. in addition, the creation at european level of a tax on financial institutions to prevent the taxpayer from ever having to finance banks again, the medium-term approximation of our tax laws, especially those on companies, and, finally, a larger european budget with own resources. a word on sanctions: for me, the question should not be to add more sanctions, but to implement them. i would also like to propose a very simple rule to the commission: that it should now make public all the written commitments it receives from governments. i am sure that this will help to advance the debate, at least in a number of member states.
madam president, mr president, mr minister, there is a great absentee today, mr van rompuy. we are not preparing a council meeting, we are preparing a european council meeting. i'll never get used to it being the council. it is not against you, mr minister, it is that mr van rompuy is really missing a political alliance with parliament because he is, above all, doing the minimum service. i would like to ask you, mr president of the european commission, why you think that the eu 2020 strategy will work, when the lisbon strategy has failed. we agree on ambitions and objectives, but we do not agree on the means. so we're making you some proposals. we believe that the time has come to make a financial, political and economic alliance with the member states on operation and investment. on the functioning: we must have, with the member states, a policy of coordination of public expenditure on european affairs: defence 27 armies, no enemies energy, research, no coherence; one internal market, 27 national regulators, no ambition, 27 diplomatic missions and hundreds of buildings abroad; one customs office and 27 customs administrations. the union is not investing enough. we need to make a billion-dollar investment plan on high-speed rail, rivers, energy, water, space, education, health. the member states must raise the capital of the european investment bank to the tune of eur 230 billion and we must draw from our budget some eur 30 billion to be allocated to an investment section of the european union. the time has come to have, with the national parliaments, the european budgetary spring to have a continent-wide economic and financial debate.
madam president, europe has often made progress through the crises it has faced, and this is what has happened quite recently. the fact remains that the sovereign debt crisis has unequivocally revealed the absence of real european economic coordination and the price we are paying for this absence of real european economic and budgetary coordination. the debate on the need for such coordination of our economic and budgetary policies, which is far in advance of the drawing up of draft national budgets in the member states, must therefore, in my view, take place - not exclusively, of course, but first and foremost - within the framework of economic and monetary union. economic and monetary union, that is to say, having a common currency, naturally gives us greater responsibility and solidarity towards each other. so, no, there will be no two-speed europe or two-club europe, but there is no doubt that economic and monetary union must be strengthened.
madam president, madam high representative, i welcome the new dynamism brought about by the launch of the modernisation partnership and its pragmatism. this new partnership, if it were only for that purpose, would at least have the merit of underlining how indispensable russia is as a geopolitical partner for the european union. i also welcome the positive comments on cooperation with russia in crisis management. a few remarks, though. while the union's demands are always put forward, the interests or positions of its partner seem systematically undervalued or disregarded, whether in the field of energy or in the way it can analyse the eastern partnership and the atlanticist aspirations of its closest neighbours. i also note that the firmness of the speeches of most of the member states of the union and the virulence of the condemnations of human rights violations seem to be reserved for russia alone. the words are more polite, the diplomacy more restrained, when it comes to china, for example, its systematic violations of the rule of law, even if only in the case of the laogai, this global factory in the light of the european minimum social requirements, when our french or european workers are unemployed. let me remind you of the saying ad augusta per angusta, to the summits by the narrow roads, because that is how i see the efforts of russia today, freed from the criminal marxist poison which for so many decades has bled and locked up this country. the present russian federation will have succeeded in rearing the head of an entire nation despite the considerable difficulties and challenges it still faces. so a little modesty, gentlemen of the europeanists, especially when the european superstate is not achieving any of its objectives, despite increasingly expensive means and the gradual domination of the states of western europe and central and eastern europe. i cannot help but recall that this assembly was more lenient towards the communist soviet union than towards russia. it is often the same people who yesterday were campaigning for unilateral disarmament in the west and for participation in mr gorbachev's common home who today feel the most virtuous indignation and the greatest hatred towards the union-russia partnership. i should like to inform you, if you have not already done so, of new historical facts which will emerge from the gradual translation of the secret soviet archives which the courageous mr pavel stroilov has managed to obtain, archives which have already given and will still give many unpleasant surprises to the leaders of the single-minded opinion on the reality of the end of the cold war, which was really mr gorbachev and the corruption of the europeanist powers of today who then enthusiastically wanted to make certain soviet projects possible. at the risk of repeating myself, russia is a vital and strategic partner for the european states and our relations must be strengthened to the benefit of all parties. this country is much closer to us in terms of culture, civilization, history, geography, mutual interests or common risks than are some of the states you are about to bring into the european union.
mr president, we are voting on the resolution on discharge and parliament remembers that we voted on discharge at the previous part-session. unfortunately, one headline remained in the report. i read it to you: "reasons for postponing the discharge decision". i propose an oral amendment to delete this title and the following title 'other measures to be taken and documents to be submitted to parliament'. i think it's a careless mistake.
mr president, i understand from the commissioner's statement that the commission is withdrawing its proposal which we have rejected. if so, it need no longer be referred to the employment committee.
mr president, in these circumstances and in view of the degree of uncertainty confirmed in the commissioner's reply, i ask, under rule 56 (3), that this house vote on the legislative proposal which now rejects the commission's proposal and i ask my colleagues to confirm their vote by voting for the legislative proposal as amended. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, given the time, i would just ask you to vote on eu 2020 and economic governance again, and to postpone the rest until tomorrow, and if thursday is not enough, we will stay until friday morning. (applause) i would like to thank
by written. - for me, the european union must be both conquering and protecting. the gmes programme (global monitoring for environment and security) is an initiative to develop an operational capacity for earth observation. as ever more sophisticated technologies are now at our disposal to control our environment and thus ensure our security (in the case of natural disasters, pirate attacks at sea, the study of the situation of the ozone layer or climate change, etc.), the european union must invest in this field using all the means at its disposal. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it provides the legal basis and funding for the gmes programme which we need.
in writing. in times of ecological catastrophe, investment in renewable energy is more than necessary. the european union's membership of irena is a good thing in this respect. but more is needed to preserve this common good of mankind - our ecosystem. europe must urgently commit itself to a gradual phase-out of nuclear power and to the harmful logic of the carbon market.
in writing. i voted in favour of authorising the establishment of enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. i am delighted that 12 countries have decided to move forward with this, to make divorce procedures easier for binational couples. in 2007, nearly 300,000 interracial marriages were performed and about 140,000 divorces were recorded. this new procedure will give binational spouses the possibility to choose the law which would apply to their divorce. this is the first implementation of the enhanced cooperation mechanism, which allows progress to be made even when some states do not wish to be concerned by a measure. the new centre strongly advocates the more frequent use of this solution to overcome the blockages created by unanimity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation for 14 member states of the european union, including france, on crossborder divorces. indeed, at a time when the abolition of borders and mobility are favouring binational marriages, and consequently divorces, it is essential that the european union should have a mechanism to clarify this procedure and protect the weaker partner. the fact that the spouses can decide together on the applicable law and that in case of disagreement the court will decide will have a positive impact on both the separating spouses and the children, since divorce is already a painful ordeal for the whole family, and simplifying the divorce procedure will only help them. i also believe, or at least hope, that this enhanced cooperation will serve as a springboard for a global harmonisation of crossborder divorce procedures, because if it is used positively, other member states will join us in this initiative.
in writing. as joseph daul, president of the epp group, has pointed out, estonia's adoption of the euro on 1 january 2011 is a double sign of confidence. estonia's confidence in the euro is a real positive signal for the markets. but also the eu's confidence in estonia, which will become the first baltic country to take the step. this confidence is fully justified, as estonia's public debt ratio is the lowest in europe. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls for estonia to join the euro area.
in writing. we voted against this report, not out of hostility towards estonia, but in protest at the fact that the estonian citizens were not consulted by referendum on this crucial issue. the last few months have shown that the euro is neither a solution nor a protection, but a factor in the worsening of the crisis. the last few weeks have shown that in the end the problem of the euro zone is perhaps less the disdainfully called "pigs" than germany. mrs merkel, cloaked in her superb arrogance, plays no common game where she demands it of others. everyone must show solidarity with germany, its export-oriented economy, its fear of inflation, even if the policies it imposes are absolutely contrary to the interests of its partners. we can see what this has produced in france: the destruction of competitiveness on the altar of the franc-mark parity and then of the 'strong' euro, budgetary constraints which aggravate economic difficulties, the explosion of prices and the decline in purchasing power when the euro is adopted... mrs merkel's germany is playing a dangerous game by demanding austerity, which could cause a contraction in demand among its main customers.
in writing. as a friend of the estonian people, i cannot wish to see them suffer under the yoke of a stability and growth pact and its soon-to-be-reinforced sanctions system. the draconian application of the neoliberal policies advocated by the commission has already plunged more than 20% of the estonian population into extreme poverty. the integration into the euro area will further penalise estonian workers. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on budgetary discharge in the council. at a previous session, the european parliament had already overwhelmingly rejected the decision to postpone the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council on the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2008, as proposed by the rapporteur. this was the position i had taken (by being alone) in the committee on budgetary control in its day, because the european court of auditors makes practically no comments to the council on its management. the european parliament therefore granted discharge to the council, postponing the vote on the resolution accompanying the discharge decision with the observations and recommendations made to the council on the management of its budget. i regret that the committee on budgetary control did not accept, as i proposed, a legal study to determine precisely the rights (and therefore the duties) of the european parliament in the matter of discharge to the council.
in writing. it is regrettable that this parliament does not adopt the same tone of indignation and moral disdain, and does not have the same concern for the taxpayer's money, depending on whether it is his own expenditure or that of another institution. the commission has thus been given discharge, even though for the 15th consecutive year the european court of auditors has not been able to give a favourable opinion on the implementation of the budget of this institution! he is thus satisfied that he himself has been given a discharge in the name of the gentlemen's agreement which he is denouncing today. he is quick to forget his own obscenities: the financial commitment made by an outgoing president of parliament, just before he was replaced, to acquire a building in brussels; the explosion in costs caused by the reforms of the statute for members and assistants, which were poorly assessed upstream; the recent increase in the financial and staff resources of members under a false pretext; the fact that the president of the european parliament has been replaced by a man who is not a member of the european parliament, and the fact that the president of the european parliament has been replaced by a man who is not a member of the european parliament. or the provision of an ipad for every member of parliament! it is true that control over the use of public money is crucial. but we will not be associated with the little war you are waging against the council for political reasons.
in writing. budgetary control is a key responsibility of the european parliament which meps do not take lightly. as elected representatives, we have to be accountable to the citizens for how the european budget is spent. as the european transparency initiative reaffirms, citizens have a right to know how their taxes are spent. the expenditure of the european council, the institution representing the eu's heads of state or government, is no exception to the rule. this year we have sought to clarify the discharge procedure for the european council, reaffirming the powers conferred on parliament by the treaty. while transparency is an important principle for the eu and efforts are being made to improve it in many areas, it is right that the european council provides all the information that the parliament needs to monitor the implementation of its budget. that was the point of postponing the vote on discharge for the council this year. i welcome the initial progress made in this regard, although more is yet to come.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of this directive to guarantee the right to translation for persons prosecuted for criminal offences within the european union. in practical terms, this means that if you are suspected, arrested, questioned or charged, and if you do not understand the language of the country in which it is taking place, you have the right to interpretation and translation during hearings, interrogations, meetings with your lawyer. the point is to avoid miscarriages of justice. when someone is arrested or extradited on the basis of a european arrest warrant, or is simply arrested in a state other than his state of origin, he must be treated fairly.
in writing. mrs ludford's proposal, in the name of the right of defence, creates an absolute right to interpretation and translation of proceedings for those liable who do not speak, or pretend not to speak, the language of the country in which they are being prosecuted. this will increase the cost and length of proceedings, undermine already often insufficient justice budgets and further increase deficits, much to the chagrin of mrs merkel. moreover, the procedures for exercising this right will lead to an increase in the number of persons released on grounds of procedural defect. all this in the interests of an absolutely taboo phenomenon: the over-crime of non-european foreigners in all countries experiencing mass immigration. the worst part is that mrs ludford seems to think that no law enforcement or judicial service has ever considered the usefulness of using interpreters and translators not only for the purpose of conducting investigations or trials but also to comply with the so-called rights of the defence as they result, in our democracies, from national provisions and respect for international commitments. this report is superfluous. that is why we did not vote for it.
in writing. i voted strongly in favour of the adoption of this text, which represents not only a breakthrough in the area of the rights of the defence, but also a historic adoption in that it is the first european criminal law measure adopted in codecision. i am very happy that it was adopted by such a majority. this historic legislation, which grants all european citizens the right to translation and interpretation, as soon as they are informed, suspected, prosecuted, questioned and tried in another european country whose language they do not speak, is a great step forward in the progressive construction of a european area of justice. i also welcome the roadmap contained in the stockholm action plan on procedural safeguards. the rights of persons involved in criminal proceedings must be strengthened and a balance must be struck at all costs between the progress made on the prosecution side and the long delay in the rights of the defence: i am thinking of measures in the field of legal information, legal aid, information for relatives, and for vulnerable persons, which are also necessary.
in writing. after several years of successive failures, i welcome the fact that progress is finally being made in the establishment of procedural safeguards for suspects at european level, safeguards which aim to protect the individual against arbitrariness. in cases involving european citizens arrested for criminal offences committed in another member state, it will now be possible to guarantee them access to interpretation and translation of essential documents in their own language. the europe of justice is on the move and i will continue to support it in the initiatives that will complement it in the coming months, such as the rules on interviews and the assistance of a lawyer.
in writing. this text contains some improvements. it is essential to enable any suspect to obtain, without delay, quality translation and interpretation services in the context of criminal proceedings. the inclusion of sign language in these services is a necessity. however, the braille translation should not be overlooked. i shall abstain on this text. it seems to me unacceptable that only documents considered essential should be considered translated. any suspect has the right to know in detail what is being argued for or against him. it is no more acceptable that an oral translation can be offered as a substitute for a written translation. each suspect must be allowed to review all elements of his case at will. without that, a fair and just trial is a figment of the imagination.
in writing. for many of my fellow citizens, the enlarged european union is not homogeneous enough in socioeconomic terms to prevent unfair competition between companies in the 27 member states. this is the case, for example, in the highly competitive transport sector. in addition to the cohesion policy, which i am fighting for every day, partly because it helps to reduce the development gaps within the european union, we need common rules within the internal market. i therefore voted in favour of the amendment calling into question the exclusion of selfemployed drivers from the european legislation on the working time of lorry drivers. like my colleagues in the french delegation of the european people's party, i intend to impose fair competition between all european heavy-duty drivers and to ensure safety on our roads by reducing driver fatigue. i voted in favour of the whole report, as this amendment was adopted.
in writing. i followed the recommendation of the committee which adopted the report by my slovak colleague edit bauer recommending that parliament reject, at first reading by the ordinary legislative procedure, the proposal for a directive amending the 2002 directive on the organisation of working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities. the report calls on the european commission to withdraw its proposal and to submit a new one. i regret that the european commission has hesitated in its reply as to whether or not to withdraw its proposal. i also regret the rapporteur's position of having her report rejected for an amendment which takes the text of a full directive. the real problem is to combat the false independent road haulage companies. hopefully this series will be able to do that.
in writing. i voted against the commission's proposal to include selfemployed road drivers in the 2002 road transport working time directive for the following reasons: 1- a truck driver who is tired is a danger on the road. it is true that he is self-employed or not, and that his fatigue is due to driving or loading his goods. only the driving activity itself and activities directly related to it (such as loading, unloading, cleaning and maintenance of the vehicle, assistance to passengers or formalities with the police and customs authorities) are taken into account in the calculation of the maximum working time. general administrative work (accounting, management, etc.) is not included. the inclusion in the working time directive does not therefore constitute a danger to the activity of the selfemployed. 3- attempting to define "fake selfemployed" through this text was counterproductive. voting for the definitive exclusion of selfemployed workers from the working time directive was to favour the false selfemployed and, in the end, to encourage unfair competition.
in writing. i voted with determination to reject the european commission's proposal not to include selfemployed road drivers in the scope of the road transport working time directive. i am particularly sensitive to the situation of road workers and, in particular, selfemployed road workers, and i am very pleased that the european commission's proposal has been rejected, in this case but also definitively, because i am strongly in favour of including selfemployed drivers in the scope of this directive, in view of the significant risks and negative impact of excluding selfemployed drivers. the european union is estimated to have 1.9 million professional drivers of road haulage vehicles, 31% of whom are selfemployed; i believe that it is necessary to frame their activities within the framework of this directive to ensure a level playing field and to improve road safety. today's europe (with unprecedented growth in road transport volumes and road traffic intensity over the last decade) needs measures to enhance safety on its roads more than ever and, therefore, a framework for the working conditions of professional drivers, which have unfortunately deteriorated.
in writing. i voted against the commission's proposal to exclude selfemployed bus and coach drivers from the scope of the working time directive. not only the health and safety of the drivers is at stake here, but also the safety of other individual drivers, as a tired driver can become a dangerous driver for himself and others. i find the attitude of the rapporteur on this matter scandalous, who continued to negotiate with the council and the commission without any official mandate. this situation is all the more unacceptable because it seems to reflect the interests of markets rather than those of individuals. the social europe must not be trampled on in this way, and that is what i have said.
in writing. to regulate the working time of selfemployed road hauliers seems to us to be contrary to the freedom of enterprise and the very status of the selfemployed. we therefore voted in favour of mrs bauer's report, which seeks to exclude this category from the scope of the directive. how can the working time of a selfemployed person be controlled? how can the non-road working time (administrative, commercial, etc.) of someone who is not and who cannot be recorded by the tachograph be taken into account? beyond the cost of implementing such regulation, it would simply be inapplicable and would be the final blow to an industry already badly hit by the crisis. on the other hand, the fight against the fake independent road hauliers, that is, the drivers who, under the appearance of independence, are in fact employees in disguise, must be intensified and a precise definition must be implemented to distinguish between the "real" and the "fake". fighting social dumping, yes. but it is not the independent road hauliers who are paying the price for the european policy of opening up the transport sector to competition, and cabotage in particular.
in writing. i voted for the sommer report because it represents a balanced compromise between consumer information, which must not be excessive at the risk of being counterproductive and too costly, and lack of information, which would risk undermining the quality of the choices made by the consumer. i am particularly pleased that the european parliament has rejected the principle of a tricolour light which is supposed to indicate the level of health hazards in food. everyone knows that a little chocolate, a little wine, is good for your health! too much chocolate, too much wine, that's bad! a color code of "green, orange, red" would have made no sense! once again the epp group has proved the european parliament right...
in writing. this reform of consumer information has been sloppy and politicized. the commission is not so much concerned with providing clear, useful and easily understandable information as with making moral statements by means of labels. the rapporteur has tried to pass, without always succeeding, common sense amendments, such as the removal of the famous 'nutritional profiles', which have no scientific basis but are the result of an ideological desire to control what is on our plates, by making us feel guilty. it is true that brussels will certainly fail less in this area than in all those which fall within its competence, such as the control of financial speculation or illegal immigration, the fight against counterfeiting, etc. it is a sign of both powerlessness and tyranny: powerlessness in the face of great political, economic and social problems, tyranny over defenseless individuals. these profiles have been maintained. let's hope they disappear on second reading. the only good surprise was the requirement to indicate whether an animal was slaughtered without stunning, that is, in accordance with a ritual, to avoid that it could be sold unknowingly to consumers who do not share the religious convictions that require such procedures!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on consumer information on foodstuffs. i am pleased with this vote which will enable consumers to have clear, legible and reliable labelling on a number of food products in the future. the idea of a colour code, wanted by the socialists and the greens, on packaging indicating whether the quantity of essential nutrients is high (green), medium (yellow) or low (red) has been rejected thanks to the european people's party and i welcome that! the basis of a balanced diet is a varied diet. the colour code would have the effect of stigmatising certain foods and i do not see how it would help our fellow citizens to balance their diet. we have managed to avoid over-regulation which would harm consumers and our smes. i am also pleased with the exemption from nutritional labelling for wine, which is the pleasure sector par excellence. we should not jeopardize our wine sector, which is already subject to detailed regulations.
in writing. i have advocated clearer labelling of the nutritional values on the front of all pre-packaged food packaging, in particular by supporting the introduction of a 'colour code' to make it easier to identify the content of essential nutrients, which is advocated by consumer associations and health professionals. the food industry must stop hiding the reality of the detrimental effects on nutritional balance that certain foods clearly cause. i also voted in favour of an amendment to supplement the information on the origin of products by specifying their true origin, that is to say the place where the food is wholly obtained. finally, i also rejected the proposal to include alcohol in the regulation.
in writing. i am very pleased with the outcome of the vote on the sommer report. the european parliament has opted for a readable and educational labelling system that will promote balanced consumption patterns. i also welcome the adoption of amendment no 205 which will make it possible to include a mandatory label for meat from animals slaughtered without stunning. the consumer must be informed about the respect of animal welfare practices, which are at the heart of european food policy. it is not a question of stigmatising religious communities or of hindering their production and distribution of meat, but simply of allowing the european citizen to consume with full knowledge of the facts.
in writing. supported by the five largest political groups in the european parliament, this joint resolution calls on the member states to go further in their commitments to this long-term economic strategy of the european union. after the lisbon strategy (2000-2010) which was marked by its lack of concrete results, the eu 2020 strategy does not have the right to disappoint. the member states will therefore have to make the reforms and adopt the measures necessary to achieve the objectives set. personally, i am pleased that my colleagues supported my call for further simplification of procedures for the structural funds and included in the resolution the following sentence that i had prepared: i therefore urge that the rules for implementing cohesion policy be further simplified to promote conviviality and accountability and to increase responsiveness to future challenges and the risk of economic crises
in writing. of course i support the objectives of strategy 2020, particularly in the areas of employment, research, development and innovation, the fight against climate change, poverty reduction and improving the level of training. but i fear that, in the absence of binding commitments made and respected by the member states, these objectives will not be achieved. if we continue to use the open method of coordination, despite the repeated requests of the european parliament, the same causes will produce the same effects. what has not worked for the lisbon strategy over the last 10 years will not work for the europe 2020 strategy either. we need more of a community method. and we need measures that are directly operational. the success of the eu 2020 strategy depends on this.
in writing. europe is clearly suffering from a lack of economic governance. while monetary policy is unified around the euro, each member state unfortunately continues to pursue its own economic policy, often without taking into account the reforms of its neighbour, or even sometimes by 'smearing' the situation of its public accounts. this was the source of the greek crisis and could well cause other crises in the future if we are not careful. i therefore agree 100% with the wording of paragraph 15 of this resolution on economic governance. it is true that 'member states should not regard their respective economic policies as a matter of purely national interest but also as a matter of common interest and should formulate their policies accordingly'. beyond that, the proposed measures seem to me to be really moving in the right direction: strengthening the powers of eurostat, creating a european monetary fund, issuing euro-bonds, adopting binding measures with regard to the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy, taking better account of the european parliament in the field of economic policy, etc. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. to emerge from the financial crisis, europe needs ambitious and far-reaching reform of its economic governance. the european parliament stresses the need to rely on: (i) more of the community method rather than on the strengthening of intergovernmentalism; and (ii) operational measures rather than on simple open coordination and peer review, which led to the failure of the lisbon strategy. the strategy advocated by a large majority in parliament is based on five pillars: a more proactive stability and growth pact; genuine economic governance led by the commission; an acceleration of the transition to a sustainable economy, based on the monti report and a european programme of investment in the infrastructure of central and southern europe; new permanent instruments (european monetary fund and european bond market) to be better prepared for future crises; a better calibrated eu2020 strategy, with sanctions and incentives for its proper implementation.
in writing. the current crisis is a direct consequence of the liberal policies advocated by the european union. the stability and growth pact is directly responsible for the present suffering of the people of the euro area. it is an aberration to want to apply it more rigorously. the commission's request for more powers in this area is another. it is the people who produce the wealth that the ruling eurocracy shares. it is high time that the people take back power in europe, because it is not the barroso commission or the epp, sd, alde and green groups, which signed this resolution, that will build the europe of solidarity we need.
in writing. in one year's time, in july 2011, the european commission will present a quantified proposal for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. it is essential that the european parliament thinks ahead to the challenges ahead and formulates its budgetary priorities. i therefore voted in favour of the creation of this special parliamentary committee, whose work will last for one year and whose task will be to: (a) define parliament's political priorities for the post-2013 mff, in both legislative and budgetary terms; (b) estimate the financial resources needed to enable the european union to achieve its objectives and implement its policies as from 1 january 2014; (c) define the duration of the next mff; (d) to propose a structure for the future cfp, indicating the main areas of union activity; (e) to propose guidelines for an indicative allocation of resources between the different headings of the mff; (f) clarify the link between a reform of the system of financing the eu budget and a review of expenditure. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues very warmly for having chosen me to sit on this committee as an alternate member, alongside michel dantin, alain lamassoure and damien abad.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam high representative, i believe that everyone in this house agrees that we condemn the attack on the flotilla that was trying to break the blockade of gaza. i think everyone agrees that israeli policy, as it exists, as it is being implemented or as it has been for years, will lead israel into a hole from which it will be difficult for the state to get out. we all agree. the problem now is how to change this policy. you yourself said that we must continue to work for reconciliation or, say, an agreement between the palestinian forces, as you call the factions. i prefer to call them the forces. one thing must be added: the authority in gaza, whether we like it or not - i don't like it - is no longer the palestinian authority, it is hamas. we could have dreamed of something else, but in politics, reality does not always allow us to dream. we must now find ways of breaking the blockade and the mental blockade that exists among us, among the israelis and perhaps also among the palestinians. i'll tell you what. you said, "we have to open the blockade". not just rafa. we need to open all the entrances. the european union must, can and demands that it controls its entry. with who? well, for example, with the turkish army. and i would see - and this is a small sign of irony - many german soldiers and turkish soldiers together control the entrance to gaza so that food and construction materials enter and weapons do not. let's move on. let's be at the service of the opening of the blockade. we are not asking for it, we are asking for the instruments to open the blockade. i would like to continue speaking in german now, because it is always said: many in germany and many in europe have a bad conscience towards israel. i would like to say to you: a bad conscience does not make a politician. if a man wants to have a conscience, if he wants to be for israel, then he must say that what happened now has exceeded the limits of acceptable. the friends of israel are its critics. the people who criticize israel today are not israel's friends. we must be like people like david crossmann, who in israel quite rightly said that what was made in israel was, in fact, the reason why israel was founded. the policy of today is a policy which will not only realize the israeli zionist dream, but in reality destroy it. that is why we as europeans must not be afraid of criticism towards the israelis and the palestinians, not afraid to say: yes, we need a new stability in the region. this new stability will only be achieved when we as europeans are ready, not only as a mediating force but also as a participatory force. if we don't do that, there will be no order. therefore, i ask you not only to appeal, but also to make suggestions, as we europeans with turkey, which is important in this region, can contribute, that concrete steps are taken, so that this blockade is ended.
mr president, we have seen for ourselves that the blockade of gaza is not tenable. its people are 80% dependent on international aid. they don't live, they survive, without a future and without any hope. moreover, the blockade of gaza is counterproductive. he strengthens the very things we would weaken. and as one fatah official put it, it serves as an excuse for the gaza leadership to justify everything: the ruined economy and their own mistakes. the european union must decide to act. at the same time, it must guarantee israel's security and work to end the blockade, possibly with european control. it must finally exist as a major actor speaking with one voice and putting all its means of budgetary, trade, economic and development policy at the service of a single objective, the eventual coexistence of two states.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of our visit to gaza from 26 to 28 may 2010, our delegation unanimously called for an immediate, total and lasting lifting of the israeli blockade. the unanimous response to this humanitarian and political tragedy has given rise to our joint resolution, which i hope will be adopted by a large majority. it is not only necessary, but vital, to speak with one voice, because this is the unity that the european union has lacked up to now, and it is the unity that it needs today to be able to stand up and establish itself as a major and credible actor for peace. the worst thing for europe would be that the tragedy of the flotilla would be compounded by indifference and inaction, due to lack of unity. a political upheaval in europe is needed. it has not only the right but also the duty to act, to dialogue, to condemn and to punish when peace is threatened by either side. madam high representative, we have a huge responsibility today. we cannot simply rebuild buildings without rest. we must build peace and we must do it now. this requires courage and determination. you must build alliances, including with the us and turkey, and not release diplomatic pressure on israel until the complete lifting of the blockade and the existence of an independent international investigation are a fact.
mr president, madam high representative, for too long the international institutions and our european bodies have been making wishes, using the same words, the same good intentions, proclaimed without any clear action, for security and peace in the region and the existence of a palestinian state within the 1967 borders. clear and strong action by the european union is now required. there has been an act of piracy under international law, in international waters, against a humanitarian convoy. we're not going to get anywhere by allowing this travesty of investigation where the criminal creates his own court. nor will we make progress by settling for a vague plan to ease this ruthless blockade. it is the lifting of the blockade that we must demand and obtain. you have the tools to do that. yes, let us create european surveillance missions associated with other states at land and sea crossings. suspend the association agreement between the european union and israel until there is no de facto step. stop the importation of goods from the colonies. we must stop cooperation in military technology and stop arms sales to israel. finally, i ask the question: who will seriously investigate the beating of europeans in israeli prisons, which took place on israeli territory? finally, i would like our parliament to call for an end to the threats against knesset member hanin zoabi. you have the means, madam high representative. if you do, we'll be right by your side.
mr president, the nine victims of the israeli attack on the gaza flotilla, who were riddled with dozens of bullets, mostly at close range and mostly in the back, could have been of any of the forty-two nationalities, but they are nine turkish victims. we can imagine the mobilization of the turkish government, the stirring of public opinion, and some would like to make it seem today, in the light of the actions, the reactions, the pressure that mr erdogan's government is putting on the israeli government, that this is a turkish-israeli affair and that this is, in the end, proof that turkey has decided to turn its back on europe and proof of its new foreign policy. i would really like you, mrs ashton, to remove any ambiguity on this. it must be said loud and clear that he is very happy that mr erdogan is being acclaimed by arab public opinion, because mr erdogan is proving that using political instruments to act is more effective than violence and more effective than radicalism and extremism. i think that is a political lesson that we could encourage and support, and i ask you, mrs ashton, to do so loudly.
mr president, madam high representative, first of all i would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of this murderous military operation. the blockade of gaza, contrary to international law, has led to a humanitarian disaster and a steady deterioration of the socioeconomic situation. 95% of industrial establishments closed, 42% of the workforce unemployed, 75% of the population food insecure. the gaza strip is almost entirely dependent on humanitarian aid. the european union, which is the main donor of humanitarian aid to the palestinian territories, must take the courageous steps needed to put an end to this situation. i was in gaza myself two weeks ago. the situation of the people of gaza is unacceptable from a humanitarian point of view and, as our colleague said earlier, the real friends of israel are those who dare to criticise israel at the moment. this blockade is completely counterproductive and unworthy of the israeli people. mrs ashton, we must put an end to this blockade once and for all, just a little political courage. we have the opportunity and we have the means.
mr president, madam high representative, this attack on civilian ships by israeli commandos obviously requires an impartial and credible investigation. but what credit can we give to a committee that is both judge and party? this attack took place in international waters, so it concerns the international community, and it is of particular concern to europe, which borders the mediterranean. europe should be more vocal and more involved in the search for a political solution based on two states with jerusalem as their capital. europe is making considerable financial efforts to contribute to the development of the palestinian territories, but unfortunately it is too absent from the political process which should lead to the creation of that palestinian state. the financial and budgetary commitment we are showing is not enough. we must also express political will and give ourselves the means to be heard.
mr president, the brutal boarding of the mavi marmara by the israeli army is causing emotion and condemnation. emotion at the nine civilian victims of the assault. condemnation because this rounding up in international waters constitutes a violation of international law. in doing so, the israeli government is punishing its own people because, in the end, we see, with the strengthening of the extremes, the ultimate goal of security in the region moving a little further away. yes, more than ever, the israeli government must abandon the policy of force. i would point out, however, that the media coverage of the mavi marmara flotilla, which was orchestrated from turkey, casts doubt on the purely humanitarian purpose of this operation. an investigation is needed to shed light on the attack, but also on the preparations that preceded this expedition. and i hope that the israeli government will accept that this investigation includes substantial international participation to finally get justice back in this region.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, human rights defenders are known above all by what they do. these are all those who, often at the risk of their lives, are fighting all over the world to implement, live and defend all the rights as they result from the universal declaration of human rights and the texts that have completed it. i can identify with that sentence in the report. yes, our conception of human rights must be that of the united nations, that is to say, we must defend a universal and indivisible conception of human rights. universal, that is to say, universal, indivisible, that is to say, all human rights must be defended equally, without opposing one another, whether civil and political rights, economic and social rights, environmental rights and cultural rights. the european union has put in place a number of instruments in this area, and i welcome the fact that the report looks at them, also in the light of parliament's new powers in this area. i would therefore like to thank mrs hautala for the quality of her report and the way in which she has agreed to work with us. this report is quite critical of the policy of the european union. we all know that between words and deeds, there is still a lot to be done. all too often, economic and diplomatic interests take precedence over human rights, and human rights defenders are the first victims of these ambiguities. the policy of the european union, like that of its member states, is often variable in geometry. as a human rights activist, i cannot bear this. in this report, beyond condemning all the violence against human rights defenders, we are outlining a number of ways in which we will have to build step by step so that the european union can strengthen its credibility without any instrumentalisation. yes, mrs ashton, we have a lot to do in this area. the previous debate showed us this, as will the debate on libya tomorrow afternoon, and the policy that will be adopted in relation to the sale of instruments of torture by a number of european countries.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mrs hautala for the excellent report she has presented to us. in its report, it highlights the tools available to the european union to defend human rights, including one that i consider essential, the human rights clause in every trade agreement. today i would like to focus on the date of 28 june. this is the date of the ceremony which, in a few days, will commemorate the first anniversary of the coup d'état in honduras, a ceremony which will be painful for the people of honduras because, since the election that brought porfirio lobo to power, violence continues, violence against women, violence against human rights defenders, violence against journalists, many of whom have been killed. today, despite protests, unasur is opposed to the european union and the united states, which intend to resume trade activities as if nothing had happened. i would like to call for the european union to be vigilant, using the tools ... (the president cuts off the speaker's microphone)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, freedom of movement is a fundamental right for every european citizen. for this right to be realised, it is essential to have access to safe, quality, environmentally friendly and affordable transport for all. this requires a public rail service that is efficient, serves all territories, is well networked and interconnected. this implies integrated, publicly owned railway companies to achieve both territorial and service equalisation and cooperation at european level. this implies that travellers are seen as users, citizens with rights, and not just as customers whose only interest is the size of their wallet. unfortunately, the commission, the council and the majority of this parliament have dogmatically chosen to make rail transport not an instrument of freedom but a commodity like any other, left to the market and to competition. national railway companies have been broken up by separating infrastructure and transport services, passengers and freight, operations and safety. cross-subsidization, which allowed for territorial and service equalization, was banned. the stupidity of spending millions of dollars to make the locomotives, which could haul a freight train or a passenger train, unable to do so. the balance sheet is overwhelming: deterioration in the quality of service and higher prices for users, line closures, infrastructure that is falling into ruin, and above all, a significant decline in the level of safety. when you separate infrastructure from services, when you entrust the responsibility for security to a third party, you risk the lives of users. accidents, some of which have been fatal, have increased in recent years. this is one of the terrible logical consequences of your irresponsible policy. with the railway packages, instead of modernising the railways in europe and giving them the means to achieve their ambitions, this mode of transport has been disorganised and thrown into stupid competition with air transport, unfair and unequal to the road, to the detriment of the coherence of the networks and the development of local services. thanks to your package, apart from the lgvs, we now travel at a slower speed on the french railway network than a hundred years ago. we were promised that competition would bring down prices, but the opposite has happened. competition, as in the energy sector, causes a sharp increase in prices for consumers. i'll end with one last example. sncf, france's largest electricity consumer, purchased its energy from edf at a specific price. but to establish railway competition, the commission obliges france to legislate so that in june 2011, sncf pays 25% more for its electricity bill. thank you commission, thank you competition. in the midst of the crisis, job seekers and families will pay much higher prices for train tickets.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate our colleague, mrs milana, on her excellent report. the committee on fisheries has proposed this own-initiative report because we now have an urgent need to develop community aquaculture for several reasons. the european union accounts for 2% of world aquaculture and is the largest consumer. the majority of member states even recorded a decrease in aquaculture activity between 2001 and 2008 while consumer demand is steadily increasing. today, aquaculture in europe has no specific legislative framework and therefore no long-term development plan. better organisation will enable us to inform consumers about the environmental and social traceability of european products, which is not the case with certain products from third countries. i am thinking especially of the vietnamese pangasius, dear to our friend struan stevenson. we are all consumers and we want to be well informed about the health and nutritional quality of what we eat. i would also like to reiterate my commitment to a community eco-label for fishery and aquaculture products. secondly, we must be able to reduce the european union's dependence on imported aquaculture products. as you know, we now import 65% of the fishery and aquaculture products consumed in our territory. an organised and responsible european aquaculture will not only enable us to create jobs, to inform consumers and to support the industry within the union, but also to contribute to the supply of quality products to our territories. finally, i would like to add that this report is aimed at promoting a genuine european policy for the sustainable development of aquaculture, and that this development will contribute to the conservation of wild resources.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i share the content and conclusions of my colleague and friend raül romeva i rueda's report, and i welcome the collective work that has been done on this report. this report is based on a reality which is now unavoidable. the bluefin tuna as a species is threatened with extinction and with it many fishermen, an important economic activity and a vital food resource for humanity. i would like to stress the significance of this reality, the shock it represents in relation to the period in which we live. it is indeed a shock. for the first time, there is a clear threat to a consumer product that everyone knows, that is available on supermarket shelves and that everyone eats. it's a strong signal, the signal of a change of era. the protection of bluefin tuna is becoming a major and early environmental alert and the meaning of this alert goes far beyond the bluefin tuna issue alone. the threat to fish stocks and their necessary protection now rings as the symbol of mankind's entry into a new era, that of the scarcity of resources: fisheries resources, food resources, energy resources. the key words must become economy, sharing, precaution, and no more waste, overproduction, overconsumption.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have no doubt that the report we are about to adopt is a transposition of the new conservation measures adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas in recife last november. i am of course pleased with the content of this report and i congratulate our colleague mr romeva i rueda on his work on this matter. the new recommendations lay down rules on the traceability of bluefin tuna caught, transferred, slaughtered, landed and exported to the union, he told us earlier. the report also sets out rules for the verification and validation of catch documents and presents a very clear catch documentation template. these very specific rules are very strict and leave no room for debate. i think this is a significant breakthrough. i think that, thanks to these obligations, we should be able to achieve the necessary transparency with the commission on the quantities caught, which has not been the case recently. on the other hand, as has already been said, but i repeat it, this is the first report to be put to codecision in the committee on fisheries since the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. it is obviously a symbolic moment for us in the committee on fisheries, particularly if it is adopted - but i have no doubt about that, mr president - as we all hope in the first reading. this speech gives me the opportunity, madam commissioner, to review the recent events in the mediterranean. the sudden and authoritarian closure of the bluefin tuna fishery in this region of europe was decided arbitrarily. the commission finally acknowledged that there were 171 tonnes of fish left to be caught by french vessels. the fact that it has decided to reallocate these unfished quotas to artisanal and coastal fishing is a gesture of appeasement but is in no way, in my view, a satisfactory response for tuna seiners which employ a large number of seamen, i would remind you, even if this decision allows theoretically to recover the quantity of catches authorized as a result of the iccat agreements of recife. i would also remind you that at this last meeting, iccat - or cicta, as you like - whose principles are set out in the report by our colleague mr romeva i rueva, took an important and courageous step of reducing by 40% the catches of bluefin tuna in the atlantic and the mediterranean in order to preserve the resource, which is something we all want, of course. there are no pro-resources and anti-resources, it would be too simple. today, an fao expert report says that the species is not endangered. i look forward to the results of the study, which will be published in october - october-november, i believe - so that i can have a clear picture of the stock situation and form a clear opinion. depending on the results of this study, iccat - iccta - will be required to propose management and conservation measures for the species and, i say, these measures must be respected whatever happens.
mr president, i should like to congratulate our colleague, mr romeva i rueda, who has managed to include the technical provisions which have been drawn up directly from the icta meeting in recife, as has just been said, while leaving the possibility of adding new rules from the forthcoming negotiations. the report also contains elements which will make it possible to combat the phenomenon of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and provides guidance on the regulation of stocks. i am particularly in favour of it. our vote comes against a rather tense background, with the decision taken last week by the european commission to close the bluefin tuna fishery by trawlers early. while a common ground seems to have been found - and i would like to welcome the step taken by commissioner damanaki in this respect, who has reached an agreement with france on additional quotas for small-scale and coastal fishing - there is still some doubt about the situation of the purse seiners. the constraints on fishermen are very high and it is this uncertainty that we must avoid, because our fishermen must be able to rely on stable and fair rules of the game. this is the objective of predictability which we will be pursuing in the negotiations on the reform of the cfp. predictability and sustainability must go hand in hand, in particular for the decisions needed to safeguard stocks and the sector in the long term, and the activity and income of fishermen in the short term, with the aim of fisheries that respect fisheries resources.
mr president, i have 15 seconds. the training of magistrates must also include the rights of parliamentarians. i have just been the object of an arbitrary attempt to arrest me in the most elementary violation of my right to parliamentary immunity, which i have nevertheless opposed to the lyon magistrates. i thank you for taking note of this and for asking the president of parliament to demand the french authorities to provide the necessary explanations.
in writing. this own-initiative parliamentary report assesses the current situation and suggests ways forward for the work of human rights defenders around the world. as pointed out in paragraph 7, the entry into force of the lisbon treaty should make it possible to strengthen the european union's presence on the international scene and to provide more support to human rights defenders: considers that the appointment of a high representative for the common foreign and security policy who is also vice-president of the commission and the creation of an external action service are likely to significantly increase the coherence and effectiveness of the union in this field. as mentioned in point 32, the european union's representatives abroad have a real responsibility and therefore duties to fulfil: invites the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and all commissioners responsible for external relations to systematically meet with human rights defenders when they are on official visits to third countries. i voted in favour of this important text because it is a good report.
in writing. promoting the protection of human rights defenders is, in my view, a key mission for the european union, and that is why i welcome the adoption of this resolution. human rights defenders do invaluable work, but too little recognition and appreciation. many of them are also persecuted, threatened and subjected to violence by oppressive regimes or in their own countries. the issue of emergency visas is therefore seen as an indispensable measure to protect those who are mobilizing daily and risking their lives to promote human rights in the world. in addition, it was essential to highlight the too often overlooked role of corporations in the repression of human rights defenders by providing surveillance technologies to these regimes; and this text does that in a commendable way. finally, i hope that catherine ashton, as well as all the commissioners responsible for these issues, will take account of the recommendations of this text, by meeting with human rights defenders when they travel to third countries, so that they can benefit from better visibility.
in writing. this is the amendment of existing directives to simplify the procedures for the issue of securities. the objective of this update is to reduce the burden on companies to the minimum without compromising investor protection and the proper functioning of the securities market. i think that this report is a good way of achieving such a balance, and i have therefore supported it.
in writing. the purpose of this regulation is to implement the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct) on a bluefin tuna catch documentation programme, which have been in force since 11 june 2008. this draft documentation programme lays down rules on traceability of all bluefin tuna caught, transferred, fattened, slaughtered, landed and exported to the union, rules on the verification and validation of catch documents and a model bluefin tuna catch document (bcd). i voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be balanced and which is the first fisheries regulation adopted under codecision following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon extending the powers of the european parliament.
in writing. the transposition of the measures advocated by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas on the capture of bluefin tuna is a positive development. it is not enough, however. it does not make it possible to combat illegal fishing effectively and will therefore not allow the population to be renewed. today there is an urgent need to organize the break. this is unthinkable without recognising the efforts made by small-scale fishermen and without compensating them financially for their forced inactivity.
in writing. although members of the european union since 1 january 2007, romania and bulgaria do not yet participate in the schengen information system (sis) which allows for enhanced cooperation between customs, police and judicial authorities of european countries. however, these two states have made great progress and now fulfil the conditions for such integration into the system. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which allows romania and bulgaria to access the sis, an important step towards full entry into the schengen area and thus the future abolition of border controls.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, approving a council decision stating that both bulgaria and romania meet the data protection criteria required to join the schengen information system. an evaluation working group has verified that the sis branches in bulgaria and romania ensure sufficient levels of data protection and has produced a positive assessment, paving the way for further testing before the end of the year.
in writing. i do not wish for the bulgarians and romanians what i do not wish for my own people. the schengen information system does not provide the necessary guarantees for the protection of personal data. its expected evolution to a second generation system strengthens its security slope. it will allow the retention of totally subjective data such as the presumption of terrorist intent. moreover, the idea that this data may be shared with the united states is not excluded. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. while the greek case clearly reflects the lack of quality budgetary statistics in the union, it seems to me necessary to strengthen the role and independence of eurostat, in particular to enable it to carry out unannounced inspections in the member states in order to verify statistical data. these are the demands of this resolution, which i have therefore supported.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 17 june 2010 on the quality of statistical data in the union and the enhanced powers of the commission (eurostat) in the field of verification. it is established that the commission (eurostat) has, so far, lacked the necessary investigative powers to improve the quality of european statistics. recent events have shown that a well-functioning statistical system is essential to obtain reliable data; whereas the political will to respect common rules and to make real progress towards stronger statistical governance has so far been lacking. given that the european commission is not independent of the member states which propose the commissioners who make up it, i suggest that the european court of auditors be given a role in auditing economic and financial information from the member states to give that information reasonable assurance of quality, reliability, sincerity and fairness.
in writing. as if the greek crisis were due only to statistical errors, the commission uses it as a pretext to make eurostat the policeman of the union's figures. it thus considers that the wisdom of eurostat's experts is the last bulwark against the allegedly rogue states which would seek to conceal information. member states should therefore accept that this commission body validates their calculations, monitors their management and inspects their data. the receipt of assistance from the structural funds could even be made conditional on the transmission of these statistics. this text is in the same vein as the one which would oblige the member states to have their budgets validated by the commission, which was validated on 7 june 2010 by the council. it imposes a loss of sovereignty on the member states and a distrust of democratically elected governments as opposed to the commission. this goes beyond the powers delegated to the commission by the treaties and is unacceptable. i shall therefore vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i share its main points: it recalls that equality between women and men is one of the objectives of the european union and must be taken into account as a fundamental principle in the responses to the economic and financial crisis. it also called on the european institutions and the member states to adopt clear objectives and to propose binding measures to combat the gender pay gap.
in writing. the just struggle against inequalities must not lead to the destruction of the natural differences between men and women. personal freedom is part of a social framework to be protected, the family being the cornerstone. the family, consisting of a man and a woman, equal in dignity and complementary parents, must remain the model and motherhood must be encouraged. the crisis is moral before it is economic, and it is on this level (through education and respect for human nature) that we will achieve equality between men and women. these own-initiative reports are a waste of energy for our parliament which wants to interfere in everything for ideological or political reasons, but never does anything effective. the figueiredo and romeva i rueda reports cannot be supported, especially since the eu is not the appropriate framework for dealing with these problems.
in writing. we must insist that gender equality is one of the answers to the current crisis. in this context, there is an urgent need to set a binding and ambitious target for women's employment and to achieve equal pay for men and women. a sanctions mechanism should also be set up against states which are still too timid in their actions in favour of real equality between male and female workers. without such measures, the idea of gender equality will remain a pious utopia. i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. the ilda figueiredo report is an own-initiative report on the evaluation of the roadmap for equality between men and women for the period 2006-2010. this roadmap identifies six priority areas for action to achieve greater gender equality: strengthening women's economic independence, reconciling private and professional life, equal representation of men and women in decision-making, eliminating violence against women, eliminating gender stereotypes, promoting equality in third countries. i naturally share these objectives, but the report proposed by mrs ilda figueiredo, in wanting to list certain measures, is often too excessive, which could be counterproductive for the cause of gender equality. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. a new strategy for equality between women and men must be put in place and we must draw the consequences of the failures of the past roadmap, which was particularly weak in reducing the multiple discriminations to which women are still too often subjected, on the grounds of their sex, age, disability or ethnic and religious origin. i particularly supported an amendment calling for transsexuals to have access to sex change and to be reimbursed by public health schemes, and an amendment to include the fight against discrimination on the grounds of gender change in this new strategy. the rights of transgender people are as important as those of other citizens, and the european commission must take this into account.
in writing. i have unhesitatingly supported this resolution, which acknowledges the lack of transparency in the activities of players' agents within the european union. the activity of players' agents is subject to different and often incomplete national regulations because of its cross-border nature. it therefore justifies the adoption of a coherent policy in the union to avoid loopholes in unclear regulations and to ensure adequate monitoring and control of the activities of staff. parliament set out several objectives, in particular the establishment at union level of a licensing system for staff and a register, as well as an effective system of control and disciplinary sanctions.
in writing. following up on the report i co-authored with ivo belet in 2007 on the future of professional football in europe, i supported the european parliament's resolution calling for an initiative by the european union to regulate the activities of agents of professional players.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution today because it strongly condemns the israeli attack on the humanitarian flotilla to gaza and demands an international and impartial investigation to shed light on this murderous attack. it is a firm stance which shows our common desire for justice to be done, and i welcome that. for too long europe has been an economic giant, the main provider of development aid to the region, but a political dwarf, unable to weigh in on the israeli-palestinian conflict to make peace possible. today, thanks to the persistence of the socialist group, parliament is expressing a clear and strong european position for the immediate lifting of the blockade of gaza, which has led to a real humanitarian catastrophe. europe must take its responsibilities. it must play a decisive political role in order to finally achieve concrete results with a view to the creation of a viable palestinian state.
in writing. following the military operation on the humanitarian flotilla to gaza on 31 may 2010 - which resulted in the death of 9 civilians, the injury of 38 civilians and the injury of 7 israeli soldiers - the european union, and in particular the european parliament, must strongly condemn this tragic violation of international law and demand a prompt and impartial international investigation into this attack. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted for the european parliament resolution on the israeli military operation against the humanitarian flotilla and the blockade of gaza because i want the european union to send a strong message by demanding the lifting of the blockade of gaza and condemning the disproportionate use of violence by the israeli army. i also thought it was important that meps and the various institutions of the european union should adopt a unanimous position to give weight to this condemnation.
in writing. the european union, and in particular the european parliament, had to react by condemning israel's military and murderous operation on 31 may against the humanitarian flotilla; and to a greater extent, the blockade of gaza. i am particularly shocked, as are many european citizens, by this israeli attack, which has once again violated international law, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which, among other things, calls for the establishment of an impartial and independent commission of inquiry into this attack and encourages the resumption of the peace process between israel and palestine, which is necessary for stability in the region.
in writing. this text calls for the immediate lifting of the blockade of gaza. that's what he's all about.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the resolution on the israeli attack on the mavi marmara flotilla. the resolution presented, in my view, a wrong view of the facts and unbalanced demands. it seems to me necessary to await the results of the inquiry before attempting to pass judgment on the mavi marmara case. we must, of course, deplore the loss of human life, but above all we must objectively and reasonably analyse the decisions, actions and circumstances which led to this tragedy. there is no doubt that israel has made political and military mistakes, but it must be remembered that a naval blockade is a legitimate and recognized measure under international law in the context of an armed conflict at sea. this blockade, which was put in place to contain arms trafficking in this war-torn region, was forced, defied by the same flotilla which is now being presented to the world as the victim of an unjustified israeli assault. only reasoned dialogue can advance negotiations between israel and gaza. in the context of this dialogue, europe must take a nuanced and calm view, free of all unjustified partisan passion.
in writing. i naturally voted in favour of this resolution which calls in particular on all member states to contribute to the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and to supervise technical assistance to third countries to prevent it from being diverted to produce goods to be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. it is regrettable that council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment has not been implemented by all member states. i find it unacceptable that some people have not hesitated to allow the export of articles that could be used for torture to countries that do not respect human rights. it was therefore urgent to bring them to order by adopting this resolution. the member states should be encouraged to contribute to the promotion of human rights in the world and to monitor more closely the international trade in instruments of torture, rather than taking part in it. i think that sanctions should be taken to dissuade them from doing so. in addition, this resolution rightly calls on the commission to update the list of instruments of torture, since these instruments are constantly evolving. i therefore voted in favour of this text, but i think we need to go further.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution against the trade in goods used for torture. while it is welcome that there has been a community regulation on international trade in certain goods liable to be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment since 2005, it is now clear that there are serious shortcomings both in its scope and in its implementation: firstly, many member states have not communicated - or even introduced - sanctions for violations of this regulation, and do not submit any annual activity report, although mandatory; second, it is time to address the lack of oversight of export criteria for the products concerned and to address courageously the issue of currently exempt goods transiting through the eu; finally, the list of prohibited articles should be extended (it does not currently cover certain so-called 'police and security' equipment, such as pointed sticks, wall or floor restraints, foot restraints, handcuffs for wrists and fingers, or certain electric shock stunning devices worn on the body).
in writing. the opening of the transatlantic air 'market' serves the general interest. it increases competition between airlines to the detriment of airline employees. it increases air traffic at the expense of the ecosystem. it contains no real guarantee regarding the protection of personal data (pnr) which the united states registers at will to the detriment of the rights of european citizens. this resolution, this machine for deregulation which is characteristic of everything that foreshadows the future great transatlantic market, i am voting against.
in writing. the first railway package, which was adopted in 2001 and contains three directives on the development of community railways, licensing of railway undertakings and allocation of railway infrastructure capacity, railway infrastructure charging and safety certification, was intended to revitalise the railway sector as a first step towards creating an integrated european railway area. however, according to the commission's latest report on the monitoring of rail market developments, the share of rail in transport has not increased but has only stabilised at a low rate of around 10% in the rail freight market and at less than 7% for passenger transport. in this resolution, which i have supported, parliament therefore calls on the member states to implement the railway package more effectively and on the commission to ensure that it is properly implemented.
in writing. today's resolution does not take the problem in the right direction. it is not because the member states have applied the first railway package badly or not at all that this sector is experiencing difficulties or malfunctions, but quite the opposite. the liberalization of network activities has of course led to a pure profit-making logic and to the disorganization of the sector. in france, high-speed lines and services are preferred to slower or regional services. prices have gone up. but the needs and expectations of users are, in many cases, totally neglected to the point that the schedules are inadequate. anyway, they're getting less and less tight. the network is maintained accordingly and deteriorates on many lines, at least those that are not closed. in britain and belgium, this logic is partly responsible for railway accidents. similar problems are already arising for users in the electricity and postal sectors. you're forced to regulate phone rates because of the abuse. don't you think it's time to stop charging?
in writing. the liberalisation of the railway market, imposed on member states by the 2001 directives, has not led to an improvement in service for citizens. the infrastructure is deteriorating because of insufficient investment. but should we condemn the states which have chosen not to dismantle the historical operators to the point of rendering them ineffective? this resolution is a proof of the ideological stubbornness of the liberals, far removed from common sense and reality. i can only vote against.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank my socialist colleague hannes swoboda for his proposal to include france in the scope of this resolution, following the floods which took place this week in the south of the country and which claimed the lives of more than 25 people. given the scale of the material and human damage caused by these floods in central europe and france, it seems logical to me that the european union solidarity fund (eusf) should be released as soon as possible and used effectively to help rebuild the damaged areas; that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. but to do this, a new regulation on the eusf is also necessary, because access to the fund is currently subject to a procedure that is too long and complicated. similarly, i believe that a large proportion of other european funds should be devoted to projects for the prevention of risks and natural disasters, with a view to sustainable land and habitat development, use and management, in order to respond effectively to the new climate challenges.
in writing. the report says that it aims to create a common european judicial culture. but such a culture is not imposed from above, in the confusion of powers. it is necessary to be blinded by the eurocratic atmosphere to believe that it can be created without an independent legislative power. until this parliament is one, advocating a common judicial culture is a total denial of democracy. what this europe needs is a citizen-led re-foundation of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the european commission to present a proposal for a regulation on the legislative, administrative and financial framework for european aquaculture as soon as possible, in order to consolidate all the european union provisions relating to the aquaculture sector into a single text.
author. - mr president, the assassination of floribert chebeya bahizire, executive director of the human rights organisation la voix des sans-voix, when he had just been summoned to the police, and the disappearance of his driver, are unfortunately quite symbolic of the human rights situation in the congo. one might also wonder why mr. chebeya's family can't even have access to his body. mr chebeya was known for taking a stand against the congolese leadership. he regularly denounced to ngos, to the media, the dramatic development of the situation in the congo. countless journalists and human rights activists are threatened, arrested, tortured, murdered in this country. pascal kabungulu in 2005, franck ngycke and his wife hélène mpaka, serge maheshe in 2007, didace namujimbo in 2008, to name just a few examples among the many victims. better still, if i may say so, while the icc issued an arrest warrant for mr bosco ntaganda, the congolese government has rewarded him with a promotion. at the same time, the economic and social situation in the country continues to deteriorate. a climate of civil war is reigning in a part of the country: massacres, mass rapes, the enlistment of child soldiers are, if i may say so, part of the landscape....unless i am mistaken, mr president, i have two minutes...mr president, excuse me, but i have two minutes to speak...
author. - mr president, i apologize for what i said earlier, but i was really convinced that i had two minutes. the european union and libya signed last week a memorandum of understanding called the 'national indicative programme' covering the period 2011-2013, with €60 million for the development of human resources in the health sector; the commission is also proposing to establish a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of the environment. this memorandum of understanding was signed on the sidelines of the seventh round of negotiations with libya, in which, excuse me, the european union is making a fool of itself in the eyes of the international press, particularly the european and african press. we all know that libya is a hub for immigration to europe, but we all know the terrible fate of those men and women who flee poverty and persecution in the hope of finding refuge in europe. hundreds of them were imprisoned, executed, and suffered the worst of mistreatment. worse, hundreds of them were simply abandoned in the middle of the sahara desert with no food, dying of hunger and thirst. in reply to a question last week from one of my colleagues on this subject, mr füle said, and i quote, that he would go there with the libyan minister of the interior to see what was going on. i think that is an intolerable response. we know how much mr. gaddafi knows how to play with western democracies. our swiss friends have just paid a heavy price for it. the latest provocation was the closure of the unhcr office on the eve of the seventh round of negotiations. libyans do the dirty work for european governments, most recently in italian territorial waters. commissioner, how far are we going to go in the negotiations with libya? mr barrot told us that no agreement on migration could be reached until libya had ratified the geneva convention. can you tell us, commissioner, exactly what is the status of the negotiating mandate given to us...
in writing . since the resumption of dialogue with the libyan authorities in 2003, the latter have been sending alarming signals to the european union and the international community. our resolution is the latest in a series of excesses by an authoritarian regime which has made no significant progress in respecting human rights, democratizing the state or modernizing the judicial system. the execution of 18 people on 30 may 2010 is yet another sad demonstration of the libyan authorities' refusal to respect the rights and values to which the european union is most attached and on which it was built. the closure of the unhcr office, arbitrarily ordered by these same authorities, is confirmation of their contempt for international institutions. it is therefore necessary to make it clear to libya that the european union will not endorse this kind of foreign policy which seeks to discredit international law and to use international democratic forums for propaganda purposes only. in this context, the european parliament must be fully informed of the state of the eu-libya negotiations so that we can assess the acceptable level of cooperation with libya and demand changes and progress that will restore mutual trust.
president of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have no major problems with certain criticisms. i have a problem with the general approach, so i'll explain. when i was here in february, when we were talking about the outcome of the first informal european council, there were strong doubts whether we would succeed in creating a financial support plan for greece and whether that country would be able to take the necessary steps to correct what went wrong in the past. yet, a few weeks later, we adopted a €110 billion plan and greece made an effort of at least 10 percentage points of gdp to correct the budgetary pull. we didn't believe it, but it happened. if we had said a few weeks ago that we would be creating a potential bailout of 750 billion, of which 500 billion would come from europe or the european union in general, we would not have believed us, but it has happened. some have said: 'the mediterranean countries have a different culture, they are not capable of taking any real reform measures, it is a waste of effort!' when i see what is happening in these countries now, in painful circumstances - which no one is happy about - i say that there is a profound cultural change. i hear criticism about the climate, when the european union has the most ambitious climate programme in the world. we even gave a legal basis to our 20-20-20 program. everyone is jealous of us. but when i hear the criticism, i feel like we're doing nothing. it bothers me. i am not saying that we should sin with a kind of happy optimism, but what bothers me is that every achievement is considered "too little, too late" and superfluous. when i look at the results of the last few months, i am also pleased with the positive effects of our action. we're talking about better governance here. of course the euro has helped us a lot in the financial crisis! i cannot for one moment imagine what the consequences of this financial crisis would be if we did not have this common currency at our disposal for 350 million people! (applause) i would like to thank i cannot imagine how unstable our situation, especially monetary, would be if we had not had the euro. we would have gone back to the crisis of the 1930s with competitive devaluations and this fatal policy of beggar my neighbour. we have not reached this stage thanks to the monetary stability of the euro. of course, there are problems, there are differences within the euro area, and we have to address them. i wasn't there for the first ten years of this century. i was somewhere else. but who, in this house and outside, in all kinds of institutions, even in the study departments, has pointed out the very serious problems of balance of payments and competitiveness? not many people. now we're doing the trial of the past. we have to correct the shot. it's our collective responsibility. for the euro to be a stable currency, economic development and economic policy must be more convergent and we must put an end to divergences in both development and policy. that's the work we're doing. we talked about the sanctions. i still believe that there are many other ways than sanctions. governments don't act primarily out of fear of sanctions. but since we are talking about sanctions, we in the task force will work on the implementation of sanctions, not only in the corrective branch, for those who are above the 3% deficit, but also in the preventive branch, for those who are below the 3% threshold but who do not respect their medium-term plans and whose debt is too high and does not move in the right direction or at a sufficient pace. we will therefore introduce, to the extent that the treaty allows us, sanctions that go beyond the stability and growth pact we have now. we'll introduce them into the preventive branch and reinforce them in the corrective branch. we cannot invent sanctions that have no basis in the treaty. i can't help it. we should have thought of that back then! we shall also introduce, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, because there are none, mechanisms to correct imbalances, particularly between balance of payments and differences in competitiveness. this is the first time we've ever worked on it. we haven't done anything yet. we will innovate with this task force on the basis of the ideas and initiatives or proposals that the commission will be making to us in the next few weeks in the crucial area of competitiveness. i therefore reject this inverted euroscepticism which says that when there are results, plans, programmes and intentions, they are demolished in advance. we are making progress in the governance of all the institutions, step by step, in a gradual way, but we will get there, i am absolutely certain. as for financial supervision, of course we are discussing it in the european council. we're also talking to the finance ministers. and here in the european parliament we can also talk about it. it's not a sin. it's not in a bad spirit, it's not to lecture anyone, but we have to talk about it. i'm not doing cartoons. we could say: 'these are the council's proposals, it is just coordination', and we would sweep everything away. this is caricature, and i'm not participating in the caricature. i am simply saying that in this crucial area - there are others in the financial world too - we must be able to work together, the council - it is not even the european council - and the european parliament, to ensure that the new institutions can start on 1 january, which is the deadline. we need it badly. and even in the financial field, europe is leading the way. do you really think that the g20 will applaud if the member states of the union, president barroso and myself propose a bank tax? you really think we're gonna clap? here, too, we are innovators, we are pioneers. do you really think that when we talk about the financial transaction tax, we'll get applause? we'll be pioneers there too. so in a lot of areas -- the environmental area, the financial area, and other areas -- we are taking bold initiatives and we will also defend them globally. on certain issues, such as the bank tax - as has also been said in this house - if there is no agreement at world level, we will act at european level. some member states are already taking initiatives and i am proud and pleased that, when i was prime minister, my country was practically the only one and the first in europe to take the initiative of a tax on banking institutions. i listened to you, i heard you, but i say that my approach is a positive one. some of you are encouraging us to be more positive while criticizing us. i have no problem with that, but i would like to stress what we have managed to do in extremely difficult circumstances, in the first three or four months of this year, and we will continue. i am also sure that in a few months' time some of those who are critical now will, if not applaud us, nevertheless prove us right. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. − mr president, regarding the specific question that was put to me in terms of the financial supervision package: this financial supervision is indeed a flagship of european reform because the whole set of new arrangements depends on the new architecture. for instance we have proposed that the credit rating agencies can be under the oversight of one of those new institutions. that is why it is so important to come to an agreement on this supervisory architecture that the commission has put forward as a proposal following the report that i asked the high level group chaired by mr de larosière to present to us. i would like once again to thank the european parliament for being very supportive and for your ambition. this has helped us to make sure that the council moves from its december position on some key points, some points that have been considered very important by the european parliament. but now everyone needs to compromise and this is the important question to address in the european union. because if we always stay at the position of considering that others are not doing enough we will not move forward. we need a compromise. and i believe that a deal can be done and that it will follow in many areas the european parliament’s concerns, for instance on key issues like certain products and transaction bans to protect consumers, dispute resolution powers for the authorities that include addressing direct decisions to financial companies – this would be a big move for the council and the commission supports it – and principles for the resolution of crisis and deposit guarantee schemes and a very comprehensive and strong review course. i think there is already an opportunity to close the deal in the coming days. tomorrow there will be a trialogue that is very important. things will not get easier if there is a delay. most likely some of those reservations will become entrenched, and it will become even more difficult. but i think that it is not in the interests of anyone who wants a real european architecture to postpone it, if only because – let us be frank – a full second reading will make it almost impossible to have the new authorities operating from 1 january 2011. so – that is why urgency is so important here – the idea is to have the new system start in 2011, with the new european 2020 strategy with the newest possible economic governance and hopefully with a lot already done in terms of financial service regulation supervision. that is why i would like to ask you to listen to me, as i have of course asked the president of the european parliament – this was immediately after his very interesting contribution – and also the member states. i once again ask the european parliament, in the spirit of compromise, to make an effort to achieve it. of course the commission has made the proposal so we are very happy with it but the community method is also about compromise. the community method is not just about stating positions, it is also in the end about compromise. (interventions from the floor by rebecca harms and guy verhofstadt saying that the council should make a proposal)that is why the commission is urging the council to move. we have tabled an informal full compromise text today and will continue to put friendly constructive pressure on all the parties to come to an agreement.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european council, fortunately the 2020 strategy has retained the objective of reducing poverty. our concern is that budgetary consolidation strategies here and there go too far and undermine the basis of poverty reduction by undermining the way public services are financed, which is an absolutely key element of such a strategy. on the subject of economic governance, mr president, it is not a question of criticizing everything the european council does. it is a question of starting a fruitful debate, and in this connection we have two or three important proposals to make to you. the first is that, as you said, macroeconomic issues, imbalance issues are major today. my great fear, our great fear, is that a debate which begins by hammering on the need to strengthen the conditions for the application of the stability pact will satisfy some and exhaust the raw material of what the discussion should be today, namely the tools, methods and capacities to reduce those divergences which today undermine the solidity of the euro area and which allow citygroup to consider that the euro area should no longer be seen as a whole. the second question, which is also essential for us, is that of sanctions. as you said, we must not only punish those who are in deficit, but perhaps we should also think about intelligent sanctions. for example, have we ever thought of asking a country in difficulty to raise certain taxes, and the proceeds of those taxes to be paid into the budget of the european union? there are other avenues than the abolition of the right to vote or the abolition of the structural funds. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european council, you have all no doubt heard the absolutely appalling words of the chairman of bp, who said: 'i want my life back'. i have the impression that there are governments in the european council at the moment who would like to pretend that there was no crisis and who want their lives back. they come to us and say, "we're going to keep the supervision we had before. there wasn't that much going on. we can therefore water down mr de la rosière's proposal, which the commission had adopted, and we can refuse what the european parliament is asking for because, in the end, what happened was only a very small crisis and we do not need to go very far.' however, this is not the position of the european parliament and i would like everyone to take responsibility here. in december 2009, the ecofin council unanimously adopted a position that blocked any possibility of discussing codecision. on the day of the ecofin council, the coordinators of the four groups in the econ committee told the council that it was not going well. then for months, we were told, "maybe you'll shut up". then, on 10 may, the econ committee voted a demanding text. that is where we are, mr president, and we have no intention of accepting a discount agreement. we also want institutions to exist on 1 january next, but institutions that work, community institutions where common rules are decided on jointly for financial services and financial institutions, a system which is not based on the good will of the states and especially not a system which gives veto rights to member states which, obviously, do not want financial supervision at all. so we're willing to compromise, but we're not willing to compromise with people who don't actually want to get it done.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european council, you have just told us that the position of the europeans must be firm and unified in order to reach the g20, and that the union's credibility on the international scene is at stake. the first thing that is at stake is its credibility in the eyes of the public, who expect the union to be able to provide itself with credible instruments to overcome the crisis. firstly, i expected the conclusions of the european council of 17 june to treat the union's budgetary discipline, macroeconomic surveillance and financial services regulation in the same way. clearly, this was not the case. secondly, after having clearly lacked internal solidarity in the face of the crisis, the european union has a duty to be the leader in getting out of it. let us be frank, economic and monetary union suffers from a design flaw, which creates an imbalance between monetary and economic policy, while the euro now represents 27% of the world reserves of central banks. this creates an obligation for the member states and the eurogroup to ensure coordination of national economic policies. the euro must not be a symbol of the high cost of living for our citizens, and our duty today, following these progress reports, is no longer simply to reassure the markets. it is to reassure citizens of our ability to get out of the crisis together. thirdly, the tightening of budgetary discipline in these times of crisis must not worsen the recession. we want proof, proof that the 2020 strategy will indeed be accompanied by sufficient financial means to develop, but also to orient the economy towards future spending, employment and towards solidary and fertile investments. we must listen, mr president, to the warning that is expressed today in anger, and soon in fear. the union must not become a symbol of brutal austerity, as it is associated with unjust liberalism.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we have already discussed this at the conference of presidents: many groups are divided on this gallo report and, obviously, all the groups still need to discuss it because there are problems, contradictory points which the groups have not been able to resolve. that is why we are asking for the debate and vote on the gallo report to be postponed until september, september ii or ... we shall have to see that at the conference of presidents. so it's a very simple thing. since the fruit is not ripe, let's let it ripen in the summer and discuss it in september.
mr president, of course these texts are imperfect. of course, there are members who would have liked to see this or that change. but, ladies and gentlemen, this text is a great step forward for disabled people, because how many times have we heard the sad stories of disabled people who were refused access to public transport? well, that's the end of that text. this text put an end to the discrimination suffered by disabled and sick people. no more restrictions on access. let us consider what this text means, which is a real step forward! and i am not talking about the excellent provision that the people on board must be trained in disability. this is also a major step forward for disabled people. so we must stop talking about the integration of disabled people. we must do this, and this text does, and i think we should welcome it. with this text, europe is making a real difference to the lives of people with disabilities. the rapporteurs are to be congratulated. that's what i'm doing on behalf of the disabled. let's not waste our pleasure.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the somewhat scathing title of mr sterckx's report reveals a very important issue which goes far beyond the administrative and technical framework to which that title refers. this is a major political choice: to make the maritime transport sector more attractive, more efficient and more competitive, which in our view is a sector of the future and the most environmentally friendly mode of transport. the excellent report by mr sterckx and the contribution of all the fictitious rapporteurs make a significant step in this direction. in our view, the objective has been achieved: with this directive, the shipping sector will be more harmonious, more coordinated and simplified. we shall therefore support this report unreservedly in the vote, even though we would have liked more speed in implementation, even though we would have liked more voluntarism in establishing a common language in this area. the compromises reached with the council are nevertheless acceptable. we shall therefore support this report wholeheartedly.
mr president, i should first like to thank mr sterckx very warmly for the work he has done and also congratulate him on the outcome of the negotiations with the council. the text to be voted on in plenary represents a major step towards the creation of a european maritime area without barriers. it contributes to the competitiveness of maritime transport, with the european added value needed in these times of crisis, and at the same time promotes an environmentally friendly mode of transport. the compromise reached with the council is ambitious. it not only aims to simplify the administrative formalities for ships entering and leaving ports, but also harmonizes them. in addition, it will significantly facilitate the exchange of information through the safeseanet interface. as regards the delicate question of language, which has been raised several times, i think that the compromise provides an appropriate solution. recital 7a emphasises the importance of facilitating written and oral communication without imposing a single language, even if one language should be recommended as the common language. in the present situation, the position of a single language would not have taken account of all the specificities and, in some cases, particularly in the case of a shared language, different between the interveners, could have had adverse consequences. i welcome the compromise reached with the council. the possibility of adopting this text after parliament's first reading will allow the measures envisaged to be implemented very quickly, thanks to the request made by mr sterckx.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to warmly thank our rapporteur, mr mathieu grosch, for the excellent report and, above all, for the excellent courteous and efficient working relations we have had. our group is fully satisfied with the objectives and principles of the report. i shall not go back to the important and thorough debates on convenience, coordination, the completion of the internal market, decarbonisation, and, in addition to all the other aspects, the debate on safety, the distinction between safety and safety, the importance of sanctions, particularly cross-border sanctions, which are all fundamental objectives for the future european transport policy we are calling for. but at the same time, this report was not a prevert inventory - and that is to be welcomed - since mr grosch and his colleagues agreed to focus on objectives which were both quantified and ambitious, and more than a report, i would like to say that we are dealing with a real strategy. it is therefore important that our assembly, our parliament, adopt it, as in committee, by a very large majority, so that we can put ourselves, not in a position of strength in relation to you, mr commissioner, but in any case, that we can put ourselves in a position to be able to firmly define our priorities on this important transport issue, which is, as mathieu grosch has reminded us, the basis of the forthcoming white paper, and which we hope will be adopted very soon. this is an opportunity which we must seize to develop this comprehensive, integrated and transversal policy to meet current and future challenges and to consolidate a genuine european transport policy so that it becomes a leading community policy. i would remind you that 10% of the european union's prosperity depends on transport in europe and that more than 10 million people are employed in this sector in some way or another. i'll put two ideas to you. the first idea i have is that of taking into account the overall environmental impact of each mode of transport, and i do not want to stigmatise one mode over another, but i would like to have more information on the overall impact and ask the european investment bank to direct its financing towards transport companies that are greening their means of production.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate our colleague mr iturgaiz on his work. i agree with the contents of the report, which i shall not go into. however, i would like to emphasize two important points raised by the rapporteur. first of all, it is important to inform our citizens about the difference between the citizens' initiative, the process of filing a petition with the european parliament and the role of the european ombudsman. there is still too much confusion about what each one's mission is. secondly, when i go to meet the citizens in my constituency, i find that they do not even know that there is a right to petition the european parliament. how can we make sure that citizens are aware of this and can use the resources available to them? to this end, it is absolutely essential that the european parliament should have better communication tools. do you realize that there is currently no website to clearly explain how to file a petition? similarly, there is no information available to petitioners so that they can follow, live, the progress of the petition they have submitted to parliament. this lack of transparency is inexcusable. more visibility is needed to make citizens aware that we are on their side. our committee exists and works for them, and we listen to them. the european parliament must do everything in its power to remedy this communication gap and to highlight the work that has been done, which is certainly not legislative but no less important. the citizen must be at the heart of our concerns, and our committee is trying to achieve this objective every day.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if there is only one message to be taken from this, it is that full-rate indefinite contracts must remain the norm. i would first like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to the preparation of the report for their cooperation. i am disappointed today that a subject like this, which is at the heart of the 2020 strategy, has not been discussed. several of my colleagues would have liked to have spoken on this subject, but they have not had the opportunity. however, i would urge them to make their contribution in writing to the services of parliament. i am also disappointed that after working hand in hand with all the political groups to reach agreement, after many consultations, an alternative resolution almost identical to my report has been tabled by the green group. the two elements which mrs schroedter adds in the alternative resolution cannot be supported by my group and were rejected by the committee in the vote in committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals on the subject. the report also states that we want a better definition of selfemployed people, but the criterion of non-independence must be clear and not a presumption of the employee. the definition proposed by the greens is far too vague and does not add any value to the text adopted in committee. secondly, the call for a directive to guarantee equal rights to all workers, including the right to join a trade union, regardless of their professional status. i do not understand exactly what rights are involved and what prevents employees or the selfemployed from joining a union. i think that it is unnecessary to call for such a directive and that it is outside the community's competence. in my report i wanted to make full-rate permanent contracts the norm and to condemn the abusive substitution of atypical forms of contract for regular jobs. i would remind you that the principle of flexicurity implies not only flexibility in order to be able to adapt to the needs of the labour market, but above all job security, one of which must not be at the expense of the other. the european union must step up its investment in skills and training to support sustainable employment. the unemployment rate in the european union remains far too high and atypical contracts therefore have their place in the labour market. for young people, the atypical contract may, for example, be a first experience on the labour market. if the atypical contract can give young people a chance and encourage a job through a permanent contract, then i say yes. for people who are faced with a long period of inactivity, here again, if the atypical contract plays a transitional role towards returning to the labour market, then i am in favour of this form of contract. finally, if the atypical contract is used as part of a transition from one job to another or from one occupational status to another, once again i say yes, because the main thing is to keep the person in the labour market. i will also stress the fundamental role played by the social partners and civil society organisations in the development and implementation of employment policies. i call on all member states to involve them fully, because their interventions vary far too often from one member state to another. finally, their social and institutional recognition must be strengthened. with this report, the european parliament is sending a strong signal to the governments of the member states and to the commission. the security of career paths is a sine qua non of social europe. the ball is now in the court of the european council, which i hope will uphold the spring 2010 council resolutions on employment. the european union needs clear guidelines and concrete measures to safeguard employment in our regions and create new prospects under the 2020 strategy.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here to give an account of the spanish rotating presidency during the last six months. when i appeared at the beginning of that period, i explained to the honourable members that there were two major objectives at this political time. the first of these was the implementation, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the treaty which seeks a more perfect union of europe. the second major objective, directly linked to the ambition for ever greater unity among europeans, was to achieve, in order to restore the economic situation, a much stronger economic policy union, which would address the imbalances in our economies and put the european union in the best possible position to become competitive and maintain the welfare state. those two have been the big targets. i can assure you that, in implementing the treaty of lisbon, the spanish rotating presidency has faithfully served to ensure the new institutional balance, to strengthen the new institutions which europeans have given themselves through the treaty of lisbon: that is, the presidency of the european council, a presidency called upon to strengthen european representation, to ensure the continuity of political programmes within the european union, and the high representative, intended to strengthen common action in the field of foreign policy. the new institutional balance also had a fundamental aspect in the spirit and the letter of the treaty of lisbon: the aspect of the new role of this parliament, the aspect of an advance in the powers of representation of european citizens. we have tried, mr president, at all times during these six months to be faithful to the letter and the spirit of the lisbon treaty: with this parliament, with the new presidency of the council and in a dialogue that is always fruitful, always positive, always easy to put into practice, with the european commission. i would like to remind this parliament that, in the spirit of the treaty of lisbon, the defence of the community institutions, of the community method, is the great guarantee of the essence and progress of the european union. this strengthening and co-responsibility with the community institutions has always been present in spain and in the spanish government. if the spanish rotating presidency has learned anything from the experience of the lisbon treaty, it is that we need the more the better, the greater the role of the major community institutions in action and co-responsibility on major european issues. i told you that the economy - the economic crisis and the desire to put in place a common economic policy, a greater economic union - had certainly been a fundamental objective of the european presidency. and i want to emphasize that we have generated in this period very strong results. there has been a substantial advance in economic governance. the most obvious proof is that new instruments have been put in place to deal with difficult situations: new cooperation instruments hitherto unheard of in the union, such as support for the problematic situation of sovereign debt in greece or the financial instrument for stability approved by the council, by ecofin, and put in place by the 27 countries of the union. in addition, in this period, as you know, we have adopted a common strategy for growth and employment up to 2020. we have been cooperating in this strategy by supporting the commission. a more ambitious strategy for our competitiveness, for innovation, for job creation, for social inclusion. a strategy with a new governance. lisbon had the governance problem, the europe 2020 strategy is called upon to strengthen new operating principles to guarantee both the objectives of the union as a whole and the particular objectives of each of the countries. at the same time, we have consolidated a new perspective for the stability and growth pact, the details of which are still to be developed. a new approach to ensuring compliance with the stability pact in a more demanding way, with new criteria and with new mechanisms for prevention and guarantee by the european institutions. we have also made it possible during this period to make a decisive contribution to the implementation of this package of new financial regulations. we know that the crisis had a financial origin, not within our borders, but in the united states. we know that it had a great impact on our financial institutions and today we can say that the financial supervision aspects have been practically improved thanks to the decisive intervention of this parliament and that in a few months we will have a new regulatory framework, financial supervision, covering all financial products, guaranteeing solutions to crisis situations and having many more mechanisms for preventing what may be systemic risks. and in that vein, i should also welcome the european council's decision to strengthen confidence in european financial institutions by publishing the 'effort tests' of our banks. this formula for transparency will undoubtedly restore some of the trust that has been called into question during this period. in short, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, substantial progress has been made in economic union. i should simply like to remind you that in two fundamental areas, which have been the subject of debate during this period, particularly as a result of the economic crisis, and which have been the subject of profound political, public and inter-european debate, progress, in my view, must be definitive. the first concerns the strengthening of the stability and growth pact, both in its preventive and corrective arms, both to apply incentives and sanctions, as the spanish rotating presidency has advocated from the outset, and the second concerns macroeconomic surveillance to develop indicators to assess competitiveness and imbalances in the context of coordinated action. as regards the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, i must stress, as i did at the beginning of my speech, the institutional balance. as the first rotating presidency since the treaty of lisbon, i must say that we have made a good treaty. that is a better treaty. it is a treaty that seeks the most perfect union. but it is a treaty which requires a great deal of political will. political will of the 27. the political will of the 27 governments to give the president of the european council the responsibility he has, to give the commission more and more initiative and, of course, to recognize the already decisive and crucial role of the european parliament. and if the treaty of lisbon is above all the way to a more perfect union, the more perfect union of europeans will not be real, it will not be visible, if we are not recognised from the outside. the road to a more perfect union therefore necessarily involves a foreign policy, a foreign policy with more unity every day, a foreign policy with more common spaces every day and with a strengthening of that single voice which many europeans want europe to have in the world. so let me briefly refer to the steps we have taken towards that objective of strengthening foreign policy. the first of these is that the rotating presidency has fulfilled the mandate of the european council by adopting a political decision on the european external action service in april. on 21 june this parliament, the council and the commission reached a political agreement on the launch of the new european external action service, on which parliament, in plenary, has to decide, precisely at this part-session, and i hope with a positive result because, without a doubt, it is a new pillar, relevant to that common foreign and security policy which we want. at the same time, our presidency has actively supported the high representative for foreign affairs, who has been involved in the preparation of the summits with the commission and the council, numerous in this period - with russia, japan, pakistan, canada, morocco, latin america and the caribbean - which have produced important results in trade agreements that strengthen the economic position of the european union, open up prospects for many latin american countries and undoubtedly widen the already powerful cultural, economic, political and social links between the european continent and latin america. we have also strengthened neighbourly relations. we have held a summit with russia and, although we have not held a summit with the united states as was originally on the agenda, i must remind you that we have reached agreements of great significance with the united states in this period: agreements on the fight against terrorism, agreements of great legal and political significance such as the swift agreement, in which this parliament has also played a decisive part - a not easy subject - and on which it will have to give its opinion in plenary during this part-session. and so too is an agreement of economic importance, signed on 24 june, on air services between the united states and the european union, known as the 'open skies agreement', which will create a common transatlantic aviation area covering 60% of world passenger traffic. in the mediterranean area, which is also one of the areas of greatest sensitivity for the european union, as you know, the presidency, in agreement with the institutions, decided to postpone the union for the mediterranean summit, presumably until november, in view of the conflict situation in the area and in the understanding that the attempt to hold the union for the mediterranean summit at that time, in june, could have been a risk of failure for the union itself and that we will certainly have a much more favourable time, a more facilitating time, for the role that the union for the mediterranean must also play, which is to contribute to dialogue in the middle east. i would point out that under our presidency cooperation policy came to the european council for the first time in a specific debate in this high institution and that, in matters which have had a great deal of public significance, a great impact because of their devastating capacity, such as the earthquakes in haiti and chile, the presidency, in coordination with the commission, the member states and the high representative, has had a significant presence in the effort of cooperation and solidarity. the negotiating process with croatia has made significant progress, with the closure of three chapters and the opening of five. chapter 12 has also been opened in respect of turkey. the negotiation process for the association and stabilisation agreement with serbia has been unblocked, so that today all the balkan countries are involved in the process of european integration and the european perspective of the balkans has made significant progress. the opening of negotiations with iceland, approved by the last european council, after the reservations of some member states had been overcome, is also very good news for iceland and shows that europe is still growing, that the european union is still a major attraction for all the neighbouring countries and, therefore, a major project of stability and progress for the world. i would like to conclude, mr president, by briefly mentioning some of the initiatives directly linked to the enlargement of the european union in the field of citizenship. we have taken steps to launch the citizens' initiative, as is well known; its implementation, through the negotiation that must be carried out with this house, will be a strong commitment to citizen participation in the process of european construction. we have unanimously approved the mandate for the union to accede to the european convention for the protection of human rights, which was a major priority of the european presidency, and we have taken steps to combat gender-based violence, in favour of equality, through the creation of the european observatory, or by promoting the drafting of the directive on a european protection order for victims of violence against women. we have also approved the 2010 stockholm programme action plan and the internal security strategy. we have also carried out the first evaluation of the european pact on immigration and asylum and have also adopted new rules on organ donation and transplantation and the directive on crossborder healthcare. in short, important aspects which have a direct bearing on the interests of europeans as an extension of their rights and as a greater participant in the process of shaping the european political will. i shall end with a brief reflection, mr president. we have tried in these six months to face the institutional changes which necessarily required a response of political height, generosity and commitment. we have tried to face the consequences of the serious economic crisis in these six months, to build confidence and unity among europeans, and we have committed ourselves and worked during these six months to strengthen europe's projection and presence in the world, convinced as we are that this project has more strength and more vitality than when it was born, with such enthusiasm and with such a horizon for europeans, convinced that, with the treaty of lisbon, we can make europe regain a great world leadership in political stability, as an example of democratic functioning and also in economic strength, in competitiveness and in maintaining the social model. i would like to thank the european parliament for its cooperation, mr van rompuy, president of the european council, for his exemplary sense of responsibility and leadership, and i would like to congratulate the commission on being in its place, on maintaining the community spirit and on being belligerent in its defence, even though it is sometimes difficult for governments. but that is what it means to make europe, to have a europeanist interest and to know that this is the true way. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the spanish presidency and the last six months have been a very special moment for the european union. firstly, it has been a time of profound transition, with the recent entry into force of a new treaty, which has given this parliament new strength, established a new relationship between the european council and the rotating presidency and created a new commission thanks to the support of this parliament. and above all, it has also been a time of great stress for the european economy, especially for the euro area. a crisis that has presented us with new challenges and demanded new responses. so far, we have passed this test. we have shown that we are capable of taking unprecedented measures to ensure financial stability in the euro area. we have thus maintained the basic principles of solidarity and responsibility, approved the rescue package for greece, established a €750 billion stabilisation mechanism and started to strengthen the economic governance of the european union to avoid and prevent future crises. today i would like to pay tribute to spain and to its very positive and successful presidency of the council, which took place in a very difficult and special context. president rodríguez zapatero's strong personal commitment to europe and to the community spirit and method has been essential in addressing these challenges. the efforts made by all the spanish authorities have also been crucial. so, many thanks. i am particularly pleased that we have worked together to achieve important results during these six months, giving the european union an agenda for a new smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and taking key decisions to stabilise and strengthen the economy in the european union. with the adoption of the europe 2020 strategy, we have for the first time established a comprehensive approach combining smart budgetary design with structural reforms, enhanced political and economic coordination and the reform of our financial markets. europe 2020 is our agenda for the european social market economy in the 21st century. it will help to mobilise all instruments at all levels to promote job creation and exploit new sources of growth. the spanish presidency has been instrumental in driving this agenda forward and, in particular, in reaching agreement on the five main objectives proposed by the commission. those goals are important. they give europe 2020 a political message that everyone can understand and that no one can oppose: employment, education, innovation, environment and social integration. i would like to stress in particular spain's support for reaching agreement on the objective of combating poverty. many expressed doubts about the relevance of setting such a target at european level. i believe, however, that we have shown with this agreement that the social dimension is an indispensable part of our common project. our objectives have a catalytic effect. they communicate well and are well directed. they also provide us with a structure to drive and monitor progress. the european council in june gave the member states and the institutions the tools to put europe 2020 into practice, notably through the seven flagship initiatives and the national reform programmes. the next challenge for all of us is to ensure that this translates into real results. together with the european parliament the spanish presidency has also brought significant progress in the area of financial regulation. i said 'progress', bearing in mind the positions of the council and parliament only six months ago. however, i did not say "breakthrough". yes, we are on the verge of an agreement on the financial supervision package but we must not lose this momentum. i call on all member states and all members of this house to take their full responsibility. the target date of seeing the new system up and running by the end of the year is not just for practical convenience. it is a critical political signal. all three institutions must now make decisive moves to seal the package before the summer break. i think it would be very difficult to explain to our partners in the g20 that we, who were the first to start this process, are not able to be the first to complete it. the presidency rightly placed great emphasis on the implementation of the lisbon treaty's new instruments and i would like to highlight in particular progress on two important files. the first is the european citizens' initiative. this will be a very concrete and tangible expression of the lisbon treaty's aim to strengthen direct democracy in the european union. the commission strongly supports the objective of putting it in place as quickly as possible. we have been quick to make our proposal after an extensive consultation involving all relevant stakeholders. i welcome the fact that the council, under the guidance of the spanish presidency, has now formulated its position and is able to enter into discussions with parliament, which of course has a particular interest and legitimacy in this matter. secondly, during the spanish presidency the council agreed negotiating directives for the union's accession to the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms. this is a powerful expression of our values and of the commitment to uphold human rights and the rule of law. finally, i would like to commend the spanish contribution in promoting the external dimension of eu policies. the presidency has helped prepare an unprecedented number of summits with europe's strategic partners in the world. i would like to mention in particular the remarkable results of the latin america and caribbean summits, where the conclusion of negotiations with the andean community, the signing of the peru and colombia agreements and the relaunch of mercosur negotiations took place. i would also like to mention particularly because it took place for the first time the summit with morocco. it is also important to mention here the crucial contribution of the spanish presidency to the conclusion of the negotiations on the eu-us agreement on the terrorist finance tracking program. thanks to its efforts and those of commissioner malmström, we now have a text that takes into consideration the european parliament's specific concerns. i know this house is going to debate mr alvaro's report today, and i hope that new compromise and debate will bring us to a positive vote by the parliament next thursday. spain has also made an invaluable contribution in setting up the european external action service. thanks to its efforts, the commitment of baroness ashton and the help of the european parliament, we now have a political agreement which i am convinced will bring a successful external action service on track. the service, as it is designed, will articulate well with the work of the parliament, council and commission on external relations. i therefore strongly believe that the agreement deserves the support of parliament. discussion has also brought us a long way on the necessary amendments to the staff regulations and the financial regulation, where the council and parliament are now ready to enter into the full codecision process. it goes without saying that parliament will play its full role in deciding the amending budget for 2010 and adjudicating on the amending letter for the 2011 budget, which the commission will submit after the summer break. in the meantime, the high representative, vice-president of the commission, will have the political support she needs to put the service in place. the spanish presidency can look back with satisfaction at a number of important achievements in times of economic, social and institutional change. during the last six months, when europe has been faced with unprecedented challenges, spain has shown once again its seriousness and its european commitment in holding the council rotating presidency. it has made every effort to show that europe works and delivers, tackling the issues of concern to our citizens head-on. but there is no room for complacency, and we have to continue to build solid foundations for the future. the european commission is working on this objective with full speed, together with the parliament, the european council and belgium, which now holds the rotating council presidency and which receives from spain a solid record of achievement. to spain: thank you, muchas gracias. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the ppe group. ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, the spanish presidency of the council of the european union has tried to find its place in a new institutional context, between the new actors of the president of the council and the high representative, and the rise of the european parliament as a fully-fledged european co-legislator. at the same time, this presidency has come at a time of major economic difficulties for europe, with the euro crisis in greece and growing social unrest, as in spain, which has almost 5 million unemployed. in this context, a number of steps have been taken: the creation of european financial stabilisation mechanisms, progress in the regulation of financial markets - and i ask you, mr prime minister, to continue along the same path towards these regulations - or the preparation of the european external action service. but it is difficult to attribute the credit for these positive measures to any one rotating presidency, presidency of the european council or parliament, which, however, have suffered several setbacks or delays, as you have pointed out. i am thinking in particular of the cancellation of the summit between the united states and europe, which was a missed opportunity to revive a much-needed transatlantic partnership. my group hopes that the european council, at the september summit on strategic partnerships, will make up for lost time and advocate the establishment of a transatlantic market, which is certainly a serious way forward for generating growth and jobs on our two continents. ladies and gentlemen, the scale of the challenges we are facing requires us to send signals of confidence to europeans, and not just to the markets: confidence in our common capacity to innovate and to undertake, confidence also in europe's capacity to regain competitiveness and hence growth. to achieve these results, each of our member states must play its part and learn from the best practices of its neighbours. but for the concert to be harmonious, it needs a conductor, and that conductor must be european. my group expects european leaders to send a message of unity and trust and to organise themselves accordingly. my group also expects the community method to prevail over the intergovernmental method, the limits of which have been shown by the present crisis. mr president, as you said, we intend to maintain the same very strong attitude towards this community method even after the spanish presidency. these are the challenges facing the belgian presidency, to which i would like to recommend, as i would to all of us, humility but also efficiency. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i'm not gonna make a comment about football. i know you're all so smart. i just want to say it's sad that ghana is out. we're all right with that, right? i'll take that. i wonder how this compares with the statements being made today, namely that we are all satisfied. we're giving speeches in the window. progress is being made, progress is being made, and somehow i have the feeling that, except here, in this room, no one is noticing. so you can tell me that this has something to do with the fact that we're not communicating well enough right now. no, that's not the problem! the problem is simple, we must face reality. the reality is that we are deciding on 2020 but are unable to provide a penny for the seven or eight flagships. this isn't gonna work! i can already see the council saying that we will reduce the european budget because of the crisis, which means that you can enter 2020 already. we always say we want growth, growth, growth. yes, but what growth? and if you want growth, you can't just get growth by saving. we need a european fund. yes, but it must be a fund for solidarity and investment. where is europe today talking about investment? where? where? i haven't heard it once in all the speeches! yes, you have perfected the stability pact: more sanctions that will not work if you do not stimulate the economy. then you can pronounce as many sentences as you want, it won't help! to have positive economic growth, that is, sustainable growth, green growth, you also have to invest in certain areas. i haven't heard anything about it today. not a word. i want to say one more thing about swift. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. there must be a judicial authority that monitors the requests of the american people to see if the request is legitimate or not. now comes the agreement you praise, and that is europol. i didn't know europol was a judicial institution. this is new! an american cop asks a european cop if that's okay, and you think a european cop is going to tell an american cop that's not okay? that's bullshit, because the police have to work together! they can't control each other. there is no legal system that allows the police to control another police. so swift as it stands does not meet the requirements of the european parliament as we voted on it here. you should say something about it, and not just praise it because it's not the truth. mr prime minister, based on your experience of the rotating presidency, i believe there is an institutional problem. i believe that after six months... i must see after the next presidencies. i do not believe that, as lisbon has defined the institutions, the rotating presidency and the permanent presidency can function. there is a real problem of dysfunction. we should have the lucidity to discuss this problem in the future.
mr president, i thank sophia in 't veld for her speech. at least she has made it clear why she voted in favour, because from the start, with the speeches from both the major groups, i have heard nothing but smoke screens. the reality is that this agreement is not significantly different, at least on the main points which prompted the european parliament's opposition in february. there's always bulk data transfer, there's always five years of data retention. there is still no right of appeal for european citizens on american soil and there is the very essential question raised by mr tavares on europol. europol is not a judicial institution, and i am not saying that, the texts and the treaties are. the european and national data protection supervisors all agree on these key points. i have the feeling that after having - as you say, mr de clerck - bombed the torso, we are now bending the back, and that is not good news for the citizens of europe. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i would like to congratulate the commission on the outcome of these difficult negotiations. this agreement is in line with the demands made by parliament a few months ago. the us authorities have agreed to introduce many data protection safeguards which were missing in the previous agreement. the effectiveness of such data transfers in the fight against terrorism has been highlighted on several occasions in recent months. but now it is time for the union to have its own mechanism to combat the financing of terrorism. i welcome the commission's expressed desire to move forward in this area and i invite it to propose concrete actions as soon as possible. finally, the swift case gave parliament the opportunity to exercise its new powers under the lisbon treaty. the member states, as well as our partners in third countries, now know that they must work hand in hand with our assembly in adopting these agreements. the content of the agreement reflects this new institutional situation. our concerns were heard and reasonable responses were found.
in writing. the paris convention regulates the frequency, quality and organisation procedures of international exhibitions. the rapporteur, whom i supported, asked that those member states which were interested in this convention and which had not yet acceded to it should do so as soon as possible. this is a question which seems to me to be very important. the paris convention can only be signed by states and not by the european union. it is therefore essential that as many countries as possible sign this convention. this convention will enable the new signatory states to engage, as others have done before them, in the dissemination of innovation and thus contribute to the education of european citizens.
in writing. i strongly support the adoption of this agreement, which provides for the application of the 'prüm decisions' to iceland and norway. although these two states are not members of the european union, they are nevertheless part of schengen cooperation, which means in practice that no internal border controls are carried out between these states and the other states of the schengen area. this situation fully justifies the increased involvement of these states in crossborder cooperation with a view to combating terrorism and international crime effectively. the agreement will enable the norwegian and icelandic authorities to cooperate more actively in these areas by implementing the two 'prüm decisions', which provide for the exchange of information on dna profiles, fingerprint data and vehicle registration records.
in writing. i vote against this crossborder cooperation agreement between the european union, norway and iceland. it allows the exchange of data collected according to criteria as vague as arbitrary, such as the suspicion of terrorism or participation in large-scale demonstrations. the right to freedom of opinion is being violated once again under the pretext of security.
in writing. shadow rapporteur for the adle group on this dossier, i voted in favour of this report which will allow the participation of switzerland and liechtenstein in frontex. the frontex agency was set up in 2004 to enable operational cooperation between member states in the management of external borders. for reasons of efficiency, it is important that all the states associated to the schengen agreements participate.
in writing. i voted in favour of the arrangement laying down the detailed rules for operational cooperation between switzerland and liechtenstein in the activities of the frontex agency. operational since 2005, this agency has the heavy burden of coordinating cooperation between member states in the field of external border control. the expansion of the number of countries participating in frontex actions is therefore a welcome initiative as it will further strengthen the operational and budgetary powers of the frontex agency. the geographical situation of these states will require them to participate more in the strengthening of controls at air and land borders rather than at sea. strengthening border control at these borders is one of the major challenges facing the union in view of the considerable number of irregular crossings of land borders each year. of course, under this agreement, this participation will be on a voluntary basis, but i very much hope that the forthcoming revision of the regulation establishing the frontex agency will force member states to cooperate more in the management of our common external borders.
in writing. i am voting against this report. the european parliament also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated. the only consequence of frontex's 'european patrols against illegal immigration' is that migrants are being pushed to take more and more risks to reach our shores. only a policy of equitable distribution of wealth, ending the epa method, would put an end to these migrations of hunger. the europe of permanent competitiveness which the liberals and social democrats are building for us is only increasing them.
in writing. the karas report is part of the european response to the greek crisis. improvements in economic surveillance and governance are more than necessary today, in particular to address the market distrust that remains a burden for greece and the european union as a whole. the report therefore aims to strengthen eurostat to avoid a repeat of the greek case in the future, and more specifically the erroneous statistics. i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the european commission's proposal is acceptable at the moment but that it is also the minimum of additional surveillance that can be accepted. in addition, the rapporteur rightly advocates the prospect of closer cooperation between the european commission (eurostat) and the european central bank, all while respecting the role and independence of the two institutions.
in writing. the current crisis is not due to statistical inaccuracies but to the dogmatism of the liberal elites who govern. the report calls for full respect for the stability and growth pact. it encourages the introduction of unannounced controls on state budgets. it has turned suspicion into political doctrine by calling for sanctions against states that falsify their statistics. the european project cannot be confused with this authoritarianism which denies popular sovereignty! it is high time to build the europe of solidarity, cooperation and shared trust that we need.
in writing. i welcome the report on the european union strategy for the baltic sea. the concept of the macro-region provides concrete answers to many contemporary challenges that transcend national borders. the baltic sea strategy is the first attempt at a macro-region. it will enable different territories, but facing similar problems, to undertake joint actions within a flexible institutional framework. this macro-region will not be a competitor of the states, but a complement. it will be based on the principle of partnership between the various levels of public authorities, the private sector and the voluntary sector. this new form of governance will undoubtedly add value to local, national and european policies. the concept of macro-region is worth applying to other territories marked by strong economic, environmental and cultural interdependence. the rapporteur rightly points out that the baltic sea strategy is a pilot project which can serve as a model for future macro-regional strategies. the atlantic arc should, i think, be at the heart of the thinking on these future strategies. because of the common problems facing the coastal regions of brittany, cornwall, galicia and the algarve, among others, the creation of an atlantic macro-region will contribute to a common and harmonious development.
in writing. encourage cooperation between the baltic sea states to protect the area and to address common economic, social, energy, transport and other challenges. yes, why not, although it seems to me that this cooperation could very well be achieved without the intervention of the european commission. but, to be honest, the main thrust of the report is the promotion of the macro-regions as an additional, and perhaps in the future, unique, 'level of governance' of the european union's 'cohesion' policy. this cohesion would consist in the aggregation of regions on both sides of frontiers, if possible in the form of european groupings of territorial authorities, these groupings being called upon to have legal personality and to choose "sovereignly" the national law governing them. and so much so that it is necessary to seek or invent common interests to which the regions can be grouped, and to create a european tax to finance all this. whatever the rapporteur says, anything is possible to abolish national frontiers and to rearrange the european landscape. that is why, beyond the interest that the baltic sea and its problems may inspire, we voted against this report.
in writing. the report's only merit is that it calls for the cleanup of the baltic sea. this cleaning is necessary for the preservation of our ecosystem. it must be carried out as soon as possible. however, this text is marked by the same dogmatism as most of the reports submitted to our vote. while he claims to be environmentally responsible, he cites the development of nuclear power in the region without condemning it. the commission's stated intention to create highly competitive european macro-regions is completely unacceptable. the aim of these measures is once again to dismantle the welfare state. the rehabilitation of the baltic sea cannot be the rehabilitation of liberalism!
in writing. it should be noted that the european union's regional policy is the main european factor of economic recovery since, as the report points out, it is the most important community source of investment in the real economy. but it is important that the economic recovery of our regions is not only immediate, but also medium- and long-term. that is why the kratsa report, for which i voted, is aimed at tackling structural problems, particularly those relating to competitiveness and employment. today, all actors in our regions are affected by the crisis. small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, are finding it increasingly difficult to use microfinance and microcredit. strengthening the attractiveness of our regions is therefore a fundamental objective which will eventually allow for increased investment, if necessary, in our regions.
in writing. cohesion policy is an important source of funding for europe's regions and as such plays a key role in tackling the economic and financial crisis. i agree with the rapporteur that objective 2 is of particular importance. while the structural funds must give priority to helping regions whose development is lagging behind, other regions must have access to financing adapted to their problems. since the 2006 reform, objective 2 has contributed to strengthening regional competitiveness and employment, with €54.7 billion of funding for the period 2007-13. this investment in the competitiveness of regional economies is all the more relevant in times of economic crisis. it is through an effort of innovation, research and development that the european union will be able to regain and stabilise sustainable growth and skilled jobs. in the context of the debate on the european financial perspective after 2013, it is essential that the european parliament reiterates its commitment to objective 2. cohesion policy must remain a strong and well-funded policy, and i therefore stress the need to preserve the financial means of objective 2. this is essential to facilitate the convergence of all european regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou on the contribution of eu regional policy to the fight against the economic and financial crisis. as the community's main source of investment in the real economy, eu regional policy can make a decisive contribution to the european plan for economic recovery. as much as €55 billion has been earmarked for business support measures under the european regional policy for the period 2007-13. this aid is essential - especially for smes, which have been greatly weakened by the economic crisis - and must be increased. investment in research, development, innovation and education must also be strengthened to support economic growth and employment in our regions - i am thinking in particular of the south-west constituency of france, which i represent. finally, the eu's regional policy will only be truly effective if there is genuine cooperation between local, regional, national, crossborder and european public authorities.
in writing. the report aims to improve passenger rights in bus and coach transport, an ambition which i welcomed with a positive vote. i have therefore advocated greater convenience in these transports for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, and greater guarantees for all passengers, not only in the event of accidents but also in the event of delays or cancellations. however, i thought it best to abstain on amendment no 14. although it provides for the possibility for member states to grant a derogation from the application of the regulation in respect of scheduled urban, suburban and regional transport services, i believe that it does not go far enough and still imposes too many constraints, particularly in the area of assistance, which would be detrimental to small and mediumsized enterprises. this was a second reading vote. the important thing now is to reach an agreement with the eu council so that this regulation can enter into force.
in writing. in recent months, the commission has focused its attention on consumer law, in particular that of passengers of all modes of transport. it cannot, however, treat the bus and coach sector, which is mainly composed of smes, as an airline or railway company is treated, or impose obligations which are proportionately more stringent and much more costly for a small company, which may not survive, than for a large multinational. the enormous gap between parliament's very dogmatic amendments and the more pragmatic compromise reached in the council is also significant. i also think that there is a fundamental inequity in the strictness of the proposed accident obligations for companies which are by definition 'captive' to european territory, while airlines or shipping companies are governed by international agreements which allow them to disconnect compensation from the damage actually suffered, as the tragic case of the rio-paris flight tends to prove.
in writing. bus and coach passengers should enjoy rights similar to those already granted by european legislation to air and sea passengers. bus passengers cannot and should not be the only ones who are not protected by community regulations. this is the key message i wish to convey by voting for this text, and i deeply regret that a common framework for all modes of transport could not be agreed. in particular, i voted in favour of the many amendments which aimed to introduce greater liability for carriers in the event of loss or damage to baggage and especially in the event of injury or death of passengers. in particular, i strongly supported the proposals to consolidate the rights of disabled people and people with reduced mobility, their accessibility to transport, but also their information in accessible formats, because we have a responsibility in this area. i am disappointed that a compromise could not be reached with the council, which has shown very little inclination to move forward. but if this is not an easy subject, we must have a european framework to protect the rights of these passengers and the conciliation will lead us, in the autumn, to discuss this again.
in writing. i voted in favour of the cancian report on passenger rights in bus and coach transport. this regulation is essential in terms of protecting the rights of travellers, since it lays down european rules on the information to be given to passengers before and during their journey, assistance and compensation in the event of interruption of that journey, or specific measures for persons with reduced mobility. the council has clearly departed from the ambitious approach adopted by our assembly at first reading, and today we are confirming our determination to reach a major text and are moving slowly towards conciliation. in this context, i am particularly pleased that we are sending a clear signal to the council by adopting today all the amendments relating to the liability of carriers, whether it be compensation for loss of or damage to baggage, or compensation for injury or, even more tragically, death of passengers. i am sure that the council has taken note of our determination.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft regulation on the rights of passengers travelling by sea or inland waterway as i believe it is essential to increase these rights for my fellow european citizens. the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility must be strengthened, in particular, through this report and the dynamic of protection of travellers within the european union. i also appreciate the fact that this report takes account of exceptional circumstances which, although they are extraordinary, can cause serious problems for travellers when they occur. the report is designed to facilitate assistance, re-routing, reimbursement and compensation for passengers in such circumstances. this was a second reading vote. the important thing now is to reach an agreement with the eu council so that this regulation can enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted for the alaya sender report on the rights of passengers travelling by sea or inland waterway, because i believe it is important that these passengers enjoy the same rights and guarantees as air passengers. whether in the event of delay, breakdown, loss of baggage or, more seriously, accident, carriers must assume their responsibilities and passengers must be protected and, where appropriate, properly compensated. i welcome the adoption of specific provisions requiring transport companies to accommodate disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility and to train their staff accordingly.
in writing. this report aims to accelerate the deployment and interoperability of intelligent transport systems (its) in road transport at eu level. i am always concerned about improving territorial cohesion within the union and i believe that this directive will be a step forward in this direction. i therefore supported it, especially since the directive as adopted by the parliament's committee on transport deals with the question of the protection of personal data in a balanced way. i hope therefore that an agreement will be reached with the council at second reading, because this is a directive which can only strengthen the confidence of european citizens in the transport of the european union.
in writing. i voted enthusiastically in favour of this text because it encourages the development of so-called 'intelligent' transport systems, i.e. the use of new technologies in the field of transport. these systems will allow better monitoring and management of road traffic, as well as greater safety and security for road users. they will make road transport safer and cheaper, as well as reducing congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. in this respect, the adoption of this text represents a major step forward for the european citizens, who will be the first to benefit from the arrival of these new transport technologies, and i welcome this.
in writing. i voted with conviction for the adoption of this legislative resolution, as it provides for the simplification of the administrative formalities applicable to ships entering or leaving the ports of the member states. i am glad that it was adopted by an overwhelming majority: from now on, ships will no longer be subject to complex and repetitive administrative formalities; a standard form will be established, as well as a new electronic system which will allow information to be shared quickly and easily between the ship and the port authority. this text represents a major step towards the creation of a large european shipping network without barriers, which i have been calling for for many years.
in writing. three factors are making it necessary to reflect deeply on the future of the european transport system: the enlargement of the european union to 27 member states, our environmental responsibilities and our commitment to passenger safety. this is the subject of this report, which i think is relevant on at least two levels. first, the notion of 'efficient co-modality', which affirms complementarity and not competition between different modes of transport. secondly, the need for sustainable transport, which requires us to work towards a decarbonisation of transport, as well as the development of intelligent transport systems. i nevertheless supported the amendment tabled on paragraph 32, which introduced the concept of a european transport fund. it seems to me that an independent fund dedicated to transport would risk undermining the coherence of cohesion policy, 60% of which is allocated to transport. the organization of the structural funds must be considered in a concerted and comprehensive manner in the context of the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. the report on a sustainable future for transport is a positive signal for an efficient and integrated transport europe. without an acceleration of the mutual recognition and authorisation procedures for rolling stock, market access will continue to be time-consuming and costly. less road transport, more rail, river and sea links for freight, a protected and protected environment - these projects paint a picture of an ideal europe. but the reality is a little different. all these projects are lagging behind due to lack of political will, coordination between member states and funding. clearly, there is a lack of collective ambition. the european union will face many challenges by 2020: the european commission's forthcoming white paper on european transport policy for the next ten years is an opportunity to develop a comprehensive, integrated and transversal strategy to meet the challenges of the years ahead. the resolution we have just adopted is a strong signal to the european commission, a first step in this strategy, and it wants to give transport its place in european policies.
in writing. the report calls for safer, more efficient, less polluting transport - nothing but the very agreed and very obvious. however, several points caught our attention and prompted our negative vote: - the usual focus on co2 emissions with binding quantified targets, while only passing mention is made of sox and nox emissions from maritime transport, with all the other ecological virtues; - the proposal to create a european road transport agency, whose relevance is more than questionable, given the criticism of reduced efficiency, high costs, and the haphazard management of many of the existing multiple european agencies; - the proposal to create a european fund for transport, and therefore additional expenditure, without specifying how they will be financed - and, the reaffirmation that the solution to all the problems would come from a greater liberalisation of the road sector and the expansion of cabotage, in particular. it is well known that this liberalization has had negative effects, particularly on the maintenance of existing railway infrastructure and thus on safety. we also know, or should know, to what extent the opening up of national transport to foreign operators poses problems of unfair competition.
in writing. this text does not provide the means to establish high social and environmental standards in the transport sector, which are admittedly indispensable. by placing itself in the context of the carbon market, by validating the possibility of an increase in air traffic, by advocating the resolute liberalization of this sector for greater competitiveness, this report nullifies any ecological requirement worthy of the name. by only being concerned with infrastructure and never with the wage conditions of the workers in this sector, it shows a social indifference which is a signature of the harmful liberalism which is killing the european project. i vote against it.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon has confirmed the right to petition the european parliament, which is truly part of a process of completing european citizenship. however, the persistent confusion between european and national competences and the competences of the european institutions underlines that european citizens are not yet fully aware of their rights. that is why, in voting for this report, i supported the introduction of better information on the petitions procedure. a european petition should enable citizens to share with parliament their concerns about the impact of the various policies and legislation of the european union on their daily lives. the report proposes a number of possibilities which seem to me to be sensible, such as improving the website dedicated to petitions on the parliament's portal or setting up a one-stop shop to provide guidance to citizens.
, in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because it concerns the 2009 activity report of the parliament's committee on petitions. the resolution also calls for the european parliament to be given the right to vote in the european parliament. it is therefore an instrument of democracy and citizenship. the main themes of the petitions concern the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market, and they come mainly from germany, spain, italy and romania. i welcome the progress made in implementing the recommendations of the ep's committee on petitions to improve its work, but also the proposals made to allow european citizens to exercise this right better, such as the request for simplification of procedures, and in particular the possibility of introducing a petition via the internet. one small regret: french citizens rarely use this procedure.
in writing. the economic recession which has affected the whole of the european union has exposed young people more than ever to the risks of poverty, and in particular unemployment. the precarious situation of young people has an economic cost, but above all a social one. this own-initiative report was intended to identify the current difficulties and to propose some solutions. in particular, it calls for the development of economic and political investment in job creation, education and training, the strengthening of social security systems, the dynamisation of the labour market and the promotion of decent work. i fully agree with these objectives and have voted in favour of this report. of course, it is not just a matter of loudly stating these objectives, but it is now necessary to conduct a real economic and social policy at european level in order to improve young people's access to the labour market.
in writing. more than 20% of young people in europe are now unemployed and many others are in precarious jobs without social protection. the proliferation of traineeships makes young workers vulnerable and is a vector of social dumping against other employees, by exerting downward pressure on wages and by substituting for normal jobs. the turunen report calls on the commission and the member states to take action to make access for young people to quality work placements and jobs a priority and to guarantee them decent incomes. it is unacceptable that some states provide for a lower minimum wage for young people. the report also calls for the creation of a 'european youth guarantee' which gives every young person in the eu the right to be offered a job, an apprenticeship, further training or a job combined with training after a period of unemployment of four months, and for the development of a 'european quality charter for traineeships' including standards for their maximum duration, minimum allowances and social security benefits.
in writing. 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25, or nearly one in five young people, are now unemployed, not counting those in precarious jobs. the young people under 25 are the first to be affected by the current economic crisis. the training policy for young people must therefore be ambitious in order to enable them to acquire skills more suited to the needs of enterprises: more traineeships and apprenticeships must be organised, but it must also be ensured that they are of good quality (the content of the traineeships, the duration of the apprenticeship, the allowances paid to the trainee, etc.) in order to protect young people from possible abuse by employers. despite its limited 'social' powers, the european union must therefore promote a mobilization in this field, and that is why i voted with conviction in favour of this resolution which proposes some ways of dealing with the difficult situation of european youth.
in writing. given the many difficulties faced by young europeans unemployment, wage, financial and social insecurity , it was urgent that the european parliament act more firmly to remedy this situation. that is why i voted in favour of the report by mrs turunen, because i believe that it contains many guarantees for the protection of european youth, such as the drawing up of a 'european quality charter for apprenticeships', the creation of a minimum income for every young person and the introduction of the 'european youth guarantee'. even if not all the proposals will be binding, i believe that young europeans need to be taken into account more effectively in the policies of the union, because they represent the future of the european union.
in writing. young people should not be unemployed for more than four months, and i agree with that. the report on youth employment proposes a 'european youth guarantee' to enable young people to benefit from a decent income and quality traineeships. in view of the worsening unemployment of young people in the outermost regions, and particularly in réunion, i fully support any measure to promote the integration of young people into the world of work and to combat their precariousness. if the right of every young person to be offered a job, an apprenticeship, further training or a job combined with training after a period of unemployment of up to four months is a matter of proclamation, concrete measures must now follow from this report by parliament. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague emilie turunen, whose aim is to propose answers to the difficult situation of european youth, faced with unemployment - which currently affects one in five young people under 25 according to eurostat -, precariousness and abuse by employers. the training policy for young people must be ambitious and enable them to acquire skills adapted to the needs of enterprises so that they can more easily integrate into the labour market. there is a need for more traineeships and apprenticeships, which develop and improve these skills, and for companies to be encouraged to increase the opportunities they offer young people. it is also important to ensure that the quality of the food is good. as such, the establishment of minimum standards for the educational content of traineeships and apprenticeships would contribute to this. extended to the length of the vocational training period and the level of allowances paid to trainees and apprentices, these standards would also help to protect young people from possible abuse by their employers.
in writing. i abstained on this report on youth employment which, despite some positive points including the adoption of some amendments which i had proposed in the committee on culture (creation of jobs in the social economy, fight against discrimination, rejection of the trivialization of traineeships, recognition of non-formal education, etc.) remains focused on flexibility (flexible and serious contracts) and the short-term needs of enterprises. it stressed the consequences of the massive unemployment of young people, also in the light of the crisis, but at the same time reaffirmed the continuation of measures to assist economic actors which had not proved their worth and had only led to an increase in the precariousness of young people's employment. in addition, the report remains faithful to the dogma of the 'modernization' of education; it even speaks of prioritizing cooperation between enterprises and 'educational service providers' and calls for early cooperation between schools and the world of work.
in writing. in these difficult times of economic crisis, our european social model must be more than ever the key to returning to growth. it should not be seen as a burden but, on the contrary, as a driving force for the progress of our societies. i voted in favour of the gruny report which aims to launch a broad european initiative for employment. the idea is to make it possible to set up a business anywhere in the european union in three days and at no cost. the formalities for recruiting the first employees could be carried out via a single interface, by strengthening the activation plans, especially for the low-skilled, by personalised advice, intensive training/re-skilling of workers and upgrading their qualifications, etc. i believe that preserving employment and creating new job opportunities for the youngest, but also for those who are on the labour market but are no longer employed, is the sine qua non for restoring the confidence of our citizens in our european social model. and it is this trust that is essential for our future, socially, economically and politically.
in writing. the supposed popularity of self-employment is evidence not of a new enthusiasm for business creation but of a deep discouragement of the unemployed in the face of the impotence or inefficiency of employment services. the precarious nature of contracts and employment is the consequence of policies to open up markets to foreign competition. this openness weighs on the level of wages and employment, which is almost the last adjustment variable left for firms in a world of unfair competition. the immigration policies currently being pursued in europe are also having an impact on the wages and employment conditions of the least qualified workers, as is shown by a large number of statistical studies. this is not to mention their disproportionate costs to public finances and thus their responsibility for public deficits and debts, and for the tax burden on european citizens. but ignoring all this, the rapporteur persists in a general political logic which leads to precariousness, unemployment and the proliferation of the working poor. he advocates flexicurity', knowing that in the world created by the european union, companies will inevitably only retain 'flex'. the unemployed and the working people should not look to brussels for salvation, quite the contrary!
in writing. i voted for the gruny report on atypical contracts, secure career paths, flexicurity and new forms of social dialogue because in recent years atypical forms of employment (part-time, shift work, etc.) have increased considerably and because workers need to be protected. the crisis must not be used as a pretext for the development of precarious work. all employees must be protected by labour law, regardless of the form of their contract. the report also calls on the member states to review flexicurity policies in a more protective way for workers, and stresses the importance of social dialogue and the social partners in tackling these issues.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because it is part of the promotion of flexible employment, flexicurity and their usual corollaries (employability, employability and adaptability and entrepreneurship). the resolution also aims to simplify the various types of employment contract, under the pretext of reducing the number of atypical employment contracts and facilitating transitions between different types of employment contract. while recognising the social consequences of the current crisis, including the increase in the number of poor workers and atypical forms of work, the resolution also deplores the failure of enterprises to develop new forms of employment contracts which offer sufficient flexibility to respond to crisis situations. in short, this resolution remains marked by a neo-liberal approach, the disastrous effects of which we have been able to see for many years in the field of employment and labour rights.
in writing. mr fernandes received my full support for his report on the european commission's green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union. i think he was right to consider all the issues, including prevention and recycling in the first place. biodegradable waste has a role to play in a broader issue, namely the fight against climate change. it is therefore essential to divert bio-waste from landfills, which are the worst long-term solution. on the contrary, as the report emphasizes, they should be used for composting or for the production of bioenergy. finally, the current management of bio-waste reflects a great diversity between member states. i am in favour of a single legislative act, as proposed in this report. finally, i would add that the management of bio-waste can support the social cohesion of the european union, since a recycling industry, for example, is a strong job creator.
in writing. i voted in favour of the green paper on the management of biodegradable waste in the european union. there is a large difference between the member states that recycle the least (90% landfill, 10% recycling and energy recovery) and those that have adopted the most efficient approaches (10% landfill, 25% energy recovery and 65% recycling). biodegradable waste plays an important role in the fight against climate change and offers interesting potential in terms of soil protection and the promotion of renewable energy production. member states should take measures to promote the separate collection of bio-waste for purposes such as composting. a genuine european market for compost must be created, because it is the most suitable treatment for green waste and has the advantage of being used to fertilize the soil. proper management of bio-waste would therefore have not only environmental but also economic benefits.
in writing. this text is in the right direction. the proposal to take waste out of landfills, to prefer composting to incineration, to ensure that incineration makes energy use of waste, is partly in line with the ecological planning we are advocating. i'm glad to hear it. however, the promotion of biofuels and the encouragement of the privatisation of waste management which he advocates are taking up the liberal trends without any regard for their failures. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament calls on the european commission to take action on the treatment and management of bio-waste i.e. waste from food and food preparation, green waste (garden, park, etc.), industrial waste (wood, etc.) , in particular by presenting a specific draft directive. the european parliament thus reaffirms a request made during the review of community waste legislation in 2008. the european parliament calls for the compulsory selective sorting of biowaste, the recycling of biowaste and the classification of compost according to its quality. the commission and the member states must take measures to make europeans aware of the environmental benefits of the treatment of bio-waste. this waste represents between 118 and 138 million tonnes of organic waste and therefore ends up, for the most part, in the collection of normal waste, whereas it could be recovered for different purposes. it is therefore urgent that the commission should take up this matter, especially now that, after the failure of the copenhagen summit, environmental problems are at least taking a back seat.
mr president, the eurozone is experiencing an economic decline unprecedented in its history, the lowest growth in the world, the highest unemployment and a continuing decline in its competitiveness. this total failure was made evident by the recent sovereign debt crisis in greece, which will soon affect spain, portugal, italy and france, with the result that the populations of these countries will be impoverished on a widespread basis. you promised convergence and harmonization of european countries. today you are hurrying us towards social and political breakdown. you alone bear the responsibility for this ongoing tragedy, for by imposing a single, uniform and totalitarian monetary policy on such divergent economies, you have encouraged unbridled speculation in some and economic atony in others. how can spain, which had a 2% budget surplus in 2007, now have a 12% deficit if the ecb's single and uniform interest rate has not encouraged unprecedented property speculation in this country covered with empty houses? the whole european banking sector is in fact being contaminated by this new subprime crisis, the consequences of which are frightening. the only answer you have is to continue to err when you have failed in everything, by increasing the grip and powers of the european union by upstream control of national budgets and by imposing an unprecedented policy of austerity on the peoples of europe. errare humanum is, perseverare diabolicum. it is the same as saying that the devil is a liar.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, the presidency is absent, and i think that at this stage we must look at where we have come from and what we have done in recent months. at the height of the crisis, all the players, whether governments, parliament or the commission, agreed that we needed strong and well-organised financial supervision in europe. since then the commission has done its job. she commissioned a report from jacques de larosière. this report, of high quality, has formed the basis of a package of texts which i believe correspond quite well to an initial level of ambition for setting up these authorities. parliament has also done its job and we voted in particular last may, in the econ parliamentary committee, for a demanding text which, taking account in particular of the latest developments in connection with the crisis in greece and in the euro zone, went even further than the commission's proposal. the council, for its part, has from the outset been scissor-sharp and has been keen to reduce the proposals made by the commission. the swedish presidency had unanimously concluded an agreement last december which parliament said on the very day it was signed was not satisfactory. the spanish presidency has worked hard in recent months but has not been able to close the gap, and here we are with a new presidency which has shown a lot of energy since last thursday, but has not been here for a long time. that is why parliament has agreed to take a somewhat complicated but easily explained approach to the citizens, namely to give the belgian presidency a chance without sacrificing anything in the way of substance. we are making a rather remarkable effort to say that we will vote tomorrow on the amendments to the econ text; there is a text from the parliament in plenary. we simply do not close the procedure at first reading in order to give our belgian friends a chance. i would like to stress the points on which i think the member states will have to make some moves for parliament to accept an agreement. firstly, there is the whole question of efficiency. this has been very well mentioned by previous speakers, and i would like to stress that there is a very remarkable agreement between the four main political groups, which allows us to move forward with a united front. we need these authorities to be european, to be able to decide at european level on a number of specific cases. it is not a question of replacing national supervisors, but when there is an emergency, when toxic products are on the market, when there is a breach of community law, when national authorities are in dispute, decisions must be taken at european level in the internal market. there's no need for a safety clause. in this connection, i would like to make one comment: against whom do the member states want to protect themselves when they provide for safeguard clauses against europe? as if there were a plot to get their hands on the coffers of the member states! this is all ridiculous. we need a system which works and in which decisions can be taken, without abuse, as mr giegold has pointed out, but without giving a kind of generalized veto to states which do not want to do anything. we also want these authorities to be brought together in one place for reasons of efficiency. we have made proposals and counter-proposals to which the successive presidencies have not yet dared to respond. i think that when we ask for such major adjustments on the part of employees as we are doing now, to say that the member states cannot consider transferring a few authorities to a single city is a great joke for our fellow citizens. a final point on all that concerns the information of parliament, the control of the authorities which we want to be independent. we want them to be independent, but because we want them to be independent, we also want accountability and dialogue with the elected representatives of the people to be possible. at that level, we also made requests. we also asked for a wider opening of these organs. a word to finish with about the united states. i'm always amazed when people tell us that the americans have the upper hand. and i notice that a number of governments have two-part speeches. first, we reject any federal state. we reject any new step in integration and we deplore the community method. and then, in a second step, we always compare ourselves to the united states. there comes a time when you have to take responsibility. i want a strong europe. we want supervisory authorities that are able to function and to give europe its place in the great global competition that exists today.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. - madam president, commissioners, european supervision of financial markets is the least we can do. it goes through the rating agencies' regulations. we have seen what instruments speculation has against the states. but the supervisory authorities we must set up cannot reproduce the same defects by being both judge and party. the question of control is therefore a whole one: it must be political control. this regulation, which is necessary, is not sufficient if we do not add to it economic governance of the euro area and the european union that goes beyond the stability pact. it is also insufficient if we do not take real action against capital flight to tax havens. finally, this european supervision will be inadequate if we do not take steps to ensure that regulation is also done at global level. regulation at european level is useful but not sufficient. we need to have global surveillance of the financial markets.
madam president, i am pleased to see my friend michel barnier back in this house. i would also like to say to josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil how grateful i am that he has accepted that as long as a credit institution is not regulated by a national authority, the future european banking authority will be competent. i am thinking of the international public banking institutions, and in particular the european investment bank. i would like to bring to the table two subjects which i think are important: firstly accounting standards and the opposition we have, with our american friends in the united states, to fair value. we will need to be able to deal with this agreement in the financial sector, insurance and market authorities and, failing that, have our own accounting standards in these financial sectors. finally, if we are to approach the question of the failure of the states on a whim, i suggest that we should ask ourselves about the responsibility of credit institutions and, in particular, the question of credit institutions being held responsible for abusive support of a state in the event of financial difficulties. i think it is not right for a credit institution to continue lending to a state which does not respect the rules of the stability and growth pact.
madam president, we have been through a very heavy, very deep financial crisis which has shaken the world, destabilised our economy, worsened unemployment and accelerated our debt, and we continue to suffer the effects of it every day. so it seems to me that our responsibility is clear. we must do everything in our power to ensure that this does not happen again. that is why it is vital that the rapporteurs, the commission and the council move together and quickly to finally reach a good agreement. we need regulation and supervision. we need independent and strong authorities in the interests of europeans. what the united states has succeeded in doing, the european union must do in turn. it's the only way we have to change things, and that's why we have to succeed.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to say three things. firstly, the more flexible we are in the procedure, the more firm we will be on the substance. let's just really be very clear about this between us. we made an effort. this parliament has agreed to suspend the first reading procedure. we had no compulsion in this, but it was of our own free will, and you yourselves have shown that you want to compromise, to be in conflict with each other. we should not end up cherry-picking, picking the little cherries from the left and the right. no, i'm not going. parliament has developed a very coherent vision over the past months and i thank all the members. i cannot mention all of them; i will just mention mr karas, for example, who insisted that we wanted a european solution. it's our trademark and what we believe in for efficiency reasons. my second point concerns the date. yes, we want something on 1 january, and i can see that i could say exactly what sven giegold said: 'we spend so much time together, we agree so much that we end up repeating ourselves', but i say it again. the date is not a fetish. we don't want january 1st for january 1st. it's january 1st with substance. we do not want to put pressure on parliament merely to achieve a sham european supervision on 1 january. as regards my last point, i would like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs, all the colleagues present here who have spoken, because in this parliament we feel that there is a real unity of substance. of course, everyone has his own sensibilities, but let us all ask ourselves - and i would draw your attention, commissioner, to the fact that i would have asked this question if the presidency had been present - what we are going to return to the citizens with at the end of this story. will we have at least laid the foundations - i do not say the top floor, but the foundations - of a solid european house, or will we come back with one of those pseudo-compromises which the council likes, but which parliament would gladly do without?
madam president, commissioner, as you know, we in this parliament were glad that solidarity had finally been established, although a number of us regretted that it had taken several months after president herman van rompuy's initiative to convene an extraordinary european council on these matters on 11 february. in the meantime, the markets have done their job. when we approach this european solidarity initiative, i think we also have to look at where we are coming from and recognize that if this situation has been created, it is because we do not have quite the right elements in terms of governance of the euro area. our colleague, othmar karas, spoke about the stability pact. it seems to me that the mere application of the stability pact is not enough and that, in fact, we have, from the outset, underestimated the risks of divergences in the assessment of the sovereign debt ratings of the member states. today we have a mechanism that was made in an emergency, you mentioned. and you also recalled that in this parliament, since october 2008, since the implementation of the balance of payments facility, some voices had been raised to ask that article 122 be explored. we did it in an emergency. the emergency is never the best adviser, and you indicated that you were considering a possible proposal for the continuation of such a mechanism. i hope you will come up with more aggressive proposals in this area because we are certain that an area like the eurozone needs not only good governance to avoid finding ourselves in such situations, but also a lasting mechanism, in case it happens. and then, let me simply say that i regret that instead of using eurobonds, the member states have preferred to set up the special purpose vehicle mechanism at a time when we are also questioning the functioning of this type of structure in the markets. one last word. i think in replying to mrs sharon bowles about the eib... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, i think one of the questions that is being asked is as to the conditions under which the eib will be able to borrow on the markets, in competition with the establishment of these mechanisms, and whether, from the point of view of borrowing rates, there will be an impact. i would simply like to ask you a question, commissioner. in this context, do you not think that within the working group led by president herman van rompuy, you or commissioner rehn should propose that the mutualisation of part of the sovereign debts be considered? it is a proposal which is not on the table, but which is being debated a lot outside the working group. it would be interesting if this mutualisation of part of the sovereign debt were taken into account in the proposals that could be drawn up by this working party.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, my political group particularly welcomes the adoption of this directive, which contains perhaps the most ambitious rules on elements of pay in the world. i have to say that the ability to severely limit the variable remuneration of the directors of banks supported by public money, or the possibility of deferring up to 70% of the trader bonus to take account of the long-term interests of the bank and, possibly, therefore, the risks taken and the negative effects of these risks to reduce bonuses, are important rules which translate into concrete figures, at european level, the commitments of principle of the g20. but i must also say that in the negotiations with all the other fictitious rapporteurs and with the rapporteur, we were constantly confronted with the ill-will of the states, with an incredibly wide gap between the great speeches on the regulation of capitalism, on the moralization of capitalism on the one hand, and the negotiating positions of the council and the main states, which constantly refused to put figures, tried to diminish, to postpone all our ambitious proposals, on the other. and i must say, commissioner, that the commission has been on our side in this fight. so i think that's an asset that we can share together. now, there is a big issue. because we lost, we had to compromise. we have lost a number of battles that involved putting numbers in and we have had to replace them with a number of words, a bit of baggage, like "justified", "appropriate", "balanced". the challenge now is for the future european banking authority to translate these principles and words into concrete figures, which will be applied by all banks and member states. i would therefore like to know how, mr barnier, you intend to exert pressure and exercise strict supervision over this future process so that it does not distort the text we are going to vote on tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing today a regulation which is particularly important because it concerns new foodstuffs, because technological innovation plays a major role in the agri-food industry and because it must be done in the interests of the consumer. this is how we can recognize the benefits of some new products that are healthier. so, on the sensitive subject of the placing on the market in the european union of food derived from cloned animals, and especially their offspring, i cannot agree with those who want to take advantage of this regulation from the outset to decide on a systematic ban. it is a pity that i have only an ideological position on the question of cloned animals. the european commission has committed itself to making us a proposal. without prejudice to prohibition or not, let us beware of any scientific populism on such sensitive issues that require a lot of reason. we should not systematically adopt a retreat or worse, a definitive position on a complex issue that merits thorough consideration. the precautionary principle is essential, but it must be based on scientific, not ideological, advice and risk assessment. if this precautionary principle had been in place a few decades ago, the first heart transplants would never have been performed and hundreds of patients would not have been cured. it is true that prudence requires us to answer questions about nanomaterials and the seeds of cloned bulls, which are already being imported by many european breeders. what will be the consequences for transatlantic trade, since food products from the offspring of these cloned cattle are already on european markets? so let us remove food from cloned animals from this regulation and let the european commission work calmly to ensure the best food safety for consumers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
mr president, the final agreement reached on the revision of the industrial emissions directives is more than acceptable, and i welcome the compromise work that has been achieved. this final package contains the key points of the position which i defended with several of my colleagues in the committee on the environment, and which was to make this text ambitious but realistic legislation. first, the maintenance of a certain flexibility for undertakings and the competent authorities to grant derogations. secondly, i would like to welcome the new version of the esn, which has been so controversial and which, now limited to certain sectors, seems much more feasible. it is also important to stress that the agreement reached allows for better coordination with the ets directive and definitively removes from the text of the new directive the irrelevant idea of creating a so2 and nox allowance market. however, there are a few things to keep in mind, particularly the provisions on land. as the soil directive is still pending, this important issue will unfortunately only be dealt with by member states with their own legislation. tomorrow parliament is due to adopt the elements of the agreement reached at the end of the trilogues. a great deal of work has been done on all sides to avoid this text being referred back to conciliation, a text which, i should remind you, is of crucial importance both for industry and for european environmental policy.
in writing. today, 20 to 30% of the world's industrial timber production is of fraudulent origin. the european timber market must be cleaned up as soon as possible. the proposed regulation is ambitious and courageous, although it remains to be improved. i believe that it is an effective tool for curbing deforestation, without imposing administrative burdens on european companies or harming wood, which will be re-valorized. the regulation establishes a binding and accountable mechanism based on the 'due diligence system'. it allows operators to trace the history of wood and wood products, to have access to information on compliance with applicable legislation and thus to obtain sufficient guarantees to avoid the sale of products from harvests considered illegal. the obligations contained in the regulation should target operators placing timber on the market for the first time, as this is the stage where the level of risk is highest. in addition, in order to ensure the effectiveness of this regulation, the need for regular checks and a system of firm and dissuasive penalties against infringers should be emphasised.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, european citizens want to understand better how european decisions are taken and they expect the european union to respond in a concrete way to their concerns. i would like to say, mr prime minister, dear yves leterme, that it is also time to put an end to the catalogue of priorities of the rotating presidencies, which only create disillusionment. every six months, for years now, the council presidents have come here to explain to us that in six months they will remake europe. then they come back six months later to tell us that, for reasons beyond their control, the expectations they had raised turned into a lot of grief. i believe that this is not the right way for the council to proceed and that it is damaging to the credibility of our european project. ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that the belgian presidency, because of national politics on the one hand and because of the coincidence of nationality with the president of the european council on the other, has not fallen into this trap and is concentrating its efforts on our three real priorities: growth and employment, the green economy, security and freedom. i repeat here - and our citizens know this well - that the answer to all our major challenges, whether it be the economy and employment, security, climate or energy, is european and global. mr president-in-office of the council, as you have just said, europe's number one problem is its low growth, in other words its insufficient capacity, in recent times, to create wealth and to employ. this is what your presidency should be working on, and agenda 2020, if it is fully taken on board, and therefore financed by the member states - that is the key word, financing - can be a very effective tool to ensure a europe that is both more competitive and greener. but at the same time we must make very concrete progress on the symbolic construction of financial sector regulation, the reduction of our deficits. europe must set an example in this respect and everyone must see clearly what europe is encouraging and promoting: it is not financial speculation but work and entrepreneurship. we must also send a clear signal to the europeans on the freedom, security and justice axis, because our citizens often ask why europe does not yet exist on subjects such as the mutual recognition of judicial decisions. it is by providing concrete answers to such questions that we will make our work more comprehensible. mr president, you have spoken well because i had prepared a conclusion, but i cannot say it because it dealt with the community method. i am counting very much on the belgian presidency to ensure that, as you have said, this community method is even more deeply impressed on the level of our various institutions.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr prime minister, you are assuming this responsibility at a time when the peoples of europe are suffering terribly from an unprecedented economic and social crisis. it is therefore time for bold, progressive new initiatives to alleviate their suffering and to get out of the crisis. you have a number of objectives, such as sustainable growth, the fight against poverty or the environment, which we can share. but unfortunately we can predict that they will remain unchanged, and i understood that mr joseph daul himself also had doubts in this respect, because the super-austerity choices applied in europe are the opposite of these declared objectives. there will be no sustainable growth, no recovery, no fight against poverty without an increase in the purchasing power of the people. to face this crisis, a clear choice would have to be made: justice and employment versus the financial market; the commission's proposal is to develop a voluntary policy for human, sustainable and supportive development. the strengthening of the stability pact that you have just confirmed with mr barroso is an iron heel on the heads of workers, young people and pensioners, and the states that do not apply it would now be threatened with sanctions, up to the withdrawal of their voting rights in the council, which you preside over, and the withdrawal of certain aid funds. are farmers, workers made redundant, pensioners, public servants to pay for the crisis for which they are in no way responsible? will you, mr president, seek new revenue sources, such as the taxation of capital movements so often mentioned, or a european tax on capital and financial income? we had some hopes that your presidency would help to put in place a new directive on services of general interest, but you did not mention it. as for swift, it is not a step forward for freedoms, it is the exact opposite. instead of a stability pact which has become an austerity pact, would it not be better for parliament, the council and the commission to look together for another way forward: a new pact for social and ecological progress, backed up by a european central bank with new tasks, to buy back the debt securities of the states which need them and to refinance public credit at interest rates, provided that this serves employment, research, innovation and education, as well as a major european programme of useful and ecological infrastructure? the international trade union confederation has proposed another comprehensive plan, focused on labour, to combat speculation and promote fair taxation. the european trade union confederation is calling for action on 29 september in brussels. i think that is where we should look for a solution, mr president, and i wish you every success in your presidency.
mr president, i like the sound of savages on my left. but i would also like to see these members applauding when the speakers respect their speaking time.
mr president, mr prime minister, europe is facing an unprecedented economic and social crisis. there is an emergency: 24 million unemployed, 5 million more unemployed if nothing is done. unfortunately, mr prime minister, mr president, i did not hear any response to this emergency that we are waiting for, and i would like to make three proposals that i believe will help us to cope with the economic and social situation as we know it. first, a large european loan. this is a perspective which can make this policy of full employment possible. secondly, we were with jacques delors and president buzek a few weeks ago in brussels proposing a major community energy policy. the third is the financial transaction tax. we know that a tax of 0.05% on each financial transaction will bring 200 billion in revenue to the european union and 2 million jobs. that is what i would like to hear, mr prime minister, in the context of the belgian presidency for the next six months.
in writing. mr president, you are now holding the rotating presidency of the european union for six months. you have many challenges ahead of you, including the establishment of the european external action service, one of the greatest achievements of the lisbon treaty. the agreement reached between the various institutions provides for its establishment by january 2011, even though it took more than seven months to negotiate the organisation chart of the service. the real and effective establishment of the eeas is now an urgent matter because the credibility of the lisbon treaty is at stake, as is europe's image in the international community. your experience of negotiation and compromise will facilitate the actual implementation of the lisbon treaty. we wish you every success.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i have nothing to add to what my colleagues have said. i would simply like to point out - the presidency is not here - how much the majority of the elected representatives of the european people are in favour of strong supervision. i hope the council will take this into account, seeing how many states are also with us. (applause) i would like to thank
we voted in favour of mr el khadraoui's report on the remuneration of directors of publicly traded companies. in my country, france, these directors, most of whom come from the major bodies of the state, are recruited by cooptation, accumulate in an absolutely indecent way the tokens of presence in the said councils, and receive bonuses. when they leave, they receive what are known as 'golden parachutes' and are given remuneration that is not in any way commensurate with the actual contribution they make to companies whose shareholders and employees often suffer as a result of their actions or lack of skills. this is an absolutely intolerable cynicism. it can't last. it must be stopped, if it is not to discredit the market economy and capitalism.
in writing. as a result of the current financial and economic crisis, changes are needed in remuneration policies in the financial services sector and in listed companies. but to avoid a disorderly approach and to establish a level playing field between the different member states, we needed a european initiative. i therefore fully support this initiative. it is now essential to avoid an excessive increase in risks at the level of each company and, above all, to avoid a general increase in systemic risk. as the report points out, the decision to take such risks is the responsibility of the boards and ceos of these companies and the employees working for them. to frame the bonuses for traders and bank managers in europe, the report therefore foresees that in the future traders will receive a maximum of 60% of their variable remuneration immediately, and a substantial part (of at least 40%) after a period of at least three years, in order to take account of long-term risks.
in writing. the text is clear about the risks of seeking short-term profit and pursuing only individual financial interests. the consistency would therefore require that he denounce all performance-based remuneration and the whole neoliberal system and its stock market casino. he doesn't. he advocates fair competition between financial centres and the all-powerful role of shareholders in financial institutions. this is unacceptable. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the purpose of this draft regulation is to harmonise the rules on the placing on the market of novel foods in the union. the first objective is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health and animal health and welfare, while being consistent with the transparency and efficient functioning of the internal market and the need to stimulate innovation in the agri-food industry. i supported this report, even though i opposed several amendments tabled in plenary: amendment no 11, which states that 'foodstuffs produced from cloned animals or their descendants should therefore not be included in the union list' and amendment no 14, which concerns the scope and aims to exclude animals produced from cloned animals or their descendants. the question here is not whether or not to approve the placing on the market of food derived from cloned animals and their offspring, but to ask the european commission for a specific proposal on the subject, without prejudice to whether or not to ban it.
in writing. - i voted for amendment no 37 to the report on 'new foods'. i support the proposal to ask the european commission to initiate legislative measures to ban the placing on the market of products derived from cloned animals. according to the european food safety authority, the production of food from cloned animals is not currently justified on ethical grounds: cloned animals have serious health problems, most of them dying in the first days or weeks of life. veterinarians decided to euthanize dolly the sheep, the first mammal cloned from an adult cell, because she suffered from severe health problems. this case has brought up the implications of animal cloning. the citizens of the european union do not want to clone animals for food. according to a survey by the european commission, 84% of citizens believe that the long-term effects of eating food from cloned animals are not sufficiently known. there are also concerns about the possible side effects of eating these foods. another argument against cloning animals for food is that the european market is sufficiently supplied with food.
in writing. in the context of this report, meps from the democratic movement voted in favour of an amendment which would make it compulsory for food from animals fed with genetically modified organisms to bear a label informing the consumer of the use of gmos. unfortunately, this amendment did not obtain a qualified majority, so we will have to come back to it with the future major reform of the common agricultural policy. another key point of debate was cloned animals, their offspring and the food they produce. the council and the commission wanted to include the descendants of cloned animals in the category of 'new foods', a position that was clearly rejected by the meps from the democratic movement, as well as by the majority of parliamentarians. at present, there is no legislation to allow or disallow products derived from cloned animals (e.g. milk or meat). meps therefore called for legislation expressly banning food from cloned animals and their offspring, with a moratorium on their sale. thanks to this vote, dolly won't end up on your plate.
in writing. the european parliament is called upon to give its opinion on the draft legislative resolution tabled by kartika tamara liotard on 'new foods'. new foods, food supplements, may be of plant or animal origin, or may be the result of scientific and technological research. these are ingredients or foods that have been negligible or non-existent in consumption up to now. however, the european union still legislates. food is the basis of life; changing what humans have known for millennia in favor of concessions to the big food industries is risky. animal cloning for food production or gmos are on the agenda, in ambush. it is not for the european union to impose these novel foods and the legislation relating to them in the member states. such a decision constitutes a violation of national sovereignty and i reiterate my opposition to this report.
in writing. just as i was outraged by the european commission's decision earlier this year to allow the use of gmos in europe, i strongly opposed the commission's proposal on 'new foods' on two points, namely cloned animals and the use of nanotechnologies. so i voted, of course, against the authorization of food products derived from clones and in favour of a moratorium on the sale and marketing of food products modified by nanotechnology. the commission and the council did not want a specific regulation for these two types of food, but this is essential: in both cases, until it is proved that it is harmless, until the health risks have been ruled out, these products should not be authorized. these issues need further study, as they concern food safety and food protection for european citizens, but also ethical issues.
in writing. while the debate on novel foods is likely to be a long and contentious one, i am pleased that the european parliament has maintained its first reading position at second reading, despite the strong reluctance of the council and the commission. i therefore voted in favour of this report for a simple reason: apart from my ethical objections to industrial production from cloned animals, i do not want these food products to end up on the table of european consumers, given the ongoing doubts about the safety of cloned meat. in this connection, i voted in favour of a separate legislative proposal, expressly banning food derived from cloned animals and their offspring. in the same spirit of caution, i have also supported a moratorium on the marketing of nanotechnology products until a risk assessment has been carried out, and a clear labelling of nano-ingredients. i regret, however, that the amendment calling for mandatory labelling of food products from animals fed gmos has been rejected.
in writing. political leaders cannot accept risk to the health of our citizens and our ecosystem. until the safety of every cloning technique and other genetic modification is proven, we will need to be safe from anything that comes out of it in any generation.
in writing. the liotard report on novel foods reflects parliament's concerns about food produced from cloned animals and the use of nanotechnologies. i share these concerns and have therefore supported him. there is currently no community legislation to allow or prohibit dairy products and meat from cloned animals, whereas we have been calling for appropriate legislation on this subject at european level for years. in the meantime, we propose to expressly ban food derived from cloned animals and their offspring. on the question of foodstuffs modified by nanotechnology (any ingredient in the form of nanomaterial or any foodstuff produced by a means of production using nanotechnology), i am in favour of the precautionary principle and therefore of a moratorium as long as the health risks are not eliminated. i therefore welcome the signal sent by parliament today, even if i consider it a mistake to reject amendment no 76 calling for the labelling of foodstuffs from gm-raised animals, which i supported: i believe that, in the context of a policy of transparency in labelling and consumer accountability, this measure is desirable at european level, given the sensitivity of the subject.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, kartika liotard (gue/ngl/netherlands), on the rules for the marketing authorisation of novel foods. the regulation calls for a ban on the sale of foodstuffs derived from cloned animals. this is urgent, as the cloning technique is not yet mastered. today, more than half of the cloned animals die prematurely, suffer deformities and other health problems. food from such clones should therefore not be on the plate of our fellow citizens. it also provides a framework for the testing and evaluation of nanomaterials. research is very recent in this area and the steps in the large-scale marketing of such products should not be burnt. consumer safety must therefore be given priority. i regret, however, that the european parliament has rejected some of kartika liotard's proposals, in particular on the assimilation of certain products (additives, flavourings, etc.) to foodstuffs, the publication of european studies in this field or labelling, in particular that of products from animals fed gmos.
in writing. there are currently too many directives on industrial emissions in the european union, as there are seven. this report therefore responds to an urgent need to rationalise european legislation by bringing together all the directives on industrial emissions in a single text. in addition, installations are a central element in the prevention and reduction of pollution from industrial emissions. that is why i supported the khramer report. it has taken environmental issues into account by strengthening the role of sectoral reference documents on best available techniques in determining the operating conditions of installations, by strengthening the provisions on closure and rehabilitation of sites, etc. this text has been the subject of long negotiations and it seems to me that the compromise is finally very satisfactory for our fellow europeans. that's why i supported him.
in writing. the highly controversial recasting into a single text of the seven directives which regulated industrial emissions in europe has finally been adopted, and we can welcome this vote. the aim is to minimise the overall harmful effects of most industrial activities within the eu, i.e. emissions of potential pollutants into air, water, soil and waste. the final agreement reached goes further. it takes up the key points of the position we have been defending in the committee on the environment for several months, which aimed to make this text an ambitious but realistic piece of legislation, in line with the problems of our territories. the agreement strengthens the provisions on environmental protection, but gives the member states some flexibility which we have fought for with a framework for large combustion plants. in this time of crisis we need a strong european environmental policy, but one which will not bring our industry to its knees. industrial strategy and policy should no longer be taboo concepts in brussels: let us simply look at what our competitors are doing in third countries!
in writing. the proposal we are voting on updates, in a single text, seven existing laws on industrial emissions, including the important directives on large combustion plants and on integrated pollution prevention and control (the famous ippc, which covers some 52 000 industrial and agricultural plants - from refineries to pig farms - with a high pollution potential). i welcome the fact that after two years of difficult negotiations a compromise was finally reached at the third trilogue in june. as in all compromises, there are concessions and advances, but overall the european parliament has fought for greater clarity and fairness in environmental requirements: the text clearly makes major progress on several key points (notably on air quality, optimisation of environmental performance, and strengthening of member states' obligations in the area of plant monitoring). finally, i note with satisfaction the provision for the commission to draw up, before the end of 2011, a legislative proposal to amend the authorisation thresholds for poultry species, which will include the specific case of quails, which is a sensitive subject in my constituency.
in writing. the report aims to reduce the placing on the internal market of wood or derived products from illegal harvesting. i supported him in the vote because he found a satisfactory principle for protecting european consumers and manufacturers, the principle of 'duty of due diligence'. this principle provides for measures and procedures to enable operators to trace timber and derived products, to have access to information on compliance with applicable legislation and to manage the risk of placing illegally harvested timber and derived products on the internal market.
in writing. the prohibition of the import of illegal timber is a necessity, particularly in the context of the fight against global warming. this ban, which is expected to cover 20 to 40% of timber imported into europe, will make a real breakthrough in the fight against deforestation. it will lead to a very significant reduction in co2 emissions into the atmosphere and help protect animal and plant species that are currently endangered. this measure will also improve the living conditions of local communities dependent on the forest and, more generally, of the entire population of the countries concerned. by making illegal exploitation more difficult, in particular by imposing traceability on importers, and by encouraging legal exploitation and therefore the payment of taxes in the country of production, the european union is supporting the states concerned in their fight against tax evasion, which will enable them to have more resources at their disposal, which they can put at the service of the people.
in writing. 20% of the wood and wood products that reach the eu are of illegal origin, and illegal logging is a powerful driver of deforestation, which is increasing by almost 13 million hectares each year and leading to a dramatic depletion of natural resources and biodiversity. in the face of this, parliament has just decided to refuse the importation of illegally harvested timber into the european area, and i welcome this decision which represents a major international step forward: the european union is thus finally taking its responsibilities in terms of international trade and the fight against deforestation.
in writing. i supported this second reading agreement because we must avoid any bureaucratic and costly processes to safeguard the future of wood, by effectively fighting illegal timber in europe. we must strengthen our control of imports to put a stop to deforestation once and for all. the efforts of operators and public authorities must be concentrated on the closest link to the harvesting of wood, namely the first marketing on community territory. it would have been irresponsible to penalise our european publishers by asking them to prove the origin of the paper used by the printers for their books. it is impossible to determine the origin of the wood used in the paper.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft regulation laying down the obligations of operators marketing wood and wood products on the european market. i welcome the ban on the placing on the european internal market of illegally harvested timber. this decision is essential in the fight against illegal deforestation linked to the exploitation of exotic wood for western consumers. it is also a significant step in the fight against global warming. the regulation provides significant guarantees in terms of firmness, deterrence and harmonisation of member states' legislation. this is a necessary step in the effective fight against this illegal trade in the eu. it will help to preserve the future of wood materials. i therefore welcome the very soon entry into force of this new regulation, which proves that in certain areas the european union can play a positive role if its member states apply this legislation correctly.
in writing. the report aims to establish a sound, independent and accountable supervisory system which should form the basis of european action in relation to financial markets. this is a european but also a global commitment, as the g20 committed to 'acting to establish a more robust and globally consistent framework for the future supervision and regulation of the financial sector, which is capable of fostering sustainable growth and meeting the needs of businesses and citizens' (g20 summit, 2 april 2009 in london). the current financial and economic crisis has revealed the persistence of imbalances between financial globalisation, eu financial integration and national supervisory arrangements, which we now need to address. i therefore committed myself, in voting in favour of this report, to moving towards a more integrated supervisory structure, always with a view to an integrated single market in financial markets. the ball is now in the council's court, which must also move towards a genuine european financial surveillance.
in writing. all the reports we were called upon to vote on under the 'supervision' package have the same flaw. if they strengthen the surveillance of financial actors, banks, insurance companies, funds, etc., which we can only approve, they do not change anything about what is being monitored. they do not address the root of the problem: the financial, globalized capitalist system. these same actors will be able to continue to create complex products, to securitize debts and to exchange them, in short, to carry out a financial activity totally disconnected from the real production of wealth ... instead of banning a number of assets with perverse fundamentals which, far from improving the liquidity available to economic activity, only create artificial and predatory profit, they are "monitored" and "regulated". what a deal! the lamfalussy procedure is hailed here as the jewel of virtue. but it must be said that, in view of the immorality, even cynicism, of the behaviour of certain financial institutions and their managers, to give them such power to intervene in the regulations which concern them is something unhealthy, and even deeply perverse.
in writing. the purpose of this draft regulation is to establish a european financial markets authority. this authority will be one of the three new ones created to set up a new supervisory framework. this will help to improve the effectiveness of supervision and regulation and to better identify risks in the financial system. as part of my overall support for the financial supervision package, i support the creation of such an authority. i therefore voted in favour of this report which, while supporting the european commission's proposal for a regulation, states that the authority's mediation role, which is essential for an effective and accountable supervisory framework, will nevertheless need to be better defined and improved.
in writing. this is a proposal for a regulation on the macroprudential supervision of the financial system, establishing a european systemic risk board. i strongly support the financial supervision package as adopted by the parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs. the aim of this body of legislation is multifaceted, but two main ones can be identified: stable financing of the economy for sustainable growth and jobs, and the desire to safeguard the unity of the european market. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which has provided for consistency between macroprudential and microprudential supervision and will thus enable the european union to have stable, transparent and consistent authorities and committees for the management of our european and global financial system.
in writing. the european systemic risk board (esrb) is nothing but a body of the reigning euro-liberalism and a prototype of the bypass of democracy. its general council will be composed of members of the ecb, the commission and the national central banks, but will not include any members of parliament. the esrb will never warn us of the dangers of the policies it advocates. it is therefore harmful, as is the proposal in this report, to allow the esrb to work closely with the imf and the g20. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i have clearly supported this report, which aims to create a european banking authority and to set up a settlement mechanism for future crises, in order to avoid european citizens having to bear the consequences of a collapse of the financial system. i particularly appreciate the european approach taken by our rapporteur. it is clearly in favour of a so-called 'european' option which would involve giving colleges of supervisors the possibility of setting binding standards where agreement cannot be reached at national level. in addition, the creation of a european fund pre-financed by financial institutions is envisaged, the aim being to protect depositors and to help institutions in difficulty when their bankruptcy risks destabilising the whole system. finally, i very much appreciate the support that the rapporteur wants to give to small and mediumsized enterprises, which are often too underrepresented in the banking sector. the report therefore provides that representatives of small and medium-sized enterprise organisations will sit on the banking stakeholder group and elect two members of the board of supervisors.
in writing. as part of the financial supervision package, this draft regulation aims to establish a european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the authority complements the supervisory framework, alongside the european banking authority and the european securities and markets authority. i believe that the european parliament must make a clear statement in favour of integrated supervision at european level and that it is now up to the council to do the same.
in writing. first of all, it should be noted that the lack of capital in the banking system was a central factor in the crisis, hence the importance of implementing an increase in capital. i therefore voted in favour of this report. the latter is firmly opposed to the idea of privatising profits and nationalising losses, or of passing them on to society as a whole. the present system, in particular the remuneration policy in the banking system, encourages high risk taking. excessive bonuses have led to the short-term pursuit of profit at the expense of the medium- and long-term stability of the financial system. for example, the report makes a good point about the need for remuneration to be based on incentive systems and not on guarantees given to employees, regardless of the profits and losses made. in addition, it aims to establish a remuneration committee within the company to improve transparency and information and to defend long-term interests.
in writing. the legislation proposed today is, in general, to strengthen capital requirements in line with the risks taken by financial institutions, and to regulate bonuses and other golden parachutes. i'm sorry it doesn't go far enough. it does not, for example, go so far as to cap these bonuses, to require that they not be the main part of wages or to ban certain so-called 'toxic' products. this legislation does not go far enough, but it is moving in the right direction. and it is a pity that many of the financial sector reforms in the european union, which are presented as urgent and indispensable, are being delayed for sometimes political reasons. another concern is that it is very good to impose new and stricter rules. but will this be enough to put finance back at the service of the economy? nothing is less certain. the banks were quick to repay the state aid, without fulfilling their credit obligations to companies and individuals, so that they could pay out exceptional bonuses. speculation is at its highest, above all, since it is known that the taxpayer will pay whatever happens. it's not just the rules that need to change, it's the system itself.
in writing. i voted for the mccarthy report on bankers' pay because the excessive pursuit of short-term profits by an oversized financial sector has deeply destabilised the financial sector and contributed to the crisis. the text, adopted by an overwhelming majority in the european parliament, caps variable remuneration and allows the deferral of up to 70% of the trader bonus to take account of the bank's long-term interests. the text thus has a twofold objective: to stabilise the financial sector and to put it back at the service of long-term investment.
in writing. the mccarthy report aims to set a framework for the remuneration of traders and to establish new rules on the capital of banks. this is just another attempt to regulate the banks, and the regulations have not been effective. these measures are merely a form of publicity. adding more regulation will not be a lifesaver, as banks will once again hijack regulation. the overcompensation of traders can only be stopped if trading on the capital of banks is prohibited. this requires the separation of banking activity into deposit banking and investment banking, with the former being prohibited from lending to the latter. the size of the largest financial institutions must be reduced to prevent abuse of a dominant position. banks must be subject to the 100% money rule; they could therefore only lend what they owned. the increase in the money supply must be returned to the state and the state must refrain from bailing out banks in the event of a risk of bankruptcy. only then will bankers be responsible and will they seriously assess the risks they take.
in writing. i abstained on the so-called "financial supervision" package. despite some small measures to manage the situation, the proposed responses are not up to the current crisis and would be even less able to prevent new ones. it is not enough to create new bodies to regulate the financial sector. the composition of the general council of the european systemic risk board (esrb), with only representatives of the ecb, the commission and the national central banks, without any parliamentarians, speaks for itself, especially as this new body should work in close collaboration with the imf and the g20 and without any exchange with the committee of the regions or the social partners. instead of strengthening a stability pact that is no longer anything but an austerity pact, it is time to challenge it, to effectively control the financial markets and the ecb, and to implement new economic and social policies geared to job creation and the fight against poverty. the public debt crisis is a sign of the failure of current policies. it's time to learn the lessons.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it affirms several principles to which i am committed, including the fact that the answers to banking difficulties should not be borne by the taxpayer but should first be addressed by the banking sector. trust is also a principle that this report aims to consolidate; trust for financial markets in the member states, but also mutual trust between the 27 member states. finally, through this report i supported initiatives already undertaken such as the development of mandatory contingency plans by each institution within colleges of supervisors and the choice of a stability fund (privately funded and publicly managed) instead of a bank levy.
in writing. the main aim of mrs ferreira's report is not to manage crises effectively, but to prevent them from being solved by states. fortunately, however, governments have taken matters into their own hands quickly, without waiting for the commission to begin to wake up, entangled in its bureaucratic dogmas, focused on competition and its hatred of subsidies, stunned by its inability to see the crisis coming, although it has been predictable for a year. the european institutions were the most useless thing in the emergency. the heads of state or government had the elegance to drag mr barroso along at the important meetings. but, if you don't mind me saying, the decisions were made at the intergovernmental level. i am not saying that the decisions taken by the states were perfect: they had the merit of being taken and of being taken quickly. i am sure that the provisions of the report will not be able to make us forget the shortcomings of the past, nor will they guarantee efficiency in the future.
in writing. to avoid economic crises in the future and thus to promote growth potential and macroeconomic rebalancing within the european union, progress in fiscal and structural policies in the individual member states is essential. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it correctly defines the issues and the ways forward for improving the surveillance framework. the future supervisory framework should therefore ensure sustainable public finances and economic growth, competitiveness, social cohesion and the reduction of trade imbalances. to do this, we must tackle the structural problems facing the european union. the resolution therefore seeks to address the problem of internal imbalances and unsustainable debt and to address the significant disparities in competitiveness between member states.
in writing. i did not vote for the resolution on the european financial stabilisation mechanism. this mechanism, created out of thin air and in an emergency last may at the height of the greek bond crisis, was a major breakthrough in the economic governance of the euro area. but on this question our parliament has shown a serious lack of vision. several key amendments were rejected, including the most important one, which i regard as the most important, namely the one calling for the sustainability of this system through the creation of a european monetary fund, the first step towards a european bond market which i have already repeatedly called for. i am also surprised that this parliament has refused to acknowledge the positive role played by the ecb throughout this period, particularly in its decision to buy sovereign debt on the secondary market, which helped to relax the bond market. in the end, this resolution, which has no legislative scope, gives a very timid image of our parliament, while the commission, together with the council, is working on the contrary to maintain in the long term this mechanism which is essential for the stability of the euro.
in writing. this report makes good sense on at least one point: you do not solve a debt crisis by adding new debts to it. but the financial stability mechanism devised by the council and endorsed in this report makes the granting of new european loans conditional on the implementation of economic and financial reforms in line with the policies that created this crisis. so this report is absurd. it also welcomed the austerity plans put in place and the commission's proposals on ex ante control of national budgets and the strengthening of sanctions in the event of non-application of the stability and growth pact. the report therefore proposes to violate the sovereignty of peoples and nations. the role of parliamentarians is to defend the interests of the people, not those of the fallen elites. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i very much welcome the opening of accession negotiations with iceland. the country has a strong democratic culture, in which the defence of human rights and the protection of individual freedoms have already been welcomed by the european union. this accession is in iceland's interest as much as it is in ours. for example, iceland is in a position to set a good example for the european union in environmental policy. i am not afraid to admit that some points still need to be clarified. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. but iceland has shown great concern about the remarks that the institutions have been able to make to it, and that is why i welcome this initiative by the council to open accession negotiations.
in writing. we have every reason to welcome the opening of negotiations for iceland's accession to the european union. iceland, a country with a long democratic tradition and already bound by many agreements with the eu, seems to be an easy case. the european parliament, by voting the resolution on iceland's accession, sends a warm welcome to iceland, while recalling in an amendment that the island cannot become a member of the union without becoming a constructive player in the abandonment of industrial whaling. (iceland, like norway and japan, continues to fish for the marine mammal despite a 24-year moratorium by the international whaling commission.) the next step is to convince the 300,000 icelanders, who are shaken by the crisis, that they have everything to gain by joining us in the european project.
in writing. we have every reason to welcome the opening of negotiations for iceland's accession to the eu. iceland, a country with a long democratic tradition and already bound by many agreements with the eu, seems to be an easy case. however, the process of eu enlargement has been plagued by false appearances for too long. we have wasted an astronomical amount of time on obscure territorial disputes (croatia/slovenia), on counting the points in an eternal duel over the name of macedonia, after having negotiated half of cyprus' accession with great difficulty and welcoming with too much eagerness states where corruption remains a scourge. that's why we put the dots on the "i"s from the beginning with our icelandic friends. parliament did so by sending a warm welcome to iceland, while recalling that iceland cannot become a member without becoming a constructive player in the abandonment of industrial whaling. (iceland, norway, and japan continue to fish for the marine mammal despite a 24-year moratorium by the international whaling commission.) the problem is to convince the 300,000 icelanders, who are shaken by the crisis, that they have everything to gain by joining us in the european project.
in writing. the european parliament votes on the opening of accession negotiations with the european union in a resolution highlighting the positive aspects of this request. iceland, with its strong democratic and parliamentary tradition, has nothing to gain from membership of the european union. as a member of the delegation for relations with iceland, i am voting in the interest of iceland, that is to say against this resolution and against its accession. the whole tradition of fish farming and agriculture, which is essential to iceland's economy and a symbol of its identity, is in danger of being sacrificed on the altar of the cap and the common fisheries policy. icelanders, who have always been concerned about their independence and sovereignty, are in danger of falling from charybdis to scylla as the european union imposes its 'acquis communautaire' and its conditions on the island's membership, which is already badly troubled by the financial crisis.
in writing. i welcome with great enthusiasm the opening of negotiations for iceland's accession to the european union. we wanted to send a warm welcome to iceland, which is already bound by many agreements and partnerships with the european union, but we wanted to remind, by means of a few amendments, that iceland will have to improve its system of appointing judges and the country's highest judicial bodies in order to comply with the fundamental criterion and principle of the separation of powers, and above all that it will have to stop practicing whaling before accession. as a member of the arctic intergroup, i am also pleased to see the new influence that the european union will be able to exert, as a result of this accession, on the international strategy for the arctic.
in writing. i have too much respect for the icelandic people to wish them to join a europe that does not act in their own interests but in those of a caste. the icelandic people are already suffering the betrayal of their government. the report refers to the sovereign decision of the icelandic people, who rejected by 95% the law requiring them to pay for the losses of icecave's british and dutch customers. why would they accept to return to an eu that encourages them to accept this denial of popular sovereignty? according to the latest polls, 57.6% of icelanders are against joining the eu. i understand them. this is not the europe we should be welcoming.
mr president, mrs ashton, i would like to express to you the unequivocal support of the french delegation of the epp and the unequivocal support for the very good compromise negotiated by our colleagues brok, verhofstadt and gualtieri. this is indeed an important step in the construction of a common european policy in such sensitive areas as foreign affairs, security and defence, a common policy which we see every day, from georgia to the somali coast, from the balkans to gaza, how much it is needed, but also - and i was going to say above all - how much it is desired by our fellow citizens. the interinstitutional virtues of this compromise, which we welcome today, and particularly the increased role of parliament, must not be overlooked. the strategic importance of this service for external action must be emphasized, since it is an indispensable tool for equipping the european union with a more ambitious, more coherent, more credible and more effective common foreign and security policy. madam high representative, as chairman of the parliament's subcommittee on security and defence, and also as a frenchman, let me stress a particular responsibility you will have to exercise, namely crisis management, by preserving and strengthening what makes the european union unique and adds value, that is to say its civil-military capabilities. it is your responsibility to ensure that the european union maintains and increases its capacity by rejecting the unfounded suspicions we hear here and there and, sometimes, here, of the militarization of this service, and by involving parliament as much as possible in the legitimation of all operations carried out by the european union in the theatres of crisis.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for inviting me to this debate, which i consider to be extremely important. it's good that we can have it on risk and safety, regulation of offshore oil exploitation. after the disaster we have seen in the gulf of mexico, the situation obviously cannot leave us indifferent when we think of the victims, when we also think of the extremely serious, and probably sometimes irreparable, damage to the environment that has been caused in this region, and we have a duty to draw all the conclusions now in order to prevent a disaster of this kind from occurring in europe. the situation in europe is not the same, as we know. the conditions for exploitation are already stricter. we're drilling less offshore, at depths that are infinitely less than what we were dealing with in the gulf of mexico accident. nevertheless, as the saying goes, one can never be too careful, and we are right to consider a more preventive policy. i would also like to commend the commission for its dynamism and proactivity, which on 11 may took the initiative of consulting and questioning the industry and which will resume - commissioner oettinger will tell you in more detail and better than i - its consultations on 14 july. i am told that a debate was held in your chamber on 18 may. the council has also taken up the subject, and we had a first debate with the commission at our last energy council on 31 may. the first informal contacts with the commission suggest that we could return to this at the informal council in september, to ensure that the pressure on this matter is not relaxed. we have also discussed these issues at the various bilateral meetings we have had, no later than 28 june, with the opec countries. the question now is whether more legislation is needed in this area, where there are already a number of important rules on the safety of operating platforms, the safety of workers, etc. we already have, of course, the european maritime safety agency and civil protection mechanisms. do we need more? do we need to tighten these rules further? this is the question we will have to ask ourselves as soon as the commission has completed its analysis. i have already told you, the commissioner - and he will tell you again, better than i - is continuing his analysis of legislation, consulting the member states and the industry. i would simply like to make a plea on behalf of the council that the commission should widen its contacts and that it should have contacts with other types of experts, academic experts, for example, so as to bring as many points of view as possible together around the table. the idea is that, on the basis of this comprehensive analysis - which i hope will be forthcoming soon - we can consider - as a first step - the revision of the regulation on the european maritime safety agency - a strengthening of the european regulatory and legislative arsenal in this field. we will also have to consider not only the platforms that are still in operation today but also those that are no longer in operation and will have to be dismantled at some point. this is also a question of major risks and possible risks on the ecological level and naturally raises the question of financial responsibility and the technical conditions for this dismantling. that is the set of questions that the council would like us to debate. i would like to assure you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that the belgian presidency is determined to ensure that this matter is followed up with great care and that at no time can the attention we have begun to give it be slackened.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are discussing this issue for the second time in the house today and the possible risks associated with oil exploration and production off the coast of europe. we haven't been idle the last few weeks. on the basis of a first comprehensive consultation of the oil companies operating under european responsibility, we have drawn up a comprehensive catalogue of questions, which address all safety issues, and which we have received in these days and are also evaluating in these days. we have another hearing next week with all the companies, i think 17 or 18 companies, that are involved in oil production under european responsibility, and we will talk about vulnerabilities. i am happy to be able - that was my suggestion - to provide the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, or their coordinators, with initial results of these responses in an informal meeting in the coming days. at the same time, the commission services have begun to examine existing legislation. it is about risk management, prevention, harm reduction and follow-up. the answers that are foreseen are not clear and therefore not satisfactory. i am working closely with my colleagues mrs damanaki, mrs georgieva and mr potočnik in their respective areas of responsibility. we want the commission to work out a comprehensive package of measures, from prevention to response to liability. it's about safety first. i'm more concerned with safety than profitability. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised, and that the safety of workers is not compromised. the environmental liability issue is at the heart of the polluterpays principle. but even here we can already arrive at an intermediate result. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. i will therefore also be holding a meeting on 14 july with the national supervisory and regulatory authorities, the ministries and the specialised agencies. i want to discuss with them the possibilities and the need to bring european standards up to a uniform european level and to the highest possible level. today i want to address five key points where i believe action is needed, from prevention to remediation to liability. firstly, the new drilling. they know that the approval and examination of applications for new drilling rigs, for new drilling opportunities, is the responsibility of our member states. my clear advice to member states today is that i would not recommend, but would postpone, authorizations for new drilling, particularly for extreme drilling, at this stage. in fact, this may be a moratorium. it's not a bad thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. our governments will and must ensure that industry provides all safety and prevention measures at the highest possible level. this is particularly true in extreme climatic and geophysical conditions. secondly, it is a question of the level of prevention and of strengthening control. we're looking at all the contingency plans, we need to look at best practice, where we can learn from each other; the approval procedures shall include critical responsiveness. the financial background must also be taken into account, so that the responsibility for damage, i.e. the polluter principle, is not only theoretical but can actually be borne. in addition to the liability of the person responsible for the accident, whether or not the fault is attributable to him, it is also possible to examine whether insurance solutions, compulsory insurance solutions or even pre-insurance solutions are useful. i think the usual division of labour between national and eu authorities is not really satisfactory. we need a new model, more synergies and more efficient cooperation, perhaps even a system of auditing the auditors. i would therefore like to propose to parliament and the member states in a few weeks' time that, if necessary, national control and audit powers should be retained, but that a european audit of auditors and a common audit standard should be introduced in addition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. i want to ensure that europe has the highest safety standards and the highest legislation in a global comparison. this is acceptable because the damage, including the economic damage, clearly outweighs the cost of preventing an accident. we shall then consider whether the existing european maritime safety agency, which concerns ships, should also be given powers to inspect drilling rigs and platforms. we have competence there. i think it is obvious that we need to expand our competence. then there are the member states, but there is more to norway, the mediterranean, the maghreb region, or our neighbour nigeria. i want to develop a debate worldwide that makes comparable environmental disasters impossible in any region of the world, first of all in the marine region within our reach, but in the future worldwide. in all this, thoroughness precedes haste. the matter is of paramount importance, and the legal, economic and technical work is well under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, to the council of ministers, to the european council and to parliament. i am counting on your expertise, your interest and your cooperation.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am in full agreement with the statement of my colleague, mr oettinger. let me add just a few points. let me first remind you of an obvious fact which, however, has not been mentioned sufficiently these last few days. this dramatic accident happened at sea. what does that mean? its consequences are multiple. beyond the loss of lives, we had an unprecedented ecological disaster that affects the marine and coastal ecosystems, an economic and social catastrophe for tourism, for the fishing industry, as well as many other maritime and coastal activities. as commissioner oettinger said before me, it is a moment for us to analyse existing legislation, in order to check if it provides complete coverage for risk management and prevention. we also have to demand guarantees from oil companies, for full safety, referring to all their activities. this is very important. full safety in all their activities and full application of the polluter-pays principle . referring especially to my portfolio, if we have a situation where european fisheries become directly affected by a spill, i, as the commissioner in charge, will take the necessary steps to mitigate the impact on fishermen and their communities as far as possible and adequate. but i think that now is above all the moment to question ourselves on our addiction to oil and to look forward towards better management of the oceans and seas. this dependence on oil clearly comes at a price, which a large part of the population and of maritime stakeholders is no longer willing to pay. i am well informed about this. so we have to understand that there is great potential for future energy from the oceans. we need to put more emphasis on renewable ocean energy – not only offshore wind energy, this is obvious, but i am not only referring to this. i am referring also to sea energy, for example energy coming from waves, tides, the exploitation of algae or thermal sea potential. this energy is cleaner and will help us to achieve our climate-action targets and the diversification of energy sources. it also offers a huge potential for highly qualified new employment in maritime sectors and coastal regions. europe is the maritime continent par excellence and we should take the lead in the development of sustainable marine energy sources. we need the tools for a prevention policy as mr oettinger said but, at the same time, we need to allow balanced and sustainable exploitation of the marine sources. how can we achieve this? integrated maritime special planning can give us this opportunity. it is the key instrument in reconciling conflicting interests in the issue of this space. it can anticipate future challenges and operational skills. equally, our knowledge of the deep sea is dramatically poor and we have to understand this. today, for example, nobody can say for sure whether the spill will reach european shores, which creates justified concerns for us. we clearly need to better understand the deep sea. this means that we need to increase our research activities and to develop our maritime surveillance capacities in terms of satellites and equipment in general and with regard to data gathering and modelling. we are also seeing the need for international cooperation and understanding. so far, only the united states is directly affected but i think it is fair to say that this disaster is also a lesson in humility. we need to share experiences, best practice in governance and disaster response. in conclusion, the integrated maritime policy of the european union will help the commission’s ongoing work and prepare the ground for a secured, balanced and sustainable use of the oceans.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all i would like to say to mr oettinger how sensitive i have been to the evolution of what he has told us in relation to what we have heard before, and how happy i am to see, alongside him, mrs damanaki and mr potočnik, who are also interested in the subject, because it shows all the dimensions of the problem we are facing. clearly there is no community text applicable today, and we need to have community legislation on this, perhaps simply extending the scope of what already exists in other areas. i am thinking of seveso ii for risks or the environmental liability directive for liability and damage coverage. the question of insurance and a fund is worth considering, provided that it is not an opportunity to reduce the responsibility of producers and operators. the polluter pays principle must of course be applied. moratorium is necessary, but perhaps not only for extreme conditions; we need a moratorium on new installations until we are convinced that we have the technical means to stop a leak if it should happen. the day we have that means, then we can actually go back. one last point on post-oil: this is absolutely essential, and we have here an opportunity to take a real cost-benefit approach to the real costs that can be generated by oil exploitation. i believe that the day we are able to have an assessment of the direct and indirect costs and benefits of the different energy sources, we will have made a great deal of progress towards sustainable development.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, every day brings new information which shows us the scale of the ecological disaster caused in the gulf of mexico by the breach of the offshore platform. but we must not forget that other disasters of this kind are happening elsewhere. i am thinking in particular of what is happening today, and for a long time now, in nigeria. that is why, in addition to the moratorium on new drilling, i think it is necessary to promote stricter rules on the management of rigs, not only european rules but also international rules. as for the european union, i think it is necessary for it to take preventive measures to combat this type of disaster, and i think it is also clear that all this is a case, as mrs damanaki said, for a firm and resolute choice in favour of clean and renewable energy. the european union should set an example in this respect.
madam president, the situation in kyrgyzstan remains fragile, as many have already said, and i regret that the resolution does not reflect the views expressed here. i dare ask who has the best interest in seeing violence rise in this country. who is it in the interests of that democracy cannot settle there? who has an interest in preventing the provisional government from completing the process of returning to a democratic constitutional order and the rule of law? who benefits from seeing violence ethnicised? it is enough to ask these questions, for those who know a little about this country, to know what it is. how can we not regard it as a miracle that the referendum of 27 june was able to take place in peaceful conditions, with a high turnout and a 90% majority in favour of the new constitution? so yes, madam high representative, commissioner, the european union must, without interference, fully engage in kyrgyzstan and provide all the necessary assistance so that the people of that country, whatever their origins, are not victims of political and diplomatic issues that are beyond their control. let us not betray the trust of the kyrgyz people in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first of all like to thank george lyon and the team of fictitious rapporteurs who, i believe, worked very intelligently with him on this report. this report, in our group's view, has an ambition for european agriculture. it was written after the commodity crises of 2007 and 2008, after the agricultural crisis of 2009, which taught us that liberalism was not the solution for agriculture. our agriculture is primarily responsible for providing and guaranteeing food security for 450 million europeans, but we must also take our place on solvent markets. it is clear that the conditions that have prevailed since the middle of the 20th century have changed, that the techniques have changed and still have to change, that they have to change, that the tools of agricultural policy have to change as well. agriculture must be accompanied in this development. if the first pillar, financed from the union budget alone, is to be accompanied by the level of social requirements we are setting for agriculture, the second pillar, which is cofinanced, must also be accompanied by the modernisation of agriculture and agri-foodstuffs to take account of new contexts. this policy must also be fairer - yes, i said fairer - between the countries and between the farmers themselves. we want to give hope to the 14 million farmers and their families, and in particular to replace the 4.5 million farmers who are now over 60 and are about to leave the profession. the question of generational renewal will be one of our concerns.
mr. president, i understand you had a short and happy night. i would like to congratulate the commissioner on his attention to the whole debate, and i would like to congratulate mr george lyon on the work he has done in the report he is presenting this morning. what's the problem? to take account of the fact that agriculture, food and the environment are, in today's world, challenges for the whole of europe. that's the problem. what do we mean by that? refusing to renationalize the cap and increasing cofinancing is the first point. the second point is to maintain an agricultural budget which is commensurate with these challenges and with the major issue of food agriculture. the third element is to ensure that agriculture can meet the public goods demanded by society. and, fourthly, regulating and avoiding market volatility, i believe this is essential. we need to go back to that, we need to go a little further. the first is the need to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would caution all those who defend this structure - and they may be right - against the fact that in the end, in the context of the budgetary debate, the first pillar may be greatly reduced and everything will be transferred to a second pillar, which will be co-financed, which would be contradictory to the objective we have set ourselves of avoiding a renationalization of the common agricultural policy. i say this this morning because it's the debate. i shall conclude with a simple idea, commissioner. the cap was created at the same time as the eec, the european economic community. we are in the european union. i really advocate great politics... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur, mr lyon, with whom we have all worked together, i think, in a consensual way to try to make progress, and i would like to say quickly, in a few words, that we are faced with a finding. the fact is that europe is now a net importer of agricultural raw materials. we need an ambitious agricultural and food policy to be able to feed our citizens. and we have a cap today which needs to be reformed for three reasons. it is a cap that is unfair, economically, socially and ecologically. economically: producers are paid below their production costs, and the cap must help to solve this problem. social: aid is unequally distributed between countries, regions and farmers. 80% of the aid is allocated to 20% of the farmers. environmentally: a cap that respects the soil, that respects...
author. - mr president, commissioner, the reopening of negotiations with mercosur, at a time when the european union is about to redefine its agricultural policy, reveals a dangerous lack of coherence on the part of the commission. europe already imports 500 000 tonnes of beef. the new opening of our market would be at the expense of farmers in the less favoured areas of europe, without any guarantee of compliance with health and social standards. we cannot accept that. europe buys 38 million tonnes of soybeans and animal feed. these imports from brazil and argentina monopolise over 19 million hectares. they are concentrated in the hands of three companies: cargill, adm and bunch. between 2001 and 2004, soybeans destroyed more than 1.2 million hectares of tropical and equatorial forests. this is one of the main causes of the increase in greenhouse gas emissions and the loss of biodiversity. the european parliament has decided to produce a report on the recovery of vegetable protein for livestock feed. environmentally friendly agriculture and the fight against climate change dictate this choice. these efforts will be frustrated by this draft bilateral agreement. once again, the european commission is selling its agriculture and farmers for random counterparts to service companies. these concessions will not serve the interests of mercosur's peasant families, but those of agro-industrial groups. to be convinced of this, one need only read the report of the tyson group, an american company, a major player in the international meat market, which announces that it has invested in brazil to - i quote - and it is in its report to use this country as an export platform for europe. other companies, such as doux, had already anticipated this by buying the brazilian group frangosul in 1998. many poultry farmers, particularly in brittany, had paid for this operation. europe seems to be pursuing its policy of relocation by increasing its attacks on the peasants. we must stop this mad process by providing quality, locally produced food for our citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we have just had a debate in this house on the common agricultural policy, in which we have stressed the importance of supporting a european model which is unique in the world. at the same time, however, the commission has decided, without any prior public debate, to relaunch negotiations with mercosur, the consequences of which are likely to be catastrophic for our agriculture and, in particular, for our european livestock industry, which is already not doing well. imports of beef and veal will increase by 70%, and those of poultry by 25%. they will be pouring into europe at a lower cost because they are not produced with the same level of health, environmental and social requirements. i would therefore like to express my concern. our agriculture is in great difficulty. further destabilization will have serious consequences. europe's trade policy cannot be conceived without taking into account and defending one of our main assets. the commission must hear this message and this demand.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, many colleagues are concerned about the consequences for european agriculture of the reopening of negotiations on an association agreement with mercosur. my group and i share these concerns. it is to be feared, and as a member from an outermost region i have experience of the banana agreements, that an agreement with mercosur will deal a heavy blow to many european agricultural sectors. that is why an impact study is absolutely necessary. it is also to be feared that this agreement will turn mercosur agriculture even more towards productivist agriculture, to the detriment of the small farms that exist in these countries. a balance must therefore be struck so that this agreement does not transform the latin american and european continents into superpowers based essentially on the dogma of mercantilism.
mr president, i would simply say that perhaps we have not done our agenda today well. if we allow products to enter europe under free trade agreements which do not meet our social norms or our environmental standards, then the reform of the cap will be useless. it is very clear that we cannot continue to live in hypocrisy, where on the one hand we impose environmental constraints on our farmers, health and safety traceability, on the grounds that we must protect consumers, and on the other hand we allow products that do not meet these standards to enter our continent freely. the question behind the negotiations with mercosur is precisely this. and the way things have been initiated, whatever we are told about the fact that parliament has been very well informed and that things have happened in the greatest transparency and clarity, does not lead us to give a positive assessment of a negotiation that is being conducted, while at the same time the negotiations at the wto are continuing. in the name of consistency, in the name of defending consumers and in the name of defending our farmers, i do not think that we should continue down this road.
mr president, commissioner, a french socialist politician said: 'when you are politically in the minority, you are legally wrong.' you understand that we consider the warrant no longer valid. the mandate must be renewed, commissioner, and i regret the absence of the council, which is also responsible for giving the necessary instructions. i would also like to draw your attention to the political quality of mercosur. in business, the most important element is trust. what is the political quality of mercosur in dealing with the european union? we have three regions in the world: there is the european union, which wants to make integrated trade, the north american free trade agreement and mercosur. mercosur almost dissolved at the 2007 summit. countries do not agree on membership. venezuela almost didn't join. how can we deal in such a politically unstable area? first of all, we must ensure the political stability of mercosur and then we will conclude trade agreements.
in writing. the resumption of negotiations with mercosur, decided unilaterally by the european commission, does not bode well for european agriculture, which is experiencing an unprecedented crisis. apart from the fact that no political debate was held before the reopening of these negotiations, this agreement clearly affects our european agricultural interests. no new agricultural concessions are therefore possible after the offers already made in july 2008 under the doha round. at that time we had already reached a 'final limit', so going beyond that would be killing our agriculture. if this is not the commission's morbid intention, i wonder how it will be able to ensure that the eu does not pay twice! the best response to the economic crisis, against any temptation to protectionism, is trade openness, but not at any price and not at the expense of the eu. as a member of the committee on international trade, with the power to approve or disapprove the eu-mercosur fta, i will oppose a minimum bilateral agreement which would sacrifice european agriculture and which would make little satisfactory progress for the rest of the european economy.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the strong points of this report is the need to achieve the necessary coherence between the common commercial policy and the common fisheries policy. in this context, we can only be pleased to see the commissioner for fisheries, maria damanaki, our usual interlocutor, and the commissioner for trade, karel de gucht, on the commission's benches today. two commissioners for one report, what an honor! i would like to say that i am surprised and flattered by the commission's unusual double representation. let us return to the report itself. imports of fishery and aquaculture products from third countries account for more than 60% of community consumption. this very worrying level of import dependence in the european union is the result of a twofold phenomenon: on the one hand, a decline in community production and, on the other hand, an ever greater opening of the community market to imports, through the trade policies pursued by the commission over the last ten years. these developments are creating difficulties for community fishermen who, paradoxically, find it difficult to sell their catches at sufficiently remunerative prices, while the supply is lower than the demand for most species. european fishermen accept the environmental, social and health constraints imposed on them, but they are bitter about the fact that they do not apply in the same way to products imported en masse from third countries. what is at stake here is simply the survival of an economically viable european fisheries sector, providing jobs throughout the sector, providing safe and good quality food and contributing to the maintenance of the cultural identity of our coastal regions. the survival of european fisheries is not negotiable. we are essentially asking for: first, that the european union maintain significant tariff protection for fishery and aquaculture products, which allows the value of the preferences granted to certain third countries, particularly developing countries, to be maintained, and for the wto mechanisms to ensure the supply of our processing industry to be effective. we must remove these products from the real swiss-style tariff mills by requiring them to be treated as sensitive products. secondly, the trade preferences granted to certain third countries must be conditional on compliance with strict environmental, social and health standards, which is a minimum. thirdly, we are asking for the transfer of the main responsibility for conducting trade negotiations on fishery and aquaculture products from the commissioner for trade to the commissioner for fisheries. this will allow better account to be taken of the specific nature of fishery and aquaculture products. i think this is a particularly good time to review the terms of this fundamental debate. we are indeed on the eve of a major reform of the cfp. on the other hand, we see a deadlock in the doha round of the wto, which allows us to reconsider some inappropriate concessions that the commission was about to make on behalf of the european union. moreover, at the initiative of commissioner de gucht, who is here, the european commission has just opened a public consultation period with a view to formulating new guidelines for the common commercial policy, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. the european parliament is now a co-decision-maker in both trade and fisheries policy, and it is keen to make its voice heard and its views respected in these matters. i believe that this will begin with the commission and the council taking the recommendations contained in this report seriously into account. in any case, we shall be very vigilant in the months ahead and i personally intend to continue to work on these issues.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr cadec and the ep committees that have sponsored this own-initiative report. you have regretted that the green paper on the cfp reform did not pay enough attention to the issues you raise here. my objective today is to reassure you that the commission is committed to the work, taking into full account all policies that would have an impact on the cfp reform. as i have already stated, the purpose of the reform is to turn around the negative spiral we are in now. we have a fisheries sector that is neither ecologically sustainable nor economically performing well. we need robust fisheries that ensure sustainable exploitation of the resources while allowing our fishermen, their families and the communities involved to make a decent living from their activities. we need fisheries which are ready to meet the challenges of the market: both national and international, and both currently and for the future. i hear your concerns about unfair competition from third countries and the absence of a level playing field in terms of social conditions, environmental and sustainability requirements and health protection laws. let me tell you that this same concern was voiced by all the member states which took the floor at the last agriculture and fisheries council. so here we need an answer. while we are changing the rules for european fisheries in the context of our cfp reform, one of the biggest challenges we will have will be precisely to do our best in order to secure a level playing field for all products placed on the eu market. in this respect, for instance, we should all work together to fully and effectively implement our legislation against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. i would also like to say that we remain committed to promoting the respect of all international principles and instruments of good maritime and fishery governance by our partners, as well as their responsible behaviour in terms of environmental protection and social conditions. i strongly support your call for an increased coherence of our policies. we need to work together with a global and integrated vision. two thirds of the fish consumed in europe, as we have already mentioned, are already imported in order to ensure a steady supply of raw material to our processing industry and fair prices to consumers. yet one third of the eu market is still supplied by an eu sector that represents jobs and this part of the social fabric of many regions in europe. so, while we are in the middle of a serious reform of our common fisheries policy, eu trade policy should continue to take into account the complex nature of the eu’s fishing sector and its economic and social realities. i look forward to working closely together with my colleague mr de gucht in order to secure the necessary time for the adjustments that are needed, taking into account the pace of the ongoing cfp reform. with reference to wto negotiations, we are paying particular attention to the ongoing discussions on subsidies. it is our view that we should always be able to support environmentally friendly and innovation-oriented initiatives of our member states. concerning the revision of the market policy, i agree with the draft report that the new market policy of the cfp should revisit the instruments of the current common market organisation. the revision should aim at strengthening producer organisations in their ability to better link the supply to demand in terms of quality and volumes. it shall also support market supply and stability and review provisions of marketing standards and information to consumers. this brings us to labelling. consumers want to know more about the seafood they buy. they want to know where the fish was caught or raised; also they want to know whether the products respect the environment and whether they have been fished sustainably. the commission is ready to work on legislative initiatives aiming at giving consumers the information they need. finally, a word on aquaculture. the commission is fully committed to achieving the objectives of the strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture, as we have already discussed in the ep report. we also share the view that developing aquaculture in the eu can lead to reduced dependence on imports and better respond to constantly rising consumer demand. before closing i would like to stress that today’s debate will provide an important contribution to the preparation of the cfp reform, but it will also send an important political signal – a positive signal – to the men and women of the european fisheries sector, who are prepared for tougher discipline but are also expecting a message of hope for their future.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the european parliament’s decision to prepare an own-initiative report on the import regime for fish and fishery products. the debate opened by the european parliament provides a good basis to start reflecting on how to address trade negotiations in the context of a reformed common fisheries policy. i would like to invite the members of the european parliament to take into consideration the following observations on the issues raised in the draft ep report. the commission is aware of the particular nature of the fisheries sector and its importance, especially for coastal communities. this sensitivity is taken into consideration in the implementation of the common commercial policy. i would like to highlight that the eu’s trade policy has to reconcile the diverse interests of the various parts of the fisheries sector affected by the policy, including producers, processors and consumers. the commission’s goal when pursuing its trade policy for fishery and aquaculture products is to achieve a balanced result between, among other things, an adequate supply policy, the situation and interests of eu producers and the demands of consumers, while taking into account potential development policy objectives. we all acknowledge that the eu is strongly dependent on imported fishery and aquaculture products to satisfy its market demands, represented not only by consumers, but also by the processing industry. given the existing trends and potential increase in dependence, the current reform of the common fisheries policy is a good opportunity for the eu to reinforce the economic performance of the sector and its ability to compete globally. we should not ignore the likelihood that broader globalisation will continue in the future given current global trends in international trade, both at multilateral and at bilateral/regional level. in the context of free trade arrangement negotiations, the commission has taken, is taking, and should take into account the complex nature of the eu’s fishing sector during market access negotiations and ensure there is a balance between the diverse interests affected by trade policy, as i have just mentioned. in the context of these global trends in international trade, the commission will strive to secure the necessary time for the adjustments that will need to take place, taking into account the pace of the ongoing common fisheries policy reform. let me briefly refer to one of the main suggestions included in the report, which is the possibility of detaching fish products from nama in the framework of the dda. i will be very honest with you on this point. at this stage of the discussions, besides being very difficult to segregate fish products from nama, other approaches such as a specific negotiating group could result in the eu coming under enormous pressure to further liberalise its market. the commission takes due note of the draft report’s call for the responsibility for the negotiation of fishery and aquaculture products to be transferred from the trade commissioner to the fisheries commissioner. according to the principle of collegiality which governs the commission work, all the members of the commission are jointly responsible for decisions and actions taken. this also means that the trade commissioner and dg trade, who are responsible for negotiations of fishery and aquaculture products, do not act alone, but negotiate in close cooperation with the maritime affairs and fisheries commissioner and dg mare and with their direct involvement at all stages of the negotiations. the commission wants to reassure the ep that the specific needs of the fisheries sector are taken into consideration in the course of trade negotiations. indeed, the commission defends the interests of the eu sector in trade negotiations and takes into account its sensitivities as far as possible, even when faced with strong pressure from our trading partners. in defending the interests of the eu fisheries sector in trade negotiations, the commission also seeks to remove any trade barrier maintained by our trade partners that might threaten the export potential of the eu industry, with the aim of ensuring a level playing field in bilateral and multilateral trade in fish products. finally, the report voices concerns from stakeholders as regards ensuring a level playing field for eu products and third country imports. the eu is firmly committed to promoting both labour and environmental standards in the context of trade negotiations with third countries in parallel to market opening – for example, in the framework of a sustainable development chapter included in our trade agreements or in a number of international fora where these issues are addressed, such as the un, fao and regional fisheries management organisations, where the eu is an active participant. i would like to conclude by showing my willingness and availability to further discuss with the honourable members of the european parliament the commission’s role in trade negotiations as far as fishery and aquaculture products are concerned.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, i think it is worth noting the convergence of the committee on fisheries and the committee on international trade of this parliament on the findings and proposals made in this context. that said, fisheries is an extremely important sector for spatial planning, employment and cultural identity in europe. it is also a sector which today has an extremely strong impact on fisheries resources, and a very large majority of stocks are now being significantly overfished. and we are too often led to believe that the ultimate aim of a common european fisheries policy is to adapt the fisheries sector to the globalisation of trade in fishery products, the effects of which are now being felt to be extremely severe, both socially, economically and, of course, environmentally. we are therefore actively advocating a much stronger integration of social and environmental criteria in trade agreements when it comes to fishery products. we support the idea of removing fishery products from the amna, because a fish is not a sock or a washing machine, it is an absolutely essential issue in terms of food security, in terms of biodiversity. but we have to be clear. as soon as we bring this into the international negotiations, our european policy must be exemplary, we must go towards more fishermen, better paid and not overexploiting stocks, in our territorial waters as well as in the territorial waters where we buy fishing rights.
mr president, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mr cadec, on his excellent work. the text put to the vote today marks a certain change in the attitude of our institution towards the concept of free trade. the line advocated here, although not protectionist, is less naive. we all agree that european production is not enough and, rather than relying on the import variable above all else, we must first step up our efforts to safeguard and regenerate stocks, including through the use of aquaculture, to ensure the sustainability of the sector and its jobs in the union, and a european fisheries that is less dependent on the outside. as regards imports, we must ensure that the european market for fishery and aquaculture products is not subject to unfair competition due to less controlled health and social conditions and to derisory customs duties. that is why i am in favour of a european label, in accordance with our environmental and social standards.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i consider the behaviour of our colleagues to be completely disrespectful and unacceptable in a parliament like ours. it's outrageous what you're doing here! you embarrass me! you only think about one thing, voting and going home! we are working on an important report, so at least have the respect to listen to the people or get out of this room! in any case, ladies and gentlemen, after i have expressed my little anger, i have no doubt that in a few minutes you will be voting overwhelmingly in favour of this report and, given the opportunity, i would like to thank the members of the committee on fisheries, and in particular our chairman, mrs carmen fraga estévez, who agreed to take up this subject and to entrust me with this report. i would also like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs, mr capoulas santos, mrs reimers, mr gróbarczyk and mrs lövin, for their contributions to all the debates and amendments. i would also like to thank all those who have contributed to this report, the representatives of the sector who have made my research work possible, in particular the officials of dg trade and dg mare. i am thinking of zoltan somoguy and miriam garcia ferrer from the trade dg, pierre amilhat, christian rambeau and juan ranco from the mare dg, and i thank you, dear maria, for being here, and you too, mr de gucht, even though your answers - which are not answers because they preceded my remarks - do not satisfy me completely. in any case, i should also like to thank mauro belardinelli of our group, ollivier gimenez, my assistants emilie herrbach and vincent guerre, and a special mention to philippe musquar, who helped me a great deal with this report and helped me to draft it. i will end by thanking you in advance for your vote!
thank you. the report stresses the need to maintain the ecological and economic viability of the european union's fisheries, including non-industrial fisheries of a consistent scale in coastal waters, which help to preserve the cultural identity of the regions concerned, to ensure jobs at all stages of production and to ensure a safe and high-quality food supply. unfortunately, the reality is that latvian fishermen receive such small quotas and such small support from the european union that it is more advantageous for us to close down the boats and to stop fishing. it is a truly tragic situation, the traditional economic sector is being destroyed in a country with 550 km of maritime border. the european union's policy of supporting industrial producers, whose fishing practices are often more harmful to the environment, is damaging small-scale fisheries as a whole. that is why i supported this report, which calls for a change in the status quo.
in writing. the european parliament refused in february 2010 to sign an eu/us agreement on the transfer of financial data and called for the resumption of negotiations. today the terms of this agreement have been considerably improved in the interests of the european citizen. this time i therefore voted in favour of this agreement, especially since it provides for the establishment of a fully european data mining system in the long term. the agreement is therefore a provisional solution, allowing the european union and the united states to fight terrorism, but it cannot be definitive.
in writing. i have decided to abstain on the eu/us agreement on the transfer of bank data by swift in the context of the fight against terrorism. the agreement is a clear improvement on the previous version. the european parliament, after raising its voice, was able to obtain a number of guarantees that strengthen data protection and the rights of the persons concerned. however, the choice of europol as the authority responsible for the transmission of data is not, in my view, adequate. europol is not an independent authority, but a police agency which i doubt is in a position to exercise neutral control over the compliance of requests for data transmission by the us authorities. because of the highly sensitive nature of the personal data transferred, i could not therefore vote in favour of this agreement.
in writing. i voted for the alvaro report on the new swift agreement which details the conditions for the transfer of certain bank data stored by swift to the us treasury department in the context of the fight against terrorism. using the new powers it has been given since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, we have forced the commission to renegotiate a more balanced agreement with the united states. if this agreement is satisfactory, some points could still be improved. today's positive vote is not a blank cheque to the americans: parliament will be able to remain extremely vigilant in the coming months, particularly in the procedure for amending europol's powers, in the appointment of the independent authority present in washington, and in the establishment of a european tftp.
in writing. six months ago, the european parliament stood up for fundamental rights by rejecting the eu-us agreement on the transfer and processing of banking data - the so-called swift agreement. thanks to the efforts of the members of parliament, and in particular of our group, a new model has been developed. it includes substantive improvements such as the elimination of bulk data transfers. the rights of individuals will therefore be better protected while recognising the importance of financial data tracking in the fight against terrorism. that is why i have chosen to vote in favour of the new agreement. but i will continue to pay particular attention to the following: the prerogatives of the european data protection authorities and the choice of europol as the filtering authority; the effectiveness of the 'right to redress' of persons whose privacy rights have been violated; the monitoring and evaluation of the relevance of data transmitted to the us authorities.
in writing. today, after careful consideration, i voted in favour of the revised swift agreement. the compromise is not perfect, but we must combine the demands of the fight against terrorism with respect for civil liberties. secondly, this new version contains improvements, particularly with regard to the purpose of data transmission. as this is a sensitive subject such as the protection of personal data, i would have liked to see more rigour, particularly on the following points: the responsibility for verifying the compliance of requests with the law should be given to an independent authority and not to europol or the right to redress of persons whose rights have been allegedly infringed. in solidarity with my political group, which is responsible for the battle of last february and therefore for most of the progress, i have decided to support this agreement. i will be very attentive, along with my colleagues, to the implementation of the terms of this agreement by the united states, but also very vigilant about the commitments of the council and the commission. if the promises are not kept, i would be in favour of terminating the agreement when the time comes for a review.
in writing. i have followed the negotiations between the eu and the usa on the swift agreement with particular attention since the first rejection, thanks to the action taken by the alde group. and since february, the european parliament, firmly using its new powers, has been able to achieve a great deal of progress and additional guarantees: the 'twin-track' approach advocated by our group, regular reviews of the agreement, a first evaluation in six months, a progress report after three years, a right of access and rectification, the possibility of blocking the transfer of certain data, control by a european authority in the usa of the extraction of data... but while there is much progress, the agreement is not perfect and it also has many weaknesses. it is therefore after careful consideration that i have decided to vote in favour of this new agreement, because a legal framework for the fight against terrorism is necessary, and because we are moving towards a future european system of data transfer control which will allow data to be extracted from european soil. it is now up to the european institutions to monitor closely and vigilantly the implementation of the terms of the agreement.
in writing. i voted for the alvaro report on the eu/us agreement on the transfer and processing of financial messaging data in the context of the fight against terrorism, because i believe that this agreement now strikes a balance between security objectives, in the fight against terrorism, and freedom objectives, in the protection of citizens' privacy. unlike the swift agreement, presented in february, which i voted against, this agreement is more protective of personal data: citizens will have a right of access and rectification to data concerning them, their right to administrative and judicial redress is guaranteed, and several limitations and restrictions have been put on the transfer of data. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. i am voting against this report. it is an endorsement of us interference in europe with the complicity of organisations such as swift. it endorses the possibility of transferring to the united states the personal data of each citizen, given the wide scope of the agreement between the council and the united states. it does not ask for any real guarantees of the protection of this data and the possibilities of appeal. this report and the agreement it endorses are a symbol of the enslavement of this europe to american imperialism.
in writing. i supported the compromise negotiated by my colleagues elmar brok and guy verhofstadt with the high representative, the council and the european commission, and thus the establishment of the european external action service. this compromise was the subject of very long negotiations and now seems to me to be satisfactory and balanced. it enables the european parliament to strengthen its prerogatives and preserve the community method. above all, it was necessary today to ensure that the eeas was set up quickly, in order to make room for appointments and to get out of the unsatisfactory system implemented in recent months.
in writing. with the new powers it has acquired since the adoption of the lisbon treaty, the european union needs to rely on strong diplomacy. the european external action service (eeas) is a major step forward in this direction. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the eeas because the high representative needs to have a competent diplomatic arm quickly to carry out her mission. my decision is based on the conclusions of the madrid conference of 21 june last, at which an institutional balance was reached. the european interest of the original project has been preserved. the commission, the council and parliament will now be able to work together to set up an efficient and functional european diplomatic service. i am confident that the subsequent negotiations on the establishment of the eeas will respect this balance.
in writing. i welcome the agreement reached between the three european institutions and catherine ashton on the establishment of the european external action service. it is a balanced service in its organisation and composition which will be created to assist mrs ashton in her work as high representative of the european union. the european parliament's powers of political and budgetary control are also strengthened. i hope very much that this service will be used to the best of its ability and in the interests of the union. the community will thus demonstrate genuine political coherence and will therefore speak with one voice on the international scene. it will only be bigger and its action more legitimate and effective.
in writing. the proposal made by mrs ashton is unacceptable. it presupposes a uniformity of european diplomacy under its own dome and that of the commission, and the negation of the powers of the states in this field. this report has little merit in calling for all member states to be represented among the european diplomatic staff under mrs ashton and the commission. this is what we have become in this europe! ask for the right to remain silent, but fairly! i am voting against this text.
in writing. kosovo is part of a very sensitive geographical area, which requires the eu's constant attention. i would first like to point out the deplorable lack of coherence within the eu on the policy to be adopted towards that country, which is denounced in this resolution. five eu member states have not yet recognised kosovo's independence, which was requested in 2008. we therefore need a common political line, not only for the internal coherence of the european union but also for its credibility in the eyes of the outside world, particularly on such material issues as the issuing of visas. it seems to me that the process of european integration of all the countries in this region is an important element in the stabilisation of the region, which is in the interest of our whole community. as regards kosovo, the prospect of eu membership is a powerful catalyst for the implementation of the necessary reforms, including the human rights reforms that have already been initiated and which we need to encourage. i have not hesitated to support this resolution which takes up these important points.
in writing. five eu member states, including france, have not recognised kosovo's independence. it is therefore unacceptable to see a report today advocating the integration of kosovo into the eu. i also have too much respect for the people of this province to wish them to have to apply the copenhagen criteria in addition to bearing the consequences of the recent conflicts. i am voting against this unacceptable and provocative text.
in writing. by voting in favour of this draft resolution on the eu accession process of albania, i wanted to support its two main ideas. on the one hand, i support the idea of long-term membership for this country, which is justified in particular by the considerable number of efforts and progress made. the eu has taken good steps to combat corruption and to strengthen albania's democratic framework. on the other hand, much progress remains to be made in consolidating democracy or even in the sustainable development of the country. the political crisis that followed the parliamentary elections in albania in june 2009 showed us all that the country was still in serious trouble. that's why he needs all of our support.
in writing. it is out of friendship for the albanians that i am voting against this text. how can we wish them to join a european union which pursues nothing but the interests of its financial elites? no enlargement is possible as long as the eu advocates the competition of peoples and the defence of the interests of the privileged. moreover, the post-communist state of albania has shown little ability to combat organised crime, of which the country is an active platform. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution drawn up by the various political groups. the resolution stressed the need to release a larger amount than had already been paid to kyrgyzstan, in particular to respond to the united nations' urgent appeal to raise the $71 million needed for emergency aid. i also believe that it is necessary to provide the country not only with emergency aid but also with the tools to stabilise its situation and to prevent a repetition of such events. instruments must therefore be put in place for the assisted restoration of security in kyrgyzstan.
in writing. it is with strength and conviction that i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the member states of the european union, on the eve of the next international aids conference in vienna, to introduce new laws to provide affordable and effective anti-hiv medicines, to further encourage awareness campaigns in developing countries, to increase funding for research into new vaccines and microbicides and to combat discrimination against patients. more than 33 million people worldwide are living with aids, with very limited access to antiretroviral treatment, and i hope that these few recommendations will be followed at the international conference next week.
in writing. before the next international aids conference in vienna in july, it seemed to me essential that we members of parliament send a strong message to governments. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission and the council to step up their efforts to address the problem of hiv/aids as a global public health priority, placing human rights at the heart of prevention, treatment and support. the proportion of people with hiv who are currently receiving treatment is still too low, and legislation is needed to provide affordable and effective anti-hiv medicines. i strongly condemn the bilateral trade agreements which, in defiance of an agreement signed with the world trade organisation, continue to put commercial interests ahead of health. the resolution also stresses the need to combat any legislation which criminalizes the transmission of hiv and fuels stigma and discrimination against those affected. finally, the statistics on the proportion of women and girls affected have shown the failure of current prevention policies, which is why i believe it is essential to adopt a realistic approach, increasing funding for research into new vaccines and microbicides.
in writing. the convention on cluster munitions aims to prohibit the use, production, stockpiling and transfer of cluster munitions and provides for their removal and destruction. i supported the joint motion for a resolution which calls on all member states to ratify the convention in order to enable the union to accede to it. it is therefore essential to take the necessary steps to ensure that those countries which have not yet ratified the convention do so. for those member states which have already signed the convention, its entry into force is an opportunity to take the necessary measures to implement it, such as destroying stockpiles, removing weapons remnants and providing assistance to victims, etc.
in writing. the lyon report aims to secure and improve the future of the cap after 2013, in line with the context of the economic crisis and the serious financial difficulties faced by member states, taxpayers, farmers and consumers. the european union will thus have to respond to increased demographic pressure and to growing demand from the internal market. but as this report, which i voted for, makes clear, this is not simply an increase in production. the challenge for the cap and for our farmers will be to produce more food with less land, less water and less energy. several amendments were tabled in plenary. i voted in favour of amendment no 1, which stresses the high nutritional value of agricultural products. i voted against amendment no 2, however, which called for the abolition of the two-pillar structure of the cap.
in writing. we are at a pivotal moment in defining what the future reform of the common agricultural policy should be. this is a question that concerns europeans, of course, but also citizens of the world. that is why this reform must not be the business of experts, but of farmers and consumers. the general objectives of a new common agricultural policy must be reconsidered. europeans have new expectations for food. they want an agriculture that respects the environment, that is concerned with quality, traceability, food safety, carbon footprint. this new policy will also have to be part of a global vision. the challenge is to meet the doubling of food needs by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change. the world organization of agricultural markets must be re-designed in the light of the two main aims of the common agricultural policy: to guarantee food security and to save the livelihood of farmers and their families, both in our own country and in the poorest countries.
in writing. while i welcome this report which is concerned about the future of agriculture, i do not share the view that the cap has succeeded in achieving the objectives of ensuring a fair standard of living, stabilising markets, producing quality food at reasonable prices, developing rural activity, guaranteeing our health security and food sovereignty. the reality is different. just look at the state of a large agricultural nation like france, which shows in its accounts a 34% decline in income. as in the past, the cap after 2013 will not be able to protect our farmers from speculators and unbridled global competition, nor will it be able to counter the deviousness of the multinational agro-food industries and the retail sector. the post-2013 cap will remain stuck between the ultra-liberal and globalist market logic of the european commission and a future "green" cap, which is actually serving the neo-capitalists of eco-business. this is a logic which sacrifices our rural environment, not for the benefit of poor countries or the disadvantaged or desertified regions of europe, and which justifies the urgent need to renationalize the cap.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lyon report on the future of the cap, and in particular for the maintenance of the two pillars. the vote on the lyon report in plenary today is very important and symbolic, since the elected members of the european parliament are the first to take a stand and present their proposal for the cap after 2013. i have every confidence in commissioner cioloş that he will take the results of this vote into account in the proposals that will be put forward in november by the european commission. the main priorities of european agriculture, such as food security, market regulation and spatial planning, are clearly reaffirmed, as are the budgetary implications, which must be in line with the ambitions of the cap. measures to support biodiversity should not be forgotten. biodiversity must be at the heart of the cap's system, because its protection is no longer a luxury for the conservation of species and environments.
in writing. the text has the merit of acknowledging market failures and advocating for the fight against climate change. that's as far as his merit goes. despite the acknowledged shortcomings, the text promotes market liberalisation, farmers' responsiveness to market signals, the competitiveness of european agriculture on global and regional markets, and green capitalism. this framework is in no way a means of combating global warming, nor is it the carbon market, agrofuels and gmos that this text is taking advantage of. instead, it's promoting productivism and the devastation of local food farms here and around the world.
in writing. this own-initiative report, which deals with the import regime for fishery and aquaculture products (faps) into the eu, aims to advocate the maintenance of environmentally friendly and economically viable fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the eu in the long term. we are seeing an increase in imports of fishery and aquaculture products at the expense of our community production. i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to restore our community production. however, we are aware, as our rapporteur in the lead, that this must be done in a manner consistent with sustainable management; for example, the amount of fish caught must be limited in order to manage our natural resources. in addition, it seems necessary to promote responsible consumption in which quality and sustainability of production are paramount.
in writing. like agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture are not suited to a purely free trade approach. eu production is unable to meet european demand, which is already 60% covered by imported products. but we must ensure that the future import regimes in the eu strike the right balance so that european production, which is already in crisis, does not suffer from unfair competition with third countries. in the world trade organisation (wto) negotiations, fishery products should be considered as 'sensitive products' on the same basis as certain agricultural products, which would facilitate the maintenance of customs duties on imports from third countries. european fishermen would thus be protected by a reasonable and flexible customs duty and an eco-label. at the same time, developing countries must be able to develop their own fisheries. to this end, we must ask ourselves whether international agreements allowing the purchase of fishing rights from developing countries, allowing fleets from third countries to fish industrially along their coasts, depriving them of a huge part of their natural resources, are appropriate.
author. - madam president, first of all, i would say, in relation to this morning: 'at last a little calm and serenity in this house!' ladies and gentlemen, i supported the resolution on the human rights situation in zimbabwe, and in particular the case of farai maguwu, because our assembly cannot remain silent on the violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms that have been perpetrated in zimbabwe for several decades now. the director of the research and development centre, farai maguwu, was arrested by the authorities in his country after denouncing human rights violations in diamond fields. he was merely exercising his right to freedom of expression and his right to seek information on human rights and all fundamental freedoms. parliament called for his release and for zimbabwe to respect political rights and fundamental freedoms, so as to allow civil society to express itself without fear. zimbabwe must also strictly respect its commitments under the kimberley process on diamond production in order to break the vicious circle of financing armed conflict.
author. - madam president, the house is quiet, perhaps i would say a little too quiet, and i regret that there are not more of us who are interested in these questions. to say that the situation in zimbabwe is dramatic is unfortunately an understatement. it is a democratic state in economic and social terms, as well as in terms of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the last elections were held in a climate of terror. the arrest of mr farai maguwu, director of a research and development centre, after a meeting with mr chikane, the kimberley process supervisor, is therefore, unfortunately, only one more episode in the long list of human rights violations in this country. the conditions of exploitation of the marange diamond fields are particularly appalling: forced labour, torture, smuggling, even murder, all under military control, and for the benefit of mr mugabe's friends. they have been repeatedly denounced by ngos, including mr maguwu's. it is therefore not surprising that mr chikane submitted a positive report concluding that the operation of the site was in conformity with the requirements of the kimberley process. the interim conference in tel aviv was unable to reach a decision on the follow-up to this report. commissioner, can you confirm that the european union, in the absence of consensus among the member states, has indeed opposed the resumption of legal diamond exports from zimbabwe; it will continue to do so at the st petersburg conference and will fight for the extension of the kimberley process to include respect for all human rights; the commission will do its utmost to ensure that its member states take the necessary measures to prevent the import of diamonds from zimbabwe for as long as this situation persists. can you explain to us what mr chikane relied on to give such a green light, when it seems that some of his notes were seized in his files by secret service agents? the european union is the main contributor of humanitarian aid to zimbabwe. so his attitude must be exemplary. she must maintain her positions. can you tell us what the european union's position will be in st petersburg?
mr president, it is true that we in the conference of presidents took a decision for which i feel responsible, even though i was not able to be present individually, but i take responsibility. two points, however, should be noted. the first is that in the conference of presidents we propose decisions which we communicate when there is a group meeting. the group meeting at my house and in other political groups, with the colleagues i consulted, did not agree with the decision we had taken, perhaps too quickly, in the conference of presidents. i therefore propose that a new analysis be carried out within the bureau by the group chairmen present. you know, everyone wants change, but when you want to change something, it's not as easy as you say. that's the first thing. secondly, i would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of all the debates that have taken place here with the president of the commission. we can agree with him or against him, but there are 27 commissioners sitting in the benches - yes, in such debates all 27 commissioners are usually present - and president barroso is speaking, in front of the group leaders, and the chamber is empty. that is why i support the president of parliament in not applying what we had envisaged in the conference of presidents, in revising it, in discussing it again in the various political groups and in applying the old method, but in asking all members to be responsible for the great debate we are going to have tomorrow morning on europe, here in this chamber. i therefore ask for the bureau's wise analysis, perhaps a wiser one than that of the group chairmen who are here, and we will of course continue the democratic debate and that is how we will proceed. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, any free trade agreement must be based on the principle of reciprocity or mutual benefit and frankly i doubt that this is the case with the agreement on south korea. a figure: 50% of our current trade with south korea is in the automobile sector, but the european union imports 450 000 south korean cars and exports only 33 000 european cars. it is at least a highly unbalanced commercial relationship, and this at a time of extremely severe crisis. but this agreement will become a case law. there will be others before that with the big asian countries - i am thinking in particular of japan, but there will be others. it is also the first agreement to be drawn up after the treaty of lisbon, and it is therefore vital that the european parliament - and i support our rapporteur in this - should make its voice heard and be heard by the commission. and that is why in any case - i am not prejudging the vote on the free trade agreement - the safeguard clause must be tightened up and in particular the customs refund mechanism reviewed, a regional safeguard clause must be implemented, the role of the european parliament in the procedure must be strengthened, an ad hoc comitology procedure must be introduced which respects the rights of parliament and social and environmental standards must be integrated. finally, as you promised, commissioner, we do not want provisional application until the european parliament has finally voted on this free trade agreement. thank you for listening to me and, i hope, hearing me.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank all my colleagues on the committee on agriculture, and in particular the fictitious rapporteurs, for their support in this work. this report is part of our great debate on the reform of the cap, like mr lyon's report. we have managed to agree on a large number of compromises, which were adopted by a large majority in our group, 32 votes to 4. i think our message to the commission is clear: we all want more transparency in the food chain and legislation that guarantees fair competition between farmers and all the actors in the food chain. we also want concrete action in europe and elsewhere to combat speculation and abuse of market power and to provide income for farmers. i am surprised that, at the initiative of a few political groups in this parliament, we are being asked to vote tomorrow on a long list of separate votes which run counter to the strong and consensual message which we adopted by a large majority in committee. is it possible that the summer has changed your mind? i have the impression that the intensive lobbying of the retail trade and certain players in the agri-food industry in recent days is the cause of the plethora of separate votes. in any case, i cannot imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that you would give in to these pressures to weaken our common message. our committee has taken stock of the crisis affecting european farmers. it intends to propose concrete and strong measures: in less than ten years, the union has lost three and a half million agricultural jobs. the carnage is dramatic. bulgaria, for example, lost one farmer in two. in 2009, the revenue collapsed. in france and germany, farmers lost an average of 20% of their income, in hungary more than 35%. agriculture and the rural world are threatened with extinction. in december 2009, driven by the anger of farmers and the protests of dairy farmers, the european commission published a communication entitled 'a more efficient food supply chain in europe'. it shows that between 1995 and 2005 the share of value added in the food chain going to agricultural producers increased from 31% to 24%. prices paid to farmers are falling in virtually all sectors without benefiting european consumers. the commission states that these problems are linked to the increase in concentration at the level of wholesalers, processors and distributors, who impose their will on producers who are not very well organized. the commission is concerned about the lack of transparency in the formation of prices and margins. it recognises the difficulty of obtaining accurate and reliable data and admits that it does not have the information necessary to adapt its policies quickly and effectively. to remedy this, i propose that the commission set up a european observatory of agricultural prices and margins, similar to the one in the united states. this body will be responsible for determining the production costs of european farmers. it will enable us to know the real costs, when we leave the farm, of a litre of milk, a kilo of wheat or a kilo of beef. these indications will serve as a basis for negotiation between farmers and other actors in the food chain. the agency will also be responsible for assessing the sectors which capture the most value added at the expense of producers and consumers. the european commission would then be able to identify those actors who are abusing the balance of power and who are abusing a dominant position. it is also essential to get the 20 largest european companies to report annually on their market shares and internal margins. transparency is not a danger to the market economy. on the contrary, it is absolutely necessary to avoid the deviations which have been observed in agriculture and in many other sectors, especially in the financial sector. when the farmer sells his milk or his meat, who can claim to be on an equal footing with a multinational company that weighs on the formation of commodity prices at the level of world markets? the balance of power is totally unbalanced, some would say unfair. to put things right, a first emergency measure would be to allow farmers to form producer organizations. the second, complementary, is the prohibition at union level of the sale of goods below cost. forced discounts, ex post modifications of contractual terms, unjustified referencing fees are commonplace. they are a blow to farmers and the thousands of small and medium-sized processing companies, which have to go through the large distribution system to market their products. the european commission must identify the extent of these anti-economic practices and take the necessary measures to put an end to them. finally, speculation on agricultural products is a scourge. the investors and speculators are looking for a price and immediate profits. poverty, hunger and starvation are synonymous with profit. we thought we wouldn't have the riots of 2008. but it is not. since june, the price of wheat has risen by more than 70%. the corn, soybean and rice farmers are doing the same. last week in maputo, mozambique, seven people were killed because they were protesting against a 30% increase in food prices. are we going to sit around and do nothing, like two years ago? we are not going to tolerate investment banks bankrupting european farmers and destroying the people of our planet. i call on the european union to take the initiative in creating a global market regulation agency. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to send a strong signal that the new cap is fairer for european farmers and consumers, that fair competition is established between the players, that it creates a regulatory framework for the markets and that it excludes speculators. it is the responsibility of the european parliament, on the eve of the exercise of its co-decision in agricultural matters, not to give in to any pressure, wherever it may come from. our message must remain clear and consistent.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of farmers in the union survive on a meagre income and are, moreover, constantly subject to the stress of irrational speculation on the financial markets. most farmers are convinced that they have no future. they are one of the most affected by suicide. if europe continues to impoverish its farmers and agricultural workers, this will lead to their disappearance, with terrible consequences for land use, quality of life and food independence. this will fuel an ecological crisis with effects even more dire and faster than the melting of the greenland ice sheet. the text is full of good resolutions and interesting proposals, although it is not very clear what the root causes of the current disaster are and therefore there are radical solutions to be found. the problem is not only to ensure that farmers and agricultural workers, who are largely forgotten in this resolution, receive a fair income, but also to achieve a level of income and a price that will enable the whole agricultural world to live off its labour. we must point the finger and punish, if necessary, the large retailers and the financial funds behind them, for their reckless pressure to lower prices, but also for the slow settlement of debts, the funds that speculate on food production, exposing our people to great risks, and the role of the banks in the difficulties of the peasants. it is a report that is moving in the right direction, but it is not the only one.
madam president, i would also like to welcome the work done by the rapporteur, mr josé bové, and the commissioner, as well as the speech by mr dess, who spoke before me, on the objectives of this report. i think it is very important to bear in mind that in this debate we are dealing with a problem of price volatility in agriculture and, above all, with the fact that when prices rise, they are very quickly reflected at the level of distribution, and when prices fall at the level of production, there is no reflection on the consumers. there is a problem of organization of the sector, there is a problem of distribution of the so-called added value within the sector. i think that the josé bové report offers, on several points, perspectives which must be highlighted. and here i am really addressing the commission to try to break out of this fundamentally negative spiral. the first, of course, is the organization of the sector and the balance of power within the sector. what proposals are we making so that producers, united and organised, have more say in the sector to negotiate? the question you raised, commissioner, of interprofessional relations, but also the question of the contractual basis that will be put in place. and i am advocating - and this is in the report - that this contractual basis should have a european framework. we cannot leave it to each country to solve this problem. there must be a european framework. it has to be flexible, but it has to exist. it's a proposition, a lead, inseparable from me. secondly, of course, the question of price transparency. i am therefore in favour of setting up this observatory, which is absolutely necessary if we are to inform consumers of price developments. i support the proposals that have been made and i hope, as mr dess has said, that there will be a majority to follow the rapporteur's proposals.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report which has been entrusted to our colleague mr josé bové deals with a subject which is of vital importance to society today, from the consumer to the producer. the commission's figures speak for themselves, commissioner: 20 years ago, milk producers received 31% of the sector's turnover, which was then just over 450 million euros. today, they receive only 24% of turnover, a turnover of just under €550 million. other examples are fruits, meat, etc. clarifying the formation of prices is therefore now an essential precondition for reforming the common agricultural policy. if we do not do this, the cap will appear to the public and to the farmers themselves as a bottomless pit. the cap's profits are now being siphoned off, to the benefit of whom and what? we have a duty, ladies and gentlemen, to be clear about this. the producers are no less well organized than i hear from some twenty or thirty years ago, but the number of people they talk to has increased and their numbers have decreased even more rapidly than the number of farmers. the chain has also grown longer. this situation requires adapting competition law and supplementing crisis management tools on markets, which no longer seem adapted to the new architecture of the supply chains linking producer to consumer. finally, there is the specific question of quality products, particularly in relation to imported copies. we need clarity. your services are examining the operation of the french price and margin observatory. it is perfect but it is already rich in information on the formation of consumer prices and on the niches where margins are hidden. i would like to commend the work also done by our fictitious rapporteur, mrs köstinger. there are attacks here and there today. one of the honours of our parliament is to respect different points of view. it is also the honour of the epp group. everyone keeps their voting rights. i shall not be calling into question my vote in the committee on agriculture.
mr president, the josé bové report makes a lot of reference to the obstacles faced by farmers in their primary function, which is to feed the world while earning a decent and fair income for themselves, their wives and children, not only during their working life but also at retirement. the global food crisis is a reflection of the dysfunction of the agricultural and agro-industrial sectors. the evidence is clear: because of speculation, producers earn less and less money and consumers pay more and more for their products. moreover, our farmers are subject to stringent standards, whereas free trade agreements allow agricultural products to enter european territory without being subject to comparable standards. so if the current market rules established by the wto do not allow farmers to live a decent life, and the peoples of the world to eat a healthy diet, then those rules need to be reformed because they no longer meet the requirements of ...
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am a philosophically liberal. in economics, i believe in the virtue of the market and competition. but to those in this house who think that agriculture can be treated by the same usual market rules, i say this: do you know of any other sector as important as agriculture in the economy that has such unpredictability and such possible variation in its prices? some european farmers, it has been said, have seen their incomes fall by 50 per cent. who here would want to see their income split in half? who can say that this is a dignified and fair situation? besides, these prices are crazy, they're for everyone. they prevent farmers from benefiting from increases and they prevent consumers from benefiting from decreases. so yes, the real question is price legibility; it is the value added of work. in my mind, mr president, agriculture is not a nostalgia for a bygone era. agriculture is the guarantee of the future. it is the guarantee for europe of a regular and guaranteed supply of its 500 million inhabitants. now, who here knows of a single great country in history that has not been concerned about its food supply? we must do for agriculture what has been done for the financial sector. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. europe, my dear colleagues, needs its farmers. and i want to tell mr bové that he has my vote and, i am sure, the vote of many epp members.
mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the work of the committee on agriculture and, therefore, mr bové. the volatility of food and raw material prices creates great difficulties for our farmers. their average income fell by more than 12% in the european union in 2009, with peaks of minus 50% for some incomes. our farmers must be able to earn a living from their work on the one hand and to produce food that meets high quality standards at an affordable price for the consumer on the other. our three challenges are therefore: to guarantee farmers profitable volumes and prices so that they can produce in a stable, safe and, above all, profitable way, with a view to their future income; to improve the balance of the food chain and price transparency in the interest of the consumer; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the policy benefits farmers and consumers and not other links which are currently complicating the sector. the report by mr bové, thanks to the work done in the committee on agriculture, is balanced. it offers some solutions to the challenges i have just identified. in my view, new market regulation is needed, based in particular on better integration of the various links in the chain. strengthening producer organisations, proposing standard contracts in certain sectors, encouraging self-regulation initiatives, these are good ways of working in my view. it is also essential to promote quality products and sustainable production, and for this we need a credible european system, quality labels and signs. the agricultural market needs regulation, but it needs proportionate and intelligent regulation.
member of the commission. - mr president, after this long debate we have seen that there is almost unanimity on the question raised by mr bové's report on diagnosis. a problem needs to be solved to increase the efficiency of farmers' work. and, as we have seen, there are differences of opinion on how to do this, on the extent of the reforms. in any case, one thing is clear to me: the fact that the common agricultural policy has been in existence for more than 40 years now is also proof that the agricultural market needs rules in order to function. and these are rules which do not prevent the market from functioning but which, on the contrary, make it more efficient and, ultimately, contribute to the achievement of the ultimate objective of the agri-food sector, which is clearly defined by the lisbon treaty: to ensure the supply of food markets and, at the same time, to ensure a fair income for agricultural producers. in this sense, i think that thinking about regulation does not necessarily mean planning the economy and planning production. but rules are needed, as they are needed in the food production sectors. we realize that perhaps the whole food chain needs to be considered. i am also well aware that if there are points which can be addressed in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy in order to provide answers to some of the questions you raise and perhaps even to incorporate some of your proposals, i should probably work as a collegiate with my colleagues in the commission to ensure that this issue is addressed more generally, particularly in relation to points which go beyond the field of agricultural production. this is a necessary task, because if we can be proud of our agri-food sector today, of our agri-food industry, which is one of the most important, if not the most important industrial sector in the european union, accounting for 13% of jobs in the european industrial sector and 14% of turnover, it is also because we have a strong agricultural sector producing raw materials. this relationship between agricultural production and the agri-food sector must be clarified so that the final result is to the advantage of the consumer but also of the producers, so that production can continue. i will not go into the details of the issues that have been raised, but i will just assure you, and assure mrs köstinger, who is now gone, that the proposals i will be putting forward for the reform of the cap will come soon, in november. i'm not a secret believer. the thinking process just takes its course. but you can be sure that these reflections are aimed at supporting a european agriculture which is both competitive and sustainable and which is spread over the whole of europe. it is precisely to achieve this that agriculture must be considered not only in relation to its territory but also within the food chain. i look forward to the final vote on this report and i can assure you that some of these proposals will be included in the proposals the commission will be presenting for the future of the cap.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i am pleased with the debate we have just had, in which a very large number of members have had the opportunity to speak, and it is true that at this hour, on the first day of the session, we are rather numerous for this debate, which shows the interest of all the groups in the work of the committee on agriculture. what is important to me is that the work we have discussed, the text which will be voted on tomorrow in this house, is a collective text. this was noted by a number of speakers. i am the rapporteur, but this text was drawn up collectively in the committee on agriculture and rural development, and i think it is very important. each one came with his own reflection or his own story and we collectively built this proposal. i think it's important to stress that. it is my name on this report, but it is a collective report and i wanted to reiterate that. several speakers stressed the need to ensure farmers' income through the sale of their agricultural products. it's the very basis of agriculture. the farmer is paid for the sale of his products and the fact that it is said that today a farmer cannot sell below production costs is the essential and indispensable condition for there to be farmers in europe tomorrow. agricultural policy can support and maintain agricultural activity in the territory and combat distortions linked to natural handicaps or regions. so there is a reality: there will be no common agricultural policy if the farmers do not first live off their production. the farmers are the first to demand this and parliament has just said so. the second point which seems to me to be clear from the debate we have just had is the need for transparency throughout the food chain. all the interventions have been on this point at different levels, particularly in relation to processing in negotiations with producers, or with the large distribution which, often, as in fruit and vegetables, grabs incomprehensible margins. all this is now accepted, and there is no longer any doubt about its necessity. many speeches have also been devoted to the question of speculation, and i shall not go into that. so i will say that once the vote has taken place tomorrow in the plenary session - and i think all the speeches have shown the collective will of the committee on agriculture to take this report forward and to convince all our colleagues - once the text has been adopted, voted on tomorrow, the ball will be in the commission's court. and i want to say to the commissioner: "it is now up to you to make it happen. this is an initiative that we are taking. we're making you some proposals". we naturally expect the commission and the council to take up this task now, since it is obvious that parliament alone cannot do anything. on the other hand, together we will be able to build a new common agricultural policy, but, above all, we will be able to build hope for european farmers.
in writing. the own-initiative report by josé bové deals with the very important issue of farmers' incomes. since 1996, food prices have risen by 3.3% per year, while farmers' prices have risen by only 2.1% and farm costs have risen by 3.6%. as an elected representative, i am fully aware of the difficulties, sometimes insurmountable, faced by french and european farmers. european aid, when it is one-off, following crises in particular sectors, cannot improve the situation of farmers in the long term. that is why the parliament's agriculture committee has chosen to produce this report on farmers' incomes, which is an urgent appeal to the european commission to analyse the food supply chain in depth. the opacity of practices is a brake on resolving the important tensions between the various actors, and attempting to correct imbalances for a more equitable distribution. farmers want answers to the inconsistencies observed by the institutions themselves.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, a huge wave of protests and concern is rising about freedoms in iran. we want to give our support to all those democrats who want the word justice to have meaning. we strongly condemn the arrest and conviction of zahra bahrami. we strongly condemn the arrest and sentencing to stoning of sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani. we ask for their release. we want to stress the need for all states to adhere to the values and principles of secularism, to avoid any confusion between state and religion leading to an unacceptable and liberticidal amalgamation of sin and crime. we wish to reaffirm our support for the abolition of the death penalty in all countries and therefore call on the iranian judiciary to establish a moratorium on the death penalty, to unambiguously prohibit executions for adultery and to abolish the use of torture in accordance with international law.
madam president, the case of sakineh, who of course brings us together here tonight and who has mobilized many citizens in europe, should also allow us to speak about the situation of a number of women. i think particularly of zahra bahrami, who is in the same situation. she is threatened with execution following a trial which took place under similar conditions, i.e. she was subjected to pressure, isolation for several months - total isolation - violence, torture to obtain confessions which are then obviously no longer recognised. the charges are similar - enmity against god. she was not represented by a lawyer or a lawyer. there is also the case of ibrahim hamidi, mentioned earlier, a minor who also has no lawyer, and the case of shiva nazar ahari, a human rights journalist. amnesty international considers her a prisoner of conscience and she is currently locked in a cage where she cannot move her legs or arms. she's also in danger of death. i think that our parliament is honoured to be involved in the sakineh case and in all these situations. we demand the abolition of the death penalty, a moratorium on all executions, the immediate release of all those who have participated in peaceful protests and, of course, the release of minors, because in this country many minors are also sentenced to death. we also urge that the international committee of the red cross be allowed to visit the prisoners.
madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of our colleague, mrs rachida dati, who drafted this resolution on behalf of the epp group and who, unfortunately, was defeated in paris today. mrs dati has tabled this resolution for two reasons. the first, of course, is that she wanted the european parliament to join the international organizations, the governments, the personalities around the world who have stood up in defence of sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani, to ask the iranian authorities to reverse her death sentence by stoning. an institution like the european parliament, which has always been at the forefront of the protection of human rights, simply cannot remain silent and must intervene to say forcefully that it does not want sakineh to die. parliament must say, by this resolution, that it is not an interference to remind everyone of the universal values which constitute our common heritage. the second reason for this resolution is that, beyond the particular case of sakineh, rachida dati wanted to signal the european parliament's strong commitment to combat all forms of violence against women. it so happens that sakineh has become, despite herself, a symbol of all these women who have been victims of violence. our colleague ria oomen-ruijten then drew our attention to the case of zahra bahrami, the dutch national who was arrested in iran and forced to make a televised confession to admit the charges against her. that is why we have included it in this motion for a resolution. we must be the voice of these two women who, where they are, can no longer defend themselves. i just ask you, on behalf of mrs rachida dati, to vote massively to send both support and a signal to those who inflict such sentences.
madam president, we have heard encouraging news from the basque country in the international press. one of the main actors in the armed conflict, eta, has just taken a public initiative in favour of a political and peaceful solution. their declaration calls for an end to military action, which goes beyond the media-reported ceasefire, and implies the establishment of international control in which the european union must take its full part. in northern ireland, the european union has already made a decisive contribution to the establishment and subsequent consolidation of the 1998 peace process. in the basque country too, the european union must face up to its responsibilities, which are great, so that the hope which is being reawakened today is not hindered by all the prejudices which the conservatives systematically put forward. the european parliament must make sure that it seizes every opportunity to ensure that peace finally progresses in the basque country, which is at the very heart of the european union. madam president, i would like to reiterate that the basque conflict is taking place in the very heart of the european union. it is a dangerous abcess for democracy and the union has every interest in actively contributing to a peaceful solution.
madam president, we have just had an exchange, but i would like to emphasize once again the situation of sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani, who is sentenced to death by the iranian authorities, threatened from one day to the next with the barbaric ritual of stoning. she was sentenced this weekend to 99 additional lashes for publishing a nude photo in a british newspaper. but it was another woman's picture, and the newspaper's apology did nothing to change the new conviction. a great solidarity movement has arisen to save sakineh and denounce these abhorrent practices. what country in the 21st century can write in its penal code the size of the stones that must be thrown at the condemned to shoot him? iran is that country. only international and political mobilization has been able to prevent the stoning in recent years and will bring down the iranian regime. we have a duty as political leaders, as citizens, as human beings, to prevent what would be nothing less than murder. i therefore ask that the european union mobilize to save sakineh.
madam president, mrs parvanova's report on the social integration of women belonging to ethnic minorities comes at a particularly opportune time when the french government is embarking on a vast expulsion operation against the roma - men, women and children - the poorest and most discriminated against citizens of europe. roma women are subject to double discrimination on the grounds of their origin and their sex. discrimination in the exercise of the fundamental rights to education, employment and health. the violence they suffer as women is another form of discrimination. we must demand that all member states respect the fundamental rights of the largest ethnic minority in europe, and above all of these women. forced labour, trafficking, forced sterilisation, early marriage, and many abortions are characteristic of the lives of these women, and it is not by chasing them from town to town, by moving them from one end of europe to the other, that their condition will improve. each member state, including france, must ensure the protection of these women and the education of roma boys and girls. it's the key to their freedom and autonomy. to do this, they need stability and support and expulsions are unacceptable.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we are happy presidents this morning and you have shown that you can be present without penalty. that's what democracy is. thank you all. (applause) i would like to thank what is the state of the european union? what have we succeeded in doing together in recent years and what have we failed to do? what are our plans? what political means and, above all, what financial means will we have to achieve these goals? this debate, mr president, is welcome and i am glad that parliament and the commission, the two community institutions which represent and defend the general european interest, are involved this morning in this exercise which the epp group wants to see moving forward. europeans sometimes, if not often, ask themselves what europe is really doing to meet their problems and expectations. at the same time, all the polls have shown for years that they are not asking for less but for more europe. more europe on migration: the roma issue, which calls for a long-term european strategy, is a perfect illustration of this in terms of respect for the human person. more europe to represent them in the world. how can we, for example, justify our absence from the negotiating table between israel and palestine, when we are the leading donor in this region? (applause) i would like to thank the europeans don't understand that and they're right. our citizens are also aware that we need more europe, not less, to ensure our security, whether it be the security of people, energy security or food security. they know that europe must coordinate more to create growth and jobs, as you so well described, to regulate markets and to prevent further speculative attacks. they understand that we also need more europe to reduce inequalities and to strengthen our european model of society, our social market economy. we need more europe, not to interfere in the details of everyday life, but to tackle together our common challenges in a much more effective and, i will come back to this, more cost-effective way. as i said, our fellow citizens are asking why europe is not more efficient, more organized, more listened to in the world. they legitimately expect the economic and financial efforts required of them to bear fruit and to pull us all together to the top. we need more european governance. it is up to us, parliament and the commission, to work towards this, to convince the member states to work together, to invest together. it is not to undermine the sovereignty or prestige of our states. on the contrary, it is the only way to prepare seriously and effectively for the future of 500 million europeans and future generations. i therefore ask the commission, you, mr josé manuel, and every single commissioner to take even more initiatives to propose the measures and reforms we need in europe to make things work better, and to explain these plans to our fellow citizens. i hope, together with my group, that parliament will support this effort by using its new prerogatives as co-legislator with the council. it is not just a question of power, it is a question of understanding and it is a question we must discuss if we are to move europe forward. mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be ambitious, we must also measure the distance travelled. i believe that on a number of important issues europe has nothing to be ashamed of in its actions in recent months. it was the bank that took the initiative to reform financial markets after the wall street crisis in the autumn of 2009. it is europe which, after suffering unprecedented speculative attacks last spring, has taken equally unprecedented steps to strengthen and rehabilitate its economy. the first effects of this policy are already being felt, but more needs to be done. europe has also played a pioneering role in the fight against global warming. the copenhagen conference has left us with a bitter taste. our ambitions remain unchanged and the course is now irrevocably set. we can be proud of that. what must we do in the months and years ahead to consolidate our action, to strengthen the confidence of our fellow citizens in our joint action? i'll suggest three ways. the first is to strengthen our economy, to reduce inequalities through a series of measures that promote the return of investment, the confidence of entrepreneurs, the possibility of developing new outlets that create wealth and jobs. commissioners, mr president, we must break the rules, as you said, at the level of crossborder workers. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century we should still have draconian rules which have nothing to do with the reality of europe. the second is to show more seriousness in our common foreign policy and to become, as you have repeatedly said, a more respected player in the world. we cannot simply explain that europe is complicated, that it takes time and that we must be patient. we cannot be satisfied with being the world's largest donor without being able to guarantee that the aid we send reaches the recipients in mr putin's and mr obama's helicopters. i think we have to be serious about this too. europe is one of the world's leading powers and its first priority, in my view, must be to build relations on an equal footing with its main partners and in particular with the united states. i have already said this here when speaking of our transatlantic relations. but i also want to stress this morning the importance for europe of building strategic and targeted relations not only with russia but also with china, india and brazil. i hope that the external action service will be an effective instrument in this respect and that we can save our individual states money if we put this instrument into place. the third way to ensure that the european construction is up to the challenge is to deal with the nerve of war, money. i know we still need to discuss this in depth. will we continue to invest in innovation and research on our own? for education and training? for security and defense? for our energy policy? will we continue to see that while the united states, china and india are able to advance basic and applied research and position themselves in the markets of tomorrow, we europeans are too hesitant to pool our resources in order to achieve economies of scale and a leap forward in terms of efficiency? we are currently forcing our researchers to leave europe. it is essential that our researchers want to come back and stay in europe. these are the real questions which we, the parliament and the commission, mr josé manuel, must put on the table when we start negotiations on the financing of european projects for the period 2014-2020. these are the questions our fellow citizens are asking and they are looking for serious answers. the time has certainly come for europe to have its own resources. let's not be afraid of words. and the question of a european tax must not be taboo. it is not a question of creating a tax on top of national taxes, but on the contrary of achieving economies of scale and ensuring that public funds are better spent overall and thus, in the end, reducing the burden on households and businesses. mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european and international dimension is obvious to the younger generations, who do not expect us to make long speeches but to provide solutions to their problems and prospects for their future. ensuring that 15 to 25 year olds have access to education and training must be our first objective. to clean up our public finances and invest in innovation, to create new opportunities for them to exercise their talents in europe - and not necessarily elsewhere - these are the priorities that must guide our action and on which our citizens will judge us. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you must make proposals to us, and i will repeat the words of a man whom you all know, john paul ii: 'let us not be afraid.' to move europe forward, for our fellow citizens, for the epp, we will be with you if you make good proposals. i would like to say one more thing, since i have a few more seconds: first, make good provocations, which go very far, and we will be able to come up with good proposals for our fellow europeans. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am doing what guy verhofstadt did, taking all my speaking time at once. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that martin schulz and guy verhofstadt have pointed out the fundamental difficulty of our situation and i regret that you have not had the lucidity or the veracity to point the finger. since the lisbon treaty, there has been a struggle over the interpretation of the treaty. i think that most governments had not read it and, once it was put in place, they discovered that the lisbon treaty was in fact a means, an instrument for the communitization of european policies. and the struggle that is taking place - we have seen it on foreign services, we have seen it on the situation of financial regulation - in all discussions, it always comes to the same point, which is the following: are we going - and this has been said, and this is the point of debate - towards an intergovernmental europe or towards a strengthening of community europe? that is exactly the situation in the union today. and what i dream of is that the commission should say so publicly. there is a political battle going on in the european institutions at the moment, and this political battle is about the interpretation of the lisbon treaty and this has consequences for european policies. the european citizens must know what we know, what we feel in the interinstitutional debates. and you, mr barroso, did not say anything. this brings me to my second observation. this commission is the champion of europe in general declarations. the most beautiful statements. but when it comes to pointing the finger, describing a situation that attacks a member state, naming someone by name, a government by name, you are the champions of absenteeism. you are not real. and i can give you a bunch of examples. i'm going back to greece. everyone knows, you knew for years before the crisis, two, three years ago - there were reports that you have, that are in your drawers - that the situation in greece was escaping you. no official word yet. you went to church, you prayed, and you believed that by praying, things would work out in greece. it's not resolved. and then you supported and we supported in the majority an incredible pressure on greece, on the greek people who made mistakes as much as the greek elites. but at this moment, mr barroso, when we are putting this pressure on the greek people to solve the problem, i have not heard you comment on the fact that today, in august, there were negotiations between the greek government and the big french and german arms companies to continue the sale of arms by european companies to greece. (applause) i would like to thank we're completely crazy, i've said it three times, four times, but are we going to act? do you know how much money greece has spent on armaments in the last ten years? what's the number? 50 billion euros in ten years! mr barroso, you knew that. one of the problems of these countries is precisely this structure, which is linked to a european problem of nationalism and the fight, the debate between greece and turkey. where is the commission's initiative, the european initiative, to intervene so that, precisely by integrating turkey, we put an end to this stupid debate which is costing the greek people billions for nothing and three times nothing, because greece is buying the weapons which france and germany no longer need for their armies. that's very clever! that is my example, mr barroso, of your commission's failure to intervene. i can give you a second example. it was donated by guy verhofstadt. today, what is happening with the roma is in fact the test of the credibility of the charter of fundamental rights, which is part of the lisbon treaty. and, to take a moral and philosophical approach, i quote albert camus: "democracy is the defence of the minorities, not simply the execution of the will of the majority". (applause) is the commission waiting? does she have a report in her drawers? say it publicly, that what france is doing contradicts the european treaties. it's easy to say and it's easy to say. (applause) i'll give you another example of what you're not saying. you talked about the economy, unemployment, you talked about growth. you haven't said a word about the necessary change in the nature of growth. you didn't say that the ecological disaster, the climate breakdown, was forcing us to reinterpret our notion of growth. nothing about that. you didn't mention cancun. we're three months from cancun. not a word about the fact that if we want to be credible on climate change, we have to take back the 30 percent co2 reduction, be at the forefront of the debate on climate change. on that, mr president, you are to the absent subscribers. that is why i would like to say that you are the absent president of a europe that needs a president. that is our problem and the situation of the union. and i'd like to end by saying something to you. for example, you spoke about european investment - you can look at the time, i have three minutes left, i know it's annoying, but that's life. i just wanted to say, take this seriously. 40% of co2 emissions in europe are from buildings. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause) i would like to thank and that's kind of my message. there is a great debate in europe about whether public investment is needed. i say to you, mr barroso, put keynes in brussels. public investment must now be a european investment in the ecological transformation of our economy. do you understand that, mr barroso? if so, i hope that in the next speech on europe you will show that you understand that we are no longer in the 1970s but that today we are facing the financial and ecological crisis. and i'm going to end with a number that we all need to think about. the losses due to the crisis amount to 50 000 billion euros. this represents five centuries of public investment in development aid. that's 10 billion building schools in african countries. that is also the situation in the world, mr barroso. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i shall use my two minutes to try to take up some questions and answer them. no personal attacks, you know me, i won't and i never have. first of all, as regards the budget and what we have agreed together, the vast majority of parliament agrees that we should have our own budget so that we can reduce resources at the level of the member states. this is the first summary i have made, but let us not forget that this is a unanimous decision. it is not a question of criticizing our heads of state and government or lagarde or schäuble, it is a question of convincing our respective parties, as josé manuel said, it is a question of discussing and working this matter well, each at his level, each in his party, and each in his country, since these are unanimous decisions. it's gonna be a lot more complicated than making big speeches here. but we are going to fight, and i am going to fight, to have our own resources at european level. (applause) i would like to thank secondly, as far as the roma are concerned, let's call a spade a spade. my dear friends, mr president, we are responsible people, we must find solutions. this is the mayor of the town. we are facing enormous problems with our fellow citizens who are great democrats and we risk putting them in the camp of the populists. that is our duty. there is still a very high crime rate. i didn't say it was the roma. don't make me say what i didn't say. the great banditry, the delinquency, the prostitution, these are the things that must be fought. eleven tractors have been stolen from farmers in my town since january 1st. you think people are happy? see what is happening in our various communes! ladies and gentlemen, this is a very sensitive issue which we must handle with caution for all our fellow citizens and - i am not having a national debate, i am having a european debate - i agree with josé manuel barroso on this point. we must work on this issue to propose solutions with the roma in this parliament and also with romania and the other countries concerned. i think the case is too important. if we can get the children of these immigrants to have access to education and training, we will have won the battle in ten years. that is what i propose at the level of discussion.
mr president, the state of the union for us in france today is the citizens, the people, and the streets that are roaring with discontent. our fellow europeans are experiencing an unprecedented crisis of confidence and have decided to move at the pace of refusal, demand, but also hope. the issue is a failed pension reform proposal, but not only that. that's the challenge of ageing with dignity. the challenge is to ensure intergenerational solidarity, which will enable young people today to enjoy their working time and professional life, with a pension they can enjoy. on the same issue, mr barroso, the commission published a green paper on the reform of pension schemes, which triggered a wave of concern from the trade unions before the summer. the proposal you have made to raise the retirement age seems unrealistic to me. it would be more useful if the commission indicated how to ensure that workers can keep their jobs until the legal retirement age. i would like to hear your proposals and i would also like to hear more details on what you have called fiscal consolidation rather than the economic coordination of our member states, which seems to me to be geared towards social solidarity.
madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation facing the roma - expulsion, denial of freedom of movement in europe - is unacceptable and contrary to european values. but this is just a symptom of a much bigger and more global problem. it is only a reflection of a disease of our so-called modern societies, which is the forgetfulness of brotherhood. no, humans are not commodities that can be stored and unstored. our policy as the european union on the movement of people within the union and on the entry and exit of third countries is unacceptable. we cannot continue with this policy of a europe under siege and cold. the free movement of persons is fundamental. it has always been, and it has built our present societies. today, equality is no longer assured as regards the movement of european and non-european citizens. while european tourists and pensioners travel freely and en masse to the south, particularly the maghreb, citizens of these same countries are subject to a lack of mobility. schengen visas and their application by european countries is inhumane. the major traffic jams prevent citizens from the south from coming to the countries on the northern shore as tourists, as friends or as members of their families. mr president, how will you, in a bold and concrete way, enable us to reconnect with our values on this issue?
in writing. i very much enjoyed president barroso's state of the union address. he's drawing up some perspective. i regret, however, that relations with the member states were not addressed to give citizens the necessary assurance that the strategies will be well implemented. citizens are lost in the global, national, community, intergovernmental and so on. i welcome the proposal for an investment fund which would make it possible to move towards an investment strategy for the union for the next 10 years: a plan of €1 000 billion over 10 years is within our reach for a union which is not investing enough. the time has come to tackle the fate of our continent, europe, collectively: we have 27 armies and no enemies, a customs union and 27 customs administrations, etc... etc... i regret that the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, is not present at the debate. i suggest that the state of the union should be brought before a body to be set up which could be the congress of the union composed of the european parliament with delegations from the parliaments and governments of the member states to involve the member states closely in the destiny of the continent.
mr president, the report by our colleague mr zwiefka shows a great deal of skill and considerable work in the search for existing legislation, international conventions, especially the hague convention, and case law, which, it must be said, sometimes presents contradictory aspects. but in reality this report solves only part of the problem. if there is any area in which european legislation would have full legitimacy, it is in the harmonization, not of substantive laws, which would lead to the uniformity of the law in all the member states, but the harmonization of the rules of conflict of jurisdiction, first to know which court has jurisdiction and, secondly, the harmonization of the rules of conflict of laws, that is, which law is applicable. what is the law applicable to contracts, including when people are in different places? in the case of property, whether real estate, movable or intangible, such as industrial property? in the case of contracts, even where the parties are in different locations? all this, mr president, should be regulated by a european code. as long as we do not have this european code of private international law, we will be in a lot of trouble, and this report has had the merit of partially solving it in terms of exequatur.
in writing. i voted for the report by my polish colleague lydia joanna geringer from oedenberg on the proposal to codify the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of october 1968 on the free movement of workers within the european union, which was amended in 1968, 1976, 1992 and twice in 2004. in april 1987 the commission instructed its departments to codify all acts at the latest after their tenth amendment, stressing that this was a minimum rule and that, in the interests of clarity and proper understanding of the provisions, the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible at even shorter intervals. despite the accelerated procedure resulting from the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994, i regret the delays in the codification of european law, both for citizens and for the member states, in particular their administration, for the legal and judicial professions, for law professors and law students, etc. there are still too many provisions which, having been amended several times, are scattered in part in the original act and in subsequent amending acts. 1 and
in writing. this proposal for a regulation lays down the measures necessary to protect the euro against counterfeiting. among other provisions, it provides for the obligation for credit institutions and a number of other economic agents, such as cash handlers, to check the authenticity of euro banknotes and coins they receive and intend to put back into circulation and to ensure the detection of counterfeits. the absence of a common framework for the authentication of coins results in practices which differ from one member state to another and cannot therefore ensure uniform protection of currency throughout the community. i worked closely with mr binev on this draft regulation as rapporteur for my political group. like him, i support the european commission's proposal, which i have approved by my vote.
in writing. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european parliament takes its full place in the european legislative process. the adoption of this report will inform the european parliament of any proposed amendment to the statute for delegated acts (article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). this is an important point because the european parliament must be able to take part in the debate on the technical adjustments which may be necessary in the list of goods benefiting from a temporary suspension of the autonomous duties of the common customs tariff on imports of certain industrial products into the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores.
in writing. to provide a framework for judicial cooperation in criminal matters, to facilitate investigations, to combat effectively crossborder crime: this is the object and purpose of international agreements on mutual legal assistance and in this case the agreement on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the european union and japan. the difficulties that a 'european investigator' (a judicial, police, customs authority, etc.) would have in seeking evidence in a third country are easily imaginable; the european union is also a major player in the fight against crime and today, globalisation and crossborder crime require cooperation between states, a regulatory framework, an 'operational interface' between the european union and third states in the criminal field. the added value of this agreement is undeniable: investigations, the acquisition of evidence, the collection of testimonies, the obtaining of 'bank documents', the identification or tracing of persons are just some of the areas where cooperation is now envisaged, under the auspices of the european union and japan, for greater efficiency and speed. the european parliament has therefore given its approval without difficulty to the conclusion of such an international agreement, and i warmly welcome this.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this very good text which was voted on by a large majority in our assembly. as rapporteur for the opinion on trade registers for the committee on the internal market, i would like to stress the importance of such work. data on trade within the european union is crucial for the proper development and growth of our common market, and i look forward to the commission's legislative proposals on this subject. a mandatory participation of all member states in a common trade register would be beneficial to the union as a whole. however, this could only be done by taking care not to add additional administrative burdens to our businesses and by preserving the privacy of data which must be, in order to preserve a climate of trust.
in writing. the financial crisis continues to plunge europe and many parts of the world into stagnation, without politicians considering the keys to a way out of the crisis. and many of them even think that we just need to turn our backs for a while and the situation will return to what we had before september 2008. i don't agree with that. if we do not integrate the environmental option into our thinking pattern, the same causes will have the same effects. the environment is a chance to develop a new model of development. the sources of employment are considerable if we empower ourselves to be leaders in the sustainable economy.
in writing. the european union's cohesion policy plays a key role in developing the employment potential of a sustainable economy by helping to reduce regional disparities and boost the economy. in this context, the regional and local levels should make greater use of the european structural funds to take initiatives to create new sustainable jobs. the erdf contributes to the formation of regional clusters by bringing together research, innovation and infrastructure in the field of new technologies at local level. local and regional authorities are best placed and most competent to create the conditions for the growth of these centres, which can give a major impetus to local economic development and create new jobs in the regions. smes also play a key role in promoting innovation in europe. they should be encouraged to use the european social fund to develop entrepreneurial attitudes and skills. however, the lack of coordination between european, national and regional funding systems is an obstacle to the achievement of these objectives. it is therefore necessary to improve coordination at all levels in order to achieve greater synergy between the various common policies.
in writing. the development of green jobs in europe is a necessity. on the one hand, they support sustainable growth and on the other hand, they contribute to the ambitious numerical targets that the eu has set itself in the fight against climate change. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs elisabeth schroedter, which supports the introduction of measures to encourage them. in order to increase their numbers, companies must be encouraged to invest in clean technologies - i am thinking in particular of the introduction of tax relief for smes. the regions must also be encouraged to use the european structural funds and the cohesion fund to create new sustainable jobs. but it will be necessary to ensure that national training and education systems are adapted to meet the demand for skilled workers, as well as to ensure the re-skilling of those whose jobs are threatened by these structural changes in the economy.
in writing. free trade agreements allow the countries that sign them to enrich themselves through trade in a wide variety of products and to express their respective comparative advantages. i therefore look forward to the forthcoming conclusion of the free trade agreement between south korea and the european union. however, there is still a need to be extremely vigilant about the terms of trade agreements being prepared. in this context, any excessively rapid and potentially destabilising developments in trade flows must be avoided. to do this, a safeguard clause must be put in place, in particular to protect our car industry. in concrete terms, i welcome the adoption of this report because the european parliamentarians ask that in the event of import surges an investigation be opened at the request of a member state, the european parliament, the internal advisory group, a legal person or an association acting on behalf of the union industry and representing at least 25% of it, or at the initiative of the european commission. if it is found that european producers are suffering serious injury as a result of a large increase in imports of the product concerned, safeguard measures may be taken in the form of protective customs duties.
in writing. the european parliament has approved amendments to the safeguard measures that will accompany the free trade agreement (fta) with south korea. however, this is only a partial vote, the final vote having been postponed to the 18-21 october part-session, in order not to close the door to an agreement at first reading with the council. all the impact studies of the european commission already show a comparative advantage more favourable to korea than to the eu. the least we can expect from the commission is to present us with a credible safeguard clause. we believe that our request for regional safeguards should be taken seriously, because the impact of opening up to korean products can vary considerably from one member state to another in a market of 500 million inhabitants, whereas the impact of european exports to a country of 50 million inhabitants is much more predictable. it is equally essential to include a right of initiative of parliament and the industry concerned for the opening of a safeguard investigation, as well as an increased role for parliament to decide whether or not to take safeguard measures.
in writing. this agreement is the first trade agreement to be concluded after the treaty of lisbon, the first agreement to be endorsed by the european parliament, so it is important that the european parliament is heard. to mark the assertion of the european parliament's new powers in defining eu trade policy, we therefore voted the amendments proposed by the parliament's committee on international trade (inta), but we decided not to vote on the text of the resolution as a whole, in order to try to reach a better agreement with the council. a better agreement, for which several main points will have to be revised: we want a real safeguard clause, an effective clause which will cover regional distortions between the different states of the european union and which will above all prevent situations where a 'serious damage' to producers in the european union could occur; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. our farmers must be able to earn a living from their work, on the one hand, and to produce food that meets high quality standards, at an affordable price for the consumer, on the other. the report by mr bové, thanks to the work done in the committee on agriculture, is balanced and proposes some solutions to these challenges. strengthening producer organisations, proposing standard contracts in certain sectors, encouraging self-regulation initiatives, these are good ways of working in my view. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in every agricultural crisis, this demand comes up again with insistent insistence from farmers and consumers alike: finally establish transparency of farmers' prices and incomes along the entire agricultural production chain. this report does exactly that, and we have every reason to be pleased with it. i regret, however, that the proposal to give preferential treatment to cooperatives, smes and producer groups in public procurement failed by only a few votes.
in writing. this report on food prices and farmers' incomes in europe was adopted by the european parliament on tuesday 7 september. this report is the result of a broad consultation of all the political groups, with a significant contribution from the epp. i welcome the proposals made to the european commission to give producers more say in their negotiations with distributors. i join the rapporteur in calling for european competition law to be adapted to avoid abuses of dominant positions. i think it is appropriate to propose the creation of standard contracts containing volume and price clauses, which will enable farmers to enjoy fair incomes. we need new market regulation, which gives the common agricultural policy the instruments to cope better with crises. as with fishery and aquaculture products, i am very committed to promoting quality products and sustainable production. it is therefore essential that products imported from third countries comply with the same requirements as european products, in order to avoid unfair competition.
in writing. the european parliament calls for fairer incomes for farmers as part of a better functioning food chain. the constant fall in farmers' incomes is unacceptable when, at the same time, the profits of the other players in the supply chain, the multinational distribution and marketing companies, are increasing. we therefore call on the european commission to take a number of concrete measures (combating dominant positions, unfair commercial and contractual practices, late payment, etc.) to restore a transparent, efficient economy, which guarantees a fair price for production and allows farmers to live off their activity.
in writing. the objective of a policy in favour of agriculture should not be merely to guarantee affordable or cheap prices for the consumer. it should also be to guarantee fair remuneration for farmers' work, to give priority to short circuits, to encourage consumers, producers, processors and distributors to think 'local and seasonal', quality products, etc. and to put an end to certain practices of large-scale distribution or intermediaries. we have had the opportunity to repeat this here many times: agriculture, because it feeds people, because it maintains landscapes, because it is the foundation of civilizations, is not an economic activity like any other. as such, the rules of competition, and especially the rules of international trade, should not be applied to it. it is scandalous to see agricultural raw materials, on which human lives depend, treated as financial products in highly speculative markets. mr bové's report is a step in the right direction. it is a pity, as the europeanist majority in this parliament demands, that it still largely fits within the erroneous conceptual framework of the european union and its dogmas.
in writing. i voted with determination for this text which calls on the european commission to take concrete measures to ensure that farmers receive fair incomes and that the food supply chain in europe is more efficient. this is an important vote because farmers do not receive a fair return for their produce and are often the first victims of sometimes abusive commercial practices. this text is a step forward because it indicates that the bargaining position of all the players must be rebalanced and that fair competition must be established everywhere in the food markets, in order to guarantee a fair income for farmers and ensure price transparency for consumers. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which is an important step forward for farmers and consumers. indeed, if we want to maintain a dynamic agriculture and if we want to have a good quality food supply chain in europe serving consumers, farmers must get more for what they produce.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because the effects of 'contract' farming imposed by buyers are likely to weaken the bargaining position of farmers. new legislation is therefore needed to enhance the integration of primary producers with the other links in the chain and to ensure price transparency for consumers. the proposal to create standard contracts with volume and price clauses would allow producers to strengthen their bargaining position with the downstream. such model contracts could be useful instruments to prevent practices such as contract modification, late payment, and resale at a loss. in some sectors, such contracts should even become compulsory.
in writing. i voted for the bové report on food prices because we must ensure farmers' incomes while protecting consumers' purchasing power. the recent crises in many commodities, such as milk, have highlighted the plight of many farmers. the selling prices are falling and the producers are no longer able to make a decent living. at the other end of the chain, consumers never benefit from these price reductions when they occur, whereas, on the contrary, when prices rise, particularly because of speculation, these increases are immediately reflected in the final price. greater transparency in the role of intermediaries, and in particular of large retailers, is particularly urgent.
in writing. i am glad that this report makes the point of the disastrous state of european agriculture, but i am also sorry that the only proposal that is being made is to have more and more europe, more european laws and europeanist and bureaucratic interventionism. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. a policy which has failed and has exacerbated rural desertification, the quasi-monopoly and unfair practices of the big distributors and buyers, the various forms of speculation which ruin our farmers. while it is more than necessary to support farmers to enable them to have a fair income in a food supply chain that is both secure, more efficient and of higher quality, common sense would also want this to be done at national level. we must renationalize the cap and not reinforce the liberal and globalist logic of the european commission
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support workers, mainly in regions and sectors that have been disadvantaged by the opening up of the global economy. it is a potential annual allocation of €500 million for the reintegration of workers into employment. the financing and operation of the egf must be improved: they must be simplified in order to make its mobilisation easier and faster. that was the meaning of the amendments i tabled in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on this report. the gef must be an effective tool in a european social policy which is sometimes failing. i therefore believe that it should be maintained, while simplifying it, and i have therefore supported mr portas' report.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund aims to offset the negative consequences of globalisation for the most vulnerable and least skilled workers who have lost their jobs for economic reasons. this is all the more necessary in the current economic crisis. the added value of the globalisation adjustment fund is the visible, specific and temporary nature of its financial support for personalised vocational reintegration programmes. it is essential that the derogation introduced in june 2009 to help workers who lose their jobs as a result of the economic and financial crisis be extended until the end of the current multiannual financial framework. in order to speed up and simplify procedures, it is also necessary to ensure more effective coordination between the commission and the european parliament, so as to reduce the time taken for decision-making. the commission should therefore take parliament's timetable into account and inform it in good time of the difficulties it encounters in assessing member states' applications. finally, it is desirable that the commission should be more accountable for the use of the fund by regularly transmitting to the european parliament information on the implementation of financial contributions by the member states.
in writing. in the context of the mid-term review of the union's financial instruments, i voted in favour of this resolution because the committee on budgets has drawn up a report on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), a scheme to support the reintegration and retraining of workers for whom the link between redundancy and globalisation or the economic crisis is clearly established. for us socialists, the analysis of this report has revealed a sharp divergence of analysis between the right and the left. it is essential, from the socialist point of view, to make this fund sustainable, because globalisation has negative consequences for our entire industrial fabric, even beyond the crisis. on the contrary, the right-wing view is that this fund should be limited in time, to 2013, because globalisation can only be virtuous in its eyes in a stable economic context.
in writing. i voted for the portas report. i support its main objective, which is to make the egf sustainable, because beyond the crisis we are going through, globalisation has long-term negative consequences for our industrial jobs, which the european right refuses to accept. i also helped to amend this text so that smes and subcontractors are taken into account when the egf is granted. their employees are particularly vulnerable because of their dependence on multinationals, so it is essential that the egf offers them real prospects for vocational reintegration in the event of redundancy. i am also pleased that there is recognition of the need to carry out studies on the state bodies responsible for preparing the dossiers, in order to optimise the use of the egf, which is often unknown and little used, particularly in france. the european right has refused to extend the egf beyond 2013, so i will be mobilizing in the debate on the next financial perspective of the eu to ensure that it is maintained permanently.
in writing. as the mobilisation of funding for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation or the financial crisis should be accelerated, i voted in favour of a set of recommendations to improve the procedural and budgetary arrangements of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). this fund was established in 2006 but few applications were submitted, partly due to a complex intervention and co-financing criteria. that is why my colleagues and i wanted to make changes to this mechanism. this text therefore represents considerable progress, as it calls on the commission to simplify the procedure further in order to address the most obvious weaknesses and calls for a reduction in deadlines. in addition, until now, the fund has been financed from different budget lines. the text proposes a separate line for this in the 2011 budget which is an important development. i therefore welcome the adoption of these recommendations, which are essential at a time when our fellow citizens are being hit by the economic crisis.
in writing. although it is a rather technical report, the one we adopted yesterday in the european parliament's plenary session is very important in the ever more intensive construction of a european area of freedom, security and justice, a european judicial area and thus in the consolidation of the european internal market. the brussels i regulation has made enormous advances in the judicial field: it determines the courts with jurisdiction in civil and commercial matters in the event of crossborder litigation and governs the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters from other member states. the aim is to revise the regulation to modernise its provisions and to improve certain procedures: communication between judges, authentic instruments, arbitration and, above all, the question of exequatur. without going into detail on these complex legal issues, i look forward to the revision of this regulation, a revision which will allow for better legal protection of european citizens: a better 'free circulation' of judgments and judicial decisions, more 'mutual trust' between the courts and judicial systems of the various member states, in other words a strengthening of legal security in europe and the rights of citizens.
in writing. by voting on tuesday 7 september 2010 on the own-initiative report on the social inclusion of women from ethnic minority groups, the european parliament is at the heart of the current political debate. the question of the integration of minority groups in the member states is indeed crucial and deserves the involvement of the european institutions, especially as we are still a few months into the year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which is helping to stimulate debate at european level and has the merit of linking the problems of the integration of minorities and the fight for equality between men and women.
in writing. it is not possible to advocate 'acceptance of different cultures' and communication for women and other minorities in their mother tongue and at the same time claim that one is promoting the social inclusion of these minorities. this is a fundamental contradiction, because the minimum requirement for this "inclusion" is to share with the host society a minimum common base, namely a common language and basic codes of "living together", starting with respect for the laws and social practices of the host country! the only distortion you make of the deeply communitarian logic of this report is to acknowledge, by way of circumlocution, that violence or discrimination cannot be justified on the grounds of customs, traditions or religious considerations. open your eyes: the worst violent and discriminatory practices are not the work of europeans. polygamy, circumcision, fibulation, the treatment of women as inferior beings... are the work of communities who refuse to respect our laws and customs and even try to impose their own on us. and this is the consequence of the mass immigration policies that you have imposed for decades on our fellow citizens. it's time to end all this!
in writing. i voted for the parvanova report on the social integration of women from ethnic minority groups. discrimination is unfortunately cumulative, and ethnic minority women suffer the most. the text calls for eu policies to have a better analysis of the gender discrimination suffered by these women. they must be able to participate actively in society, and for this they must have access to education and the labour market, because these are the guarantees of their emancipation.
in writing. in this report, ms pietikäinen recalls that women are traditionally more at risk of poverty and a low level of retirement, for various reasons, such as the high gender pay gap, the cessation or interruption of their professional activity to devote themselves to family responsibilities or the fact that they have worked in the spouse's company, especially in the trade and agriculture sectors, without pay and without social security affiliation. i can only agree with that. as the president of women at the centre, i regularly fight to draw attention to the sometimes overlooked social inequalities, of which this one is in my opinion one. as we debate the reform of our pension systems, it is essential that differences in treatment between men and women be taken into account.
in writing. i voted for the pietikäinen report on the role of women in an ageing society because while women have a longer life expectancy than men, they are more at risk of poverty as they get older. we see this in france today with the debate on pensions, wage inequalities and possible career cuts or interruptions for family reasons, their pension levels are being cut even further. the text recalls that a transversal anti-discrimination directive is more necessary than ever.
in writing. in the face of an ageing european population, balancing national pension systems and managing dependency pose considerable challenges for the eu. europe must act quickly and strongly to avoid a rapid weakening of its social model and a growing impoverishment of the elderly, especially women, since women are statistically more likely than men to live in poverty. i support the report by sirpa pietkäinen, which calls in particular for action to be taken to combat age discrimination in the world of work more effectively, especially for women. i am also in favour of promoting solidarity between generations, for example through programmes to help women who look after their grandchildren while their parents are away on business. finally, i support the idea of bringing more coherence to social security actions, particularly with regard to pension schemes, family support leave and parttime work patterns.
in writing. the emergence of a european public sphere is crucial in my view. this is not a purely theoretical debate but a question of democracy, in which the european union is putting its legitimacy at stake. the media, but also the new social networks, are the key to a thriving european public sphere: we members of parliament must report on our mandate to the european citizens, through journalists but also through our websites, facebook accounts, twitter, etc. better communication about europe is now a priority and i fully support this report, which draws attention to the media's responsibility in this area but also to that of the european institutions which must facilitate as much as possible access to and the dissemination of their work.
in writing. to teach about europe is to deconstruct the simplistic and systematic process of the favourite sport, which is to repeat the eternal slogan: "it's brussels' fault". at this stage, some explanation will be helpful. governments, political parties, educational institutions and public broadcasters must take part in this process and thus make a greater contribution to explaining european issues to the citizens. the new means of communication can revolutionize european democracy. let's move!
in writing. the declining turnout in the last european elections has once again demonstrated the urgency of increasing efforts to bridge the gap between the eu and its citizens. the economic crisis which the countries of the union are currently going through also requires real support and deep confidence in the european institutions on the part of its citizens. in this context, the treaty of lisbon, with the launch of the citizens' initiative in particular, promotes a more democratic union, which cannot, however, be envisaged without the establishment of a comprehensive communication policy. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which encourages the creation of a public sphere in europe. this responsibility naturally lies with all of us: meps, members of national governments, political parties, educational institutions and public broadcasters. but a word of caution is necessary, more communication is better communication. the creation of a european public sphere must be based on reliable, factual and independent information. this demand for quality also requires the development of a pedagogical approach to information which makes the functioning of the european institutions more readable and therefore more attractive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the løkkegaard report on the role of journalism and new media in creating a genuine 'european public sphere'. we have said it again and again: it is urgent to overcome the distance between the european institutions and the citizens. the european parliament has been the most important institution in the world for the last decade. it should also be noted that all the indicators of the degree of confidence of europeans in the european construction seem to be in the red for the time being. the latest eurobarometer is particularly telling in this regard, with over half of the respondents having a negative view of their country's eu membership! what is interesting is that at the same time, expectations are huge, because over 80% of people say that the eu is the solution to the problems. to explain more clearly what europe is doing, how and by what means, and thus to disappoint less, the priority is to improve communication and coverage of european news. i would like to stress, however, as the text we have adopted emphasizes, that this exercise should take place in a context of trust, respect for editorial independence and freedom of the press.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mrs reding, i must say that i fully share the dismay of mr swoboda and mrs weber. it is absolutely astonishing that after the various interviews you have had and the documents provided to you, you have reached this level of ascertainment, that is to say, of not ascertaining the objective violations committed by the french government in the expulsion of the roma. and this is not new: a year ago a group of associations approached you on issues that are relevant today, for example the failure to respect the one-month deadline laid down in the directive on freedom of movement for the return of european citizens. as regards the right to individual examination, do you need any more experts to conclude that the distribution of collective border controls in a camp with the same titles is contrary to individual examination of situations? are six-year-olds a threat to public order? do you need any further proof, after the french courts and tribunals have ruled on this case, that the french government is making absolutely extensive and abusive use of the threat to public order? if you need magistrates, experts, ngos, we can provide them. but stop, stop being in this denial of reality, of not taking responsibility! the debate this morning was outrageous. we heard the chairman of the largest political group in this european parliament speak about the roma, about the tractor thefts in his commune. the president of the european commission, mr barroso, was heard speaking about the need for security for european citizens in the debate on the roma. that is to say, at the highest levels of european and french political leaders, the confusion between roma, crime, prostitution and trafficking is increasing. in doing so, it is the fundamental freedoms, the european project itself, that are at stake. mr cohn-bendit said this morning: this is your test, mrs reding; this is the test of the lisbon treaty; this is the test of your usefulness. will you be able to demonstrate in this situation that the charter of fundamental rights is anything but pipe music? it's your responsibility, it's your responsibility, and now is the time to say it. (applause from the left)
mr president, i am not defending the french government. mr sarkozy and mr hortefeux were members of the european parliament. they should have known that the treaties they supported - the maastricht treaty, the amsterdam treaty, the ratification treaty, the lisbon treaty, of which sarkozy boasts that he was one of the main architects - were actually going to open our borders to all those who wished to settle there. but i am still surprised and astonished, first of all, at the lack of legal knowledge on the part of our colleagues who have forgotten that citizens of the european union from central and eastern europe do not yet have the definitive right of establishment on our territory. they won't get it until 2013. and then, of course, we talk about an oppressed minority, but do you seriously think, ladies and gentlemen, that if the roma have not been integrated for six centuries in the countries of central and eastern europe where they reside, it is simply because the romanians, the bulgarians, the hungarians are bad, because the slovaks, the czechs, the slovenes, the serbs persecute them? your angelism is in fact another form of racism, a racism which is actually applied to the indigenous peoples, those who, like in my country, do not want, i am very sorry to say, that 12 million roma should come and settle there and the only solution, as you have indicated, is to get out of this europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, there is a lot of prejudice against the roma. a lot of things have already been said. i share the indignation of a number of my colleagues but i would just like to give you some background to set the record straight. first, no roma were involved in the events that sparked the xenophobic and security controversy this summer in france. it was just a diversion. there is no question of returning to their country people who have committed crimes or are suspected of having committed crimes. all the people who were deported have clean criminal records. it is a matter of targeting an ethnic group and making it a scapegoat. how do you do these evictions? they are systematically made from the evacuation operations of makeshift camps. police forces usually come in early in the morning and identify people. from there, the chain of departure obligations are established, all on the same pattern. so, no case by case. the camps are then razed and the evacuees are not even allowed to retrieve their personal belongings. the evidence is there. (the president cut the speaker off)
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my total condemnation of the french government's behaviour, which has used the situation of the roma as a scapegoat, as other governments in the european union have done and continue to do. forced evictions, early morning break-ins in camps, separation of families, threats, destruction of meager property, expulsions - this is how the french government has used the roma this summer to make them responsible for insecurity while trying to hide its own difficulties in dealing with the country's economic and social problems. such words and practices are abhorrent and reprehensible. but now they must serve as a lever for a determined reaction on the part of all those who believe that respect for rights is not just a declaration but an intangible reality that requires action. so if the european commission is convinced that it has a responsibility to say the law, it must state quickly and clearly whether or not the french government has violated european laws and fundamental rights. i have my own idea about that. the european commission must ensure that the roma integration plan is implemented in all its dimensions in an integrated approach covering, inter alia, education, employment, social assistance and health. to do this, it must be firm on policy coordination. the fight against discrimination is one of our common objectives and the commission must demonstrate a strong political will on this matter. i think this is a challenge worthy of the year 2010, the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, i remind everyone.
yes, it's france's turn to experience the era of expulsions. this is a case of mass expulsion on the basis of ethnicity, which is totally contrary to european law. in the era of social-sarkozism, the only question on the lips of my fellow citizens in france is "today the roma. who's next tomorrow?" if we think european, as mr barroso reminded us this morning, the time has come to show that our european thinking does not stop at the economic sphere. tomorrow europe will have to face up to its past and recognize the gypsy genocide. when i hear some of my colleagues on the far right, i get goosebumps. today, if we want to have our minorities respected, our values respected, the fundamental charter that is included in the lisbon treaty respected, you have only one thing to do: condemn france.
i think that this debate can be useful on two conditions: if it improves the living conditions of a population - the 10 million roma who are currently living in extreme poverty - and if it enables everyone to face up to their responsibilities. i believe that everyone should sweep the floor, starting with the countries of origin, where a more effective integration policy should be pursued, since roma are too often left behind and marginalised. that has to change. the host countries too, where politicians - i am thinking of italy yesterday, or of france, my country, today - have too often given the impression of pointing fingers, of stigmatising an entire community and making it the easy scapegoat for all fears and all fears. this is not acceptable. the union cannot tolerate any discriminatory policy. the european union, finally, which did not take the proper action on this issue at the time of enlargement. the billions spent have done nothing to improve the daily situation of the roma. we must make up for lost time, and put in place a comprehensive integration plan involving the commission, the member states and local authorities, which too often take the place of the state in the reception of roma. thank you.
madam vice-president of the commission, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am astonished at the hypocrisy of a number of speeches i have just heard and i would like to say that france is applying the law. we have no discriminatory policy, and we do not even recognize minorities. the republic is one and indivisible. we make individual decisions under the control of a judge and the decisions show that. i thank you, commissioner, for calling him back. but the french people have made the decision on security. france is generous with people who are in a regular situation. we are fighting people who are not in a regular situation and the french people do not accept irregular situations. so, of course, there's freedom of movement. this freedom of movement is of course subject to the condition that citizens do not disturb public order and that, beyond three months, they have sufficient resources. but freedom - that is title ii of the charter of fundamental rights - cannot be understood without security. there can be no freedom without order because freedom without order is anarchy. in these situations, all local government politicians ask for the intervention of the police. now we must draw up a grand european integration plan, as president băsescu has called for, to fight mafia organizations and human trafficking, to solve the problems of education, to improve access to health care, to ensure the political representation of the roma, and we are reaching out for a common resolution. it would be a pity if we did not have a joint resolution condemning france. we are missing a political moment and i hope that by thursday we will have the means to make this joint resolution.
in writing. the situation of the roma in europe is a problem that concerns me in particular, not as a french mep, but as a european citizen! the vast majority of roma are european citizens. as such, they fully benefit from the freedom of movement and residence granted by the treaties and directive 2004/38/ec. but with this right, as with all rights, come duties! and the law, in all its dimensions, must be respected by all! today, there are an estimated 11 million roma in europe. this is a european problem and my group is the only one that has shown - once again! - that it has really thought about this issue and contributed to this debate in a constructive way. for example, consideration should be given to the best possible use of european funds to improve the conditions for the integration of roma in their country of origin. a genuine roma strategy at european level must also be implemented, involving the roma community in its development, implementation and monitoring.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian situation in pakistan is dramatic, worse than the asian tsunami. i welcome the decision of the european commission to increase the total amount of humanitarian aid to help the flood victims to eur 70 million and i welcome the, once again, immediate reaction of mrs georgieva. one of the major problems is access to victims, because infrastructure is destroyed, victims are surrounded by water and the security situation is very unstable. it is essential that the humanitarian principles of impartiality, neutrality, independence and humanity are respected in the delivery of aid, which must be based solely on the needs of the people. while the eu's disaster response instruments have worked well, the crisis in pakistan has again demonstrated the need to increase their effectiveness in terms of speed, coordination and visibility. this disaster has once again highlighted the need to create a european rapid reaction capability. i therefore wish once again to see the creation of a european civil protection force. commissioner, you will be presenting a communication in november on strengthening the eu's disaster response capacity, which will be followed by proposals for legislative acts. so you have an opportunity here to come up with ambitious solutions and i am sure you will.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, we need long-term legislation to improve employment in europe and reduce poverty. we must tackle the problem of unemployment in a sustainable growth perspective. i would like to emphasize three points. firstly, the council proposes that guidelines for employment policies in the member states be drawn up every ten years. i agree, because we need a long-term perspective, but then we need to set real milestones every three years so that we do not lose sight of the developments in the labour market. secondly, i tabled an amendment which was not accepted, in which i proposed the creation of an employment observatory to carry out a concrete analysis of future jobs. far too many young people leave school or university without training that meets the needs of the labour market. we need to anticipate the jobs of the future. our young people must be able to plan and to specialise in training which does not lag behind their employment. finally, the fight against unemployment is not only about doing everything possible to improve the employment situation in europe, but also about fighting poverty. the integration of the most disadvantaged into the labour market is essential to combating poverty. the european social fund is the instrument that can help bring these people back into the labour market. let us begin by giving these people dignity by giving them jobs and avoid assisting them without the prospect of social integration. i insist on this point.
madam president, commissioner, as you know, this debate is an essential debate for the european parliament. it is the concrete tool at our disposal to say how to implement the 2020 strategy. in view of the vague debates we have had on this strategy, the definition of these employment guidelines is really, for us, absolutely essential; that is why we have insisted so strongly that there should be no adoption by the council before this debate and before the vote tomorrow. this is already a very important point for us. but, of course, beyond this timetable arrangement, we would also like to be heard on the merits. and from the contacts we have had with the belgian presidency, we have some hope that, in the face of what appear to be useful proposals, as an added value that could be brought by the european parliament's position, the council does not deprive itself of this added value and agrees to review the text as it has adopted it to incorporate these proposals, which are valid proposals. after discussing this with the belgian presidency, we agreed - all the groups that took part in the discussions - that the elements which were included in the body of our text should be taken up in the form of recitals, and in this respect there is a great deal of agreement between us to do so. that is why i hope that the four amendments tabled in this connection will be adopted tomorrow. the first - and this is probably the one on which i imagine there could be the greatest consensus among us - is that these employment guidelines, to be useful, must be the subject of this very fashionable term: good governance. and in this case, good governance means that national and european parliamentarians, and the social partners, must be consulted at all stages of the development and implementation of these guidelines. and then, politically, there are two amendments which are absolutely essential to me. they are about the reminder of decent work. how could the european union vote for all the conventions and not apply these notions of decent work to itself and implement these guidelines to finally tackle the situation of the most vulnerable, including the youngest, their level of education, the disadvantaged populations, to overcome poverty? these are the proposals we are making to you and we trust you to advocate these amendments if, as i hope, they are voted by a majority of this house tomorrow.
president of the council. - madam president, the ecofin council meeting which just took place in brussels enabled us to make progress on two issues by adopting both the european semester, in the context of budgetary consolidation and the new budgetary monitoring procedures, and by also confirming the agreement reached in a trilogue with the commission, the european parliament and the council, of course, on all the financial supervision texts. in addition, we have opened two debates which will be continued at the end of this month at the informal ecofin council and which we hope to make progress on during this half-year, one on the resolution funds or the bank contribution and the other on the taxation of financial transactions. a few words about each of the points. as far as the european semester is concerned, this is a first step. this will enable us to start the new budgetary procedure with the commission as from 1 january next, by asking the member states, as from spring, to submit a number of budgetary data, the parameters for drawing up the budget, the broad guidelines, without going into detail line by line, before continuing this procedure and hoping that we can add new provisions, i am thinking of provisions on sanctions. the presidency will in any case encourage the approach of implementing these sanctions, on the initiative of the commission and, if possible, with a specific role for the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs. as regards monitoring, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all the members of the european parliament who have taken part in the search for consensus on the various texts, the commission as well, michel barnier and his teams, and the successive presidencies. i am thinking of the spanish and swedish presidencies that have preceded us. we now have the texts that will enable us to set up the new supervisory and monitoring structures and the systemic risk committee again as from 1 january. this is an approach which will enable us to move forward under good conditions, with a new architecture of the financial system and its supervision. i would simply like to make it clear that this is not the end, although we are at the end of a long process, but rather the beginning of a new european organisation and the beginning, probably, of long debates which will lead us to implement a number of texts which commissioner barnier will have the opportunity to present in the coming weeks. we shall try to keep to a strict timetable in this respect. this is the case for the two items which have been the subject of formal decisions by ecofin. in addition, as i said, there were discussions on two other subjects. the first on the resolution funds or the bank contribution and the second on the taxation of financial transactions. i think that the debate in ecofin on the banking contribution and the resolution funds has given rise to a number of guidelines which will enable the commission to present more detailed and more concrete proposals. i am convinced that with the same determination as we have shown in the debate on financial supervision, we should be able to arrive in the coming months at mechanisms which will allow for real coordination in europe. some countries have already introduced levies on the banking sector but it is important that we can make progress in a coordinated way. i admit there are a number of questions that remain to be decided. we shall discuss this again at the level of the finance ministers at the informal council at the end of this month. the debate on taxation of financial transactions is much more lively. we are not as far as we can go in finding a consensus, but that is normal. it was a first substantive debate to ask the questions of the capacity to implement such a taxation, but also the capacity to do so in the european union or to discuss it with other partners. we will also be returning to this at the end of this month in preparation for the g20 meetings because, for most of the participants, it is obviously important that we can discuss this with our partners not only on the other side of the atlantic, but also in emerging countries. i would simply say, in conclusion, that there will be a lot of persuasion to be made on this subject, and then choices will have to be made. if such a taxation were to be introduced, what would be the use of the revenue? some use it for their national budgets, others to finance the measures needed to combat climate change and others - we have contributed to this in belgium in particular - to finance development. that, madam president, is what i can tell you about this council which has just been held in brussels.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after didier reynders, i too would like to say a few words about our approach to this ecofin council. i do so on behalf of my colleagues olli rehn and algirdas šemeta, who have worked with me on this. there are four points which have marked this council, as the belgian minister said. you will allow me, since parliament has taken a very large part in it, to begin with a major subject, which i regard as structural and to which i have devoted a great deal of my energy since you entrusted us with it in february. it's about oversight. because supervision is the fundamental element, the framework in which we will be able, brick by brick, week by week, product by product, market by market or actor by actor, to draw the lessons of the crisis, to put in place smart regulation and effective supervision, so that, at the end of the road and we are not there , no actor, no product, no market, no territory, escapes smart regulation and effective supervision. i would like to express my sincere thanks in this connection to your rapporteurs, mr garcía-margallo, mr skinner, mr sánchez presedo, mrs goulard, mr giegold, mr tremosa i balcells and mr balz, and to the chairman of the committee, mrs sharon bowles, who has been very determined in organising this trilogue. i would also like to say that the belgian president, didier reynders, has played a very personal and very voluntary role, building on the work done before him by the spanish and swedish presidencies, in addition to the work of his team. i would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the original reason for this commission proposal on supervision is the very clever work done by mr jacques de larosière in drawing the first great lesson from this crisis. we will thus have, on 1 january, the commission will be doing a lot of work, as is its role, to prepare the setting up of these three authorities and the systemic risk board of the european structures. i spoke of european radar screens, of control towers, which are obviously necessary because, as we know, in half the european countries you represent, half the banks are owned by other countries. so we are generally dealing with financial institutions which are transnational in nature and therefore present a systemic dimension and risks. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the presidency and to thank very sincerely parliament and your rapporteurs for the essential work they have done to make this 'first step' as mr reynders has called it, a success. now the construction work begins. you will see that, week after week - as of next week i will be introducing the regulation on derivatives, the regulation on short selling and then, a little later, on rating agencies - we will fill this framework. two points of debate which also concern the financial sector, on the idea of a contribution, a tax. one is more advanced than the other and i believe, as the belgian presidency has said, that the two subjects, which are different, should not be mixed up, even though they all concern financing by the financial sector. the first is this idea of resolution funds. it is a debate which has already begun in the council and i must say to the members that these debates in the council, as i was able to see yesterday, are very useful because, through round tables, we are beginning to see things a little clearer. i had opened this debate under the spanish presidency in madrid, at the informal council, by presenting the idea of a toolbox for crisis prevention in the banking and financial sector with two simple ideas: prevention always costs less than repair it is true for the environment, it is true for financial crises ; the second simple idea is that taxpayers should no longer be on the front line, banks should be paying for banks. and so, from these ideas, we have presented the elements of a toolbox that the resolution fund is part of. i would like to emphasize the very useful work that mrs ferreira has done on your behalf. i shall be presenting a communication in october based on the reflections of parliament, mrs ferreira and the reactions of the council of ministers. why october? because we will also have made progress in an important process, the basel process, with capital requirements in terms of both quality and quantity. you know that when we talk about the contributions of the banks or prevention in the banks, we have to put all the elements together, we have to ensure what i have called the "calibration" of these measures so that they are effective and no one escapes. it will not be business as usual but at the same time we must not penalize the economy without paying attention to the cumulative effect of all these measures. i shall therefore be presenting a communication in october on the prevention of future crises and the responsibility of banks and the resolution fund, on which ideas are being advanced, since germany has just put this idea into practice. sweden had already done that. we will try to build a coordinated system with a common core that will avoid miscoordination, even competition, and double taxation on banking institutions. a debate, as didier reynders said, has just begun. it is much more difficult to tax financial transactions at the global level. this debate was initiated at the g20. not everyone was enthusiastic. many of us think that this is a good idea, that financial transactions, in a modest but effective way, should be able to help finance a number of major global challenges, so that the world is more just and therefore more stable and more secure. the world around us will only be safer if it is more just, which is not the case today. we are all aware of the challenges, environmental, climate, food and crisis, which are hitting the poorest countries the hardest. many of us think that this is a good idea, but it is far from being a consensus idea in the council of ministers, to say the least. so we'll have to keep working on it. my colleague algirdas šemeta has made a first briefing and, on the basis of the work of the council of ministers, we will be drawing up a new communication on taxation of the financial sector in particular. this communication is scheduled for october. i will not repeat what didier reynders said about the stability and convergence programme, the efforts made by the commission, the work of the task force, and in particular the idea, which i think is useful, of a european semester, which will allow us to put into perspective the budgetary analysis of each country, while preserving its sovereignty and having a picture, a european radar screen there too, of the general economic policy orientations of the countries. the council will also work on the basis of the commission's work and reports on this subject. at lunch didier reynders started two discussions which i will describe briefly: one concerns me and concerns us, and that is the operation of the iasb, the international body which works on accounting standards. we want governance reform and more transparency. i also told the presidency that i was prepared to present a report to the informal council in september which would be of interest to parliament on transatlantic regulation. we are not alone in the g20, nor are we alone between americans and europeans, but it is extremely important that we ensure that the measures taken under president obama by the us congress are consistent with the measures taken by europe in the field of supervision and regulation. i am drawing up a sort of comparative scoreboard between what is happening in the united states at the moment and what we are doing in europe to ensure that parallelism. it is a matter of achieving the same objectives without necessarily having the same methods or measures. i think this is something that will be useful for ministers and for members of the european parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, thank you to the commission and the belgian presidency for helping us to put european financial supervision on track. in this concert of mutual thanks, i would nevertheless like to stress that last december the european parliament welcomed the fact that the member states, while claiming to want to solve the crisis with european solutions, were putting in place all the imaginable safeguards and safeguard clauses so that these european authorities could not act without intergovernmental agreements. i think we all worked well together, but let's give each other what's ours. i would like to make one particularly positive point, as rapporteur for the european committee on systemic risk. michel barnier talks a lot about radars and control towers, but there is also a pilot on the plane, and that pilot is the president of the ecb and parliament is very keen that he remains so. on the other hand, there is a small point of dissatisfaction and above all an invitation to continue the fight, which concerns the direct supervision of pan-european entities. we must continue in the sectoral texts, and the four main groups in this parliament have jointly committed to this, to give esma, eba powers over these entities, over the rating agencies. it is already in progress and we expect the commission to continue its work, but also on clearing houses and, eventually, also on crossborder groups. the fight on this issue was simple: either we have an internal market with european regulation and supervision or we are content with vague coordination, that is to say, with the kind of "squatters" between the nation states, as we say under the belgian presidency.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would of course like to join in the praise of the good result achieved in supervision. as sylvie goulard has pointed out, parliament is not to blame for this and we had, in december, a statement by the four coordinators of the main groups, which was a unique and new development, saying that more europe was needed in this supervision. your dynamism, mr minister, has made it possible to arrive at a good solution. the commission has obviously done a lot of work and i welcome the programme that commissioner barnier has announced for financial services. fortunately, this act took place, this agreement was reached, because, in the end, in financial matters, it is europe's credibility that is at stake, its credibility in the eyes of our fellow citizens who, since the crisis, have been asking us: 'what is europe doing? what practical results have you achieved?' so we tell them we're thinking, we're working, we're doing trilogues, we're having meetings, but what they want is the result. it is also a question of europe's credibility vis-à-vis our international partners, particularly the united states. i have recently had contacts with representatives of the american financial sector and, in the end, what bothers them about europe is this feeling of legal uncertainty: we are changing the regulations, introducing revision clauses, sunset clauses, we are not building something solid. i believe that legislation should be final, even if it is subject to change. but we must not give the impression that after two or three years the texts will be changed. mr president, mr minister, i would like to make a personal plea: this afternoon there will be a very important trilogue with commissioner barnier and my colleagues on the regulation of alternative funds. it is essential that we find a solution quickly. i know all about the commitment of the belgian presidency and your personal commitment. we must reach an agreement in the coming weeks so that the next time you report on the work of ecofin you can say 'agreement has been reached on the regulation of alternative funds'. we care about it, i know you do. it's up to us to take the final step to find the right solution.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleagues have said - jean-paul gauzès just now or yesterday in the debate on the state of the union - we need more europe. more europe to create growth and jobs, to regulate markets and to reduce inequalities. this is the speech of my group chairman, joseph daul. i fully support it and i believe that the member states have finally understood that we must be bold in economic and budgetary matters. bold and above all responsible: national protectionist reflexes are leading us straight into the wall. we need more financial supervision at european level and, as such, the agreement with the council on the financial supervision package, which we will vote on at the next plenary session, is excellent news. but beyond the supervision of the system, we must establish a real coordination of our budgetary and economic policies. we must move towards fiscal federalism and economic federalism. we are hemiplegic when we are united on monetary policy but autonomous on our budgetary policies. i believe that this is the reason for the new european semester, which requires the member states to submit their budgetary strategies to the council for its opinion before the summer. but, as is often the case in european affairs, practice will determine the rules far more than the texts. i hope that this coordination will not remain a mere formality but will lead to a genuine concerted strategy in the field of economic policy, industrial policy and social policy. i regret to this day that the national parliaments and the european parliament are not fully involved in this coordination process. i am therefore, mr minister, speaking on behalf of the council, addressing myself to you in particular: as budgetary authorities, parliaments must play a vital role in the emergence of a european economic policy. it is a question of its effectiveness and legitimacy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the ecofin council approved the principle of the european semester. as a federalist, i can only welcome such progress, but it is one thing to coordinate budgetary policies, but quite another to define their content, and in this respect the strengthening of the stability and growth pact is a serious mistake. the austerity measures that have been dogmatically imposed on the whole of europe are already having their first effects. spain and ireland are getting deeper into difficulties and the markit study, published at the end of august, shows that this cure is responsible for the stagnation of european growth, including soon german growth. the package of repressive measures that is on the menu for the next informal ecofin is even more serious. it is irresponsible to impose automatic financial sanctions on states which already face budgetary problems. this leads to criticism in each member state of national contributions to the union budget. the first rejection of austerity, two and a half million citizens expressed it in the streets of france yesterday. the council and the commission are playing pyromaniac games, whereas we should preserve the social buffers and bring the union the social peace necessary for recovery. do they only measure the impact of such decisions on the growing euroscepticism shared by citizens? in the name of the construction of europe and the citizens for whom it is being built, we must realize, ladies and gentlemen, that the strengthening of the stability pact is an economic aberration. it is also a serious political mistake.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have just made some reassuring remarks, but i still think that the concerns of a large number of members of parliament about acta have not been fully resolved. i had already asked for a resolution in march, which was voted by a very large majority in this house, and which made it possible to publish the text under negotiation. we intervened in the debate to ask for respect for the acquis communautaire - you mentioned this - the safety and supply of generic medicines and respect for the fundamental freedoms of our fellow citizens. we also discussed geographical indicators and that was to tell you our priorities, which i will repeat to you, so that the position you will be defending in a few weeks in japan will be nourished by the parliamentary debate we have been able to set up. yesterday, during the debate on the state of the union, many speakers rightly pointed out that we members of parliament are the spokesmen for our fellow citizens and that without this spokesman the commission risks being in a fruitless confrontation with parliament. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, first of all, to consider the members of parliament you are dealing with as partners and not just adversaries. this partnership we seek must not leave us, as your services sometimes seem to want, locked in this sacred seal of confidentiality. today, your services are answering our questions behind closed doors. we are given the latest version of the acta text, but we are forbidden to send any message when we leave these meetings or after reading the agreement, when our role is to alert, to explain, to make it understood. so this is the second request i make to you: consider the transparency of the debate as an element which enriches your thinking rather than an act of breaking trust. apart from these two main issues, and because i am beginning to be tired of this kind of exercise, i will therefore remind you of my concerns. first, there is access to medicines. that has been discussed. you tell us that its protection is one of your priorities, that you are doing everything possible to ensure that nothing in this agreement will impede their production or free movement. but now i ask you the question of patents. why would you want to include them in this deal? under the guise of improving the legitimate fight against counterfeiting, acta should not be used as a means of extending the rights of patent holders far beyond what is provided for in the trips agreement. please do not mix generic drugs with counterfeit drugs. another important point is the backups. no text is too strong to ensure a true balance between the rights of users and those of rights holders. i refer you to the various wording of the trips agreement. i welcome what you have said on the internet and i have great confidence that acta will not weaken the european position clearly expressed in the e-commerce directive. commissioner, there are certainly other points which i should like to raise this morning, but the first duty i set myself is to allow this debate to lead us to give as much information as possible about this agreement to all our fellow citizens, to tell you that the main thing for me is to protect their fundamental rights and freedoms. i therefore expect you to take into account the points raised by the members in order to defend them in the negotiations and i also ask you to honour your commitment to publish the text at the end of the negotiations, whether at the end of the round in japan or at a later stage. the public debate must take place in this parliament. i shall therefore ask for a resolution and we shall wait for you to take our views into account before any acta is signed, even if it means returning to the negotiating table.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to bring a new element into the debate on acta and, with the co-signatories of declaration 12, i have the honour to inform you that this declaration has obtained a very large majority in parliament and has exceeded the minimum number of signatories. i am glad that this statement is being sent to you before the final round of acta negotiations and i think you can regard it as a negotiating mandate from the european parliament. i would remind you of the elements of this: not only does parliament of course ask for transparency and for the texts to be submitted to it during the negotiations before they are ratified by parliament, but we also ask that intellectual property rights not be harmonised under this international treaty and that citizens' freedom, privacy and net neutrality be maintained and guaranteed.
in writing. given the diversity of national legislation and the low level of protection afforded to animals in some member states, further harmonisation is now necessary as regards the rules applicable to the use of animals for scientific purposes. as our rapporteur, mrs jeggle, has pointed out, a balanced compromise has been reached with the council. in fact, alongside the protection of animals, it is very important to allow research to continue to play a vital role in the fight against disease. i therefore voted in favour of this report and, like my colleagues from the epp, i rejected the amendments tabled by the green group.
in writing. i supported this second reading agreement because we need to respond to the reality of biomedical research and the needs of patients while improving animal welfare. fortunately, animal testing has declined considerably in recent years as european research is moving towards the goal of finding alternative solutions. unfortunately, we know that in some cases these solutions do not exist and we are forced to resort to this animal experimentation, especially on non-human primates. this is true, among others, of all neurodegenerative diseases, such as parkinson's disease and alzheimer's disease. research in europe is the only guarantee of a high level of protection for animal welfare. taking into account the pain of the animal during an experiment is the guarantee that it will produce good results. that is why we must avoid any relocation of animal testing outside europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this compromise which strikes a good balance between better protection of animals in animal experiments and the pursuit of scientific research. animal testing helps to control many serious diseases, but it must be controlled to avoid unnecessary suffering. the directive in force until now was from 1986 and therefore needed to be greatly improved. the new text now includes the requirement to obtain prior authorization for animal testing with a project and cost-benefit assessment, and sets up a strict control and verification system. today's vote is the culmination of a long process by the rapporteurs, my colleagues e. jeggle and n. parish, in the previous term. the results of the vote in the committee on agriculture already reflected the quality of the final text.
in writing. i approve the outcome of the vote on the text on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. i am not sure that the european parliament is going to be able to accept the amendments tabled by mr jeggle, but i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the text makes it possible to limit painful animal testing, while avoiding that research and innovation are relocated outside the union, with many job losses as a result. as vice-president of the intergroup on animal welfare, i am also convinced that it is better to keep animal experimentation on our own territory, where it is strictly regulated, rather than leaving it to third countries, where the health conditions and the respect for animal life are often lacking.
in writing. in april 2010, the european commission presented a proposal for guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, as part of the implementation of the eu2020 strategy. in his report, mr öry, a member of the epp, supports the commission's proposals but adds some elements which i think are necessary. the cohesion policy, which had been neglected by the commission, must therefore be fully integrated into employment policies. even if the eu's competence in employment matters remains limited, it must not be content with a passive role and make the best use of the instruments at its disposal (cohesion policy, the globalisation adjustment fund, the open method of coordination). i therefore fully support the guidelines of this report.
in writing. presented in march 2010 by the european commission, the europe 2020 strategy is intended to set the eu's course for the next decade. if we can only regret the lack of involvement of the european parliament in the elaboration of the strategy, which was the work of mr barroso alone, there is one area in which parliament has a say: the integrated guidelines for employment. the 10 targets are to create more and better jobs, to strengthen decent work and to improve education and training systems. i therefore voted, with the majority of my fellow meps, on wednesday 8 september 2010, for a report which sets out these objectives and in which we call, in particular, for better use of the european social fund, for greater attention to the working poor and the fight against social exclusion, and for access to affordable and quality public services to be guaranteed. finally, if we want this strategy to be truly inclusive, we must ensure that these guidelines are consistent with cohesion policy.
in writing. parliament delivered its opinion on the integrated guidelines for employment. the 10 countries have set themselves the objectives of creating more and better jobs, strengthening decent work and improving education and training systems. parliament has taken action to ensure that the european social fund is better used, that greater attention is paid to the working poor and to the fight against social exclusion, and that access to affordable and quality public services is guaranteed.
in writing. with the unemployment rate in europe at 9.8%, with the labour market situation continuing to deteriorate and with the full effects of the economic crisis still to be felt, the european union needs to implement an ambitious european employment strategy. the european parliament has therefore adopted, as part of the eu 2020 strategy, employment guidelines for the member states: 10 guidelines on job creation, job quality, youth employment, employment of people belonging to vulnerable groups, the fight against social exclusion and the importance of optimum use of the european social fund. these are very ambitious objectives, but above all they are guidelines which must and will have to be implemented by the member states, and a strong signal from the european parliament to the member states at a time when employment is the most important concern and concern of our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the öry report on the guidelines for employment in the member states in the context of the eu 2020 strategy. the text strongly emphasises the priority of the fight against unemployment in a context of economic and social crisis. the text focuses on several elements: the employment rate must be raised to 75% across the union within 10 years, and a special effort must be made on the most vulnerable populations on the labour market: young people, the elderly, unskilled women, disabled people and people with immigrant backgrounds, who are most likely to be victims of discrimination in hiring and employment. the text also recalls the basic notions of decent work and the fight against poverty.
in writing. i voted for this report. as a representative of an overseas region, i can only be aware of the policies promoting employment and the fight against poverty, since the employment rates in the french overseas departments are the lowest in france (43.9% in réunion, for example, compared with 62.3% in all the eu member states). raising this figure from 10% in 2014 to 75% in 2020 is a goal i have always fought for. this is all the more so since it is aimed primarily at young people in difficulty, women and the disabled. the proposal also addresses poverty and aims to reduce by 25% the number of citizens living below the poverty line. these objectives should mobilise all the social and political forces, both french and european, so that the state can put in place the necessary means to achieve them within the time limits.
in writing. while the economic crisis has not yet had its full effect on unemployment rates, it is imperative that an ambitious european employment strategy is implemented. i agree with the council's objective of 75% participation of the european population in the labour market by 2020, but we need to go further. for example, the employment rate of vulnerable groups such as young people aged 15 to 25, older workers, unskilled women in the labour force and disabled people should be raised. or further reduce the school drop-out rate below the 10% mark. i also believe that the difficulty of integrating the longterm unemployed into the labour market must be the subject of specific policies, and i ask the council to give itself the means of reducing it by at least 10% within 10 years. to achieve this, as my colleague csaba őry proposes in his report, at least 25% of the longterm unemployed must be able to take part in an activation measure which may take the form of further training, training and/or retraining.
in writing. sakineh mohammadi ashtiani, a 43-year-old iranian woman, is facing the death penalty by stoning for adultery and complicity in the murder of her former husband. as a member of the european parliament and president of the association 'women at the centre', i was outraged by this sentence, which was considered by all to be arbitrary. this decision is contrary to the most basic of fundamental rights: no respect for the right of defence, no respect for human dignity... even today, in some countries, two forms of justice coexist: women are condemned and tortured, despite their basic rights, by men with all the power. i am glad that the european parliament's resolution calling on the iranian regime to reverse this condemnation was adopted almost unanimously, which gives it a very strong weight. we now expect concrete progress on human rights in iran.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on human rights in iran, in particular the cases of sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani and zahra bahrami, because the situations of these two women are dramatic. sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani, who is condemned to death by the iranian authorities, is threatened every day with the most barbaric ritual of stoning. what country in the 21st century can write in full letters in its penal code the size of the stones that must be thrown at the condemned to kill him? iran is that country. only international and political mobilization has been able to prevent the stoning in recent years and will bring down the iranian regime. we have a duty as politicians, as citizens, as human beings, to prevent what would be nothing less than murder.
mr president, i shall make three brief comments on this subject. firstly, since we have been discussing france's position on the sale of the mistral, let me remind you that no firm agreement has been reached, that the mistral is a vessel, a ship that would be sold without armaments - and this is indeed one of the fundamental issues at the heart of the discussions with russia - and that russia is not negotiating only with france for the acquisition of this type of equipment. so let me put this in perspective. i understand that there is a lot of emotion in some countries, but emotion is one thing, facts are another. secondly, as you mentioned, mr minister, we have a code of conduct in the european union on arms exports, which became a common position under the french presidency in 2008, a code of conduct which is one of the most demanding in the world. we are very virtuous in this respect and we have, in addition to this code of conduct, as one of our colleagues has reminded us, a group which meets regularly within the cfsp to discuss not only the application of this code but also the national arms export policies of the member states. there are therefore forums in which the question of the mistral can be addressed in a very adequate way. finally, let me say that if we are talking about european solidarity in arms exports and the need for a common strategy and a common defence policy, we must also talk about the whole cycle of trade in arms and defence equipment. this also concerned imports and, of course, the defence industry. from this point of view, i believe that many countries also have progress to make in order to maintain in europe technologies, jobs, know-how and a real strategic capacity in our military deployments.
author. - mr president, at the beginning of this year the israeli government passed a bill which directly calls into question the funding granted by the european union to ngos in israel. i too have co-signed this question and i am glad that it allows us to appreciate the excellent work of israeli ngos, who are fighting every day for peace, democracy and, more broadly, for human rights on the territory of the state of israel. these ngos are far too often the forgotten big players in the israeli-palestinian conflict, even though they do remarkable work, as i said before, and they suffer from multiple oppressions. the israeli government, under pressure - and especially under our pressure - has backed down slightly but without changing the direction of its policy. this is a legal arsenal that the israeli authorities are trying to put in place to prevent any criticism of their policies, including from abroad. i also object to the proposals to prohibit boycott activities and, even worse, to the one that calls into question the principle of universal jurisdiction, enshrined in many international treaties to which israel is a signatory. but we know, unfortunately, that with the israeli government, international law is sometimes a variable geometry. we know that these proposals are the israeli government's reaction to the goldstone report. the union has established a privileged partnership with israel, which nothing seems to be able to call into question. but we feel that there are limits to what can be done on these benches. we must persuade the israeli government to stop harassing ngos that criticize its policies, and to demand explicitly that it withdraw these proposals, which are unworthy of a state that prides itself on democracy. can you assure us that in any case - including, i hope not, if this legislation is passed - the european union will continue to fund these ngos in israel unconditionally? can you tell us how the commission intends to persuade the government to withdraw these acts and to ensure respect for freedom of association, a fundamental pillar of democracy? can you assure us that human rights liaison officers will be appointed in israel as part of the establishment of the european external action service so that ngos have contacts there?
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are some who say that today's debate is no longer relevant. however, while european funding of israeli ngos was attacked by pressure groups as early as 2005, the working conditions of civil society in israel continue to deteriorate. since the goldstone report, many of the leaders of the association have been slandered, intimidated, arrested. fourteen bills are currently under discussion. they share the aim of restricting independence and freedom of association. i would remind you that israeli human rights defenders are no longer allowed to travel to the occupied territories without a permit from the army. the israeli democrats and pacifists, who have benefited from the european instrument for democracy and human rights, are concerned because this bill, even if amended, expressly refers to the financing of international bodies, while it does not concern private funds. we will no longer accept the silence of those who have the courage to denounce the daily humiliation of palestinians, the expulsion of families, the demolition of houses, the confiscation of land and the deprivation of water.
mr president, i would simply like to ask mrs ries, since she thinks that there has been no effect on the knesset and the israeli authorities, how she explains the israeli embassy statement we have just been talking about and how she explains some of the emails we have received in the last few days.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to begin by paying tribute to the coalition of environmentalists we received a few months ago in brussels, an association of israelis, jordanians and palestinians who have therefore made excellent reports on the situation in the region, on the state of the jordan river and the risk of its disappearance. the european union, which allocates considerable funds to development projects in the middle east, must become more involved in the development and implementation of a river rescue plan that would involve all the actors in the region. the countries bordering the river, such as syria, jordan and israel, divert most of the river while the palestinians - as we just mentioned - only benefit from about 5 percent of the resource. in the jordan valley, israeli settlers consume six times more water than palestinians, especially for intensive and polluting agriculture for exporting agricultural products to europe. the expansion of these colonies with their lush greenery must stop, as must the destruction, as happened a few weeks ago this summer, of bedouin camps and their water tanks. they're freaks! the conservation and equitable sharing of water in the region must be our priority.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the gradual drying up of the jordan is a direct consequence of the tragedy in palestine. water is a highly political issue. we never forgot. the world bank reports that for the past two years, the 1.5 million inhabitants of the gaza strip have been deprived of chlorine, which is essential for disinfecting water. 50% of households had no access to water before the january 2009 bombings, imagine now. currently, according to doctors without borders, following the israeli army attacks on the facilities, 90 percent of the water supplied to the residents is unfit for consumption. every day, 80 million litres of untreatable wastewater is dumped into our mediterranean as a result of the destruction inflicted on gaza's infrastructure. mrs. ashton has been to gaza several times, yes. but where is the political courage to apply to israel the demands we have in europe? should clean water, like land, be monopolized by israeli settlements alone? the european union must therefore suspend the association agreement with the current israeli government, which is deaf to all our demands, as long as the illegal occupation and settlement continue. without justice, there will be no peace.
mr president, unfortunately france is one of the ten member states which have imposed restrictions on the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers. if my information is correct, it was france which asked that the measures implemented at the time of the arrival of the first eight eastern european countries be extended to romania and bulgaria. it must be said that the french government of that time was not very different from the one that is now in power and was particularly suspicious of the nationals of these two states. at the time, he provided a legal arsenal to push back the nationals of these two countries, because, according to the french authorities, behind the romanians and the bulgarians, there are the roma. as you said, mr commissioner, freedom of movement is a fundamental principle of the union. we often talk in this house about our common values, our commitment to human rights. so, commissioner, why are men, and women of course, treated less well than capital and commodities? you tell us that the mobility of workers has positive effects on the economy and that this remains true even in this economic era. so why, commissioner, is the commission not putting the same effort into convincing the states that these restrictions must be lifted as it does in other economic areas? and finally, commissioner, you say to us: 'it is not the states that discriminate against these workers'. as a frenchwoman, i can't really follow you in that field.
mr president, the discussion we have had this evening shows how sensitive this subject is. we have talked about it a short while ago, we are talking about it again tonight, and we will talk about it again when you, commissioner, present your communication on this subject. but when we are dealing with such a sensitive subject, i think we should take a very rigorous approach to this issue, which concerns products from cloned animals in the food chain. i hear a lot about health risks. i would simply remind you that today we are basing ourselves on the position of the european food safety authority, which states that there is no indication at present that products from cloned animals or their offspring would pose any new or additional health or environmental risks compared to conventionally bred animals. this calls for caution. we should not take a systematic position on one side or the other until we have all the scientific facts. we must beware of taking a position which would be a retreat or, worse, a definitive position on a question which is so complex - as we see in our discussions - and which deserves to be examined in depth, particularly as regards the rules of international trade. because in reality, commissioner, you were right to tell us that in europe the risk is limited. we have conventional agricultural production, livestock production, which is certainly sufficient. but what happens when farmers import seeds that can come from the united states and be from cloned animals? we need all the guarantees to be in line with the world trade organisation and to avoid creating conditions of unfair competition. in fact, our farmers are waiting for these answers and it is they who are in trouble today. i agree with my colleagues that consumers are certainly not going to want to eat meat from these animals. but i have no doubt that commissioner dalli is willing to shed light on this matter and to provide answers to the many questions that remain unanswered today. i have every confidence in what commissioner dalli will tell us in advance and i am waiting for his report. the european consumer needs to know what he is eating and traceability is an imperative. but for that we need a rigorous scientific analysis that allows us to act with full knowledge of the facts, in order to provide a suitable answer to the question of the importation of food from cloned animals and their offspring into the food chain. that is why i am awaiting commissioner dalli's communication, which is due to be published in november, before i can give my opinion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in our modern societies, efficient communication services are essential to the lives of our businesses and to the lives of all european citizens. the liberalisation of the postal market is therefore a real challenge for this sector of activity, even though technological developments and the economic crisis have weakened the traditional carriers of postal items. like many of my colleagues, i am very much attached to economic and social cohesion, to territorial cohesion, in which these postal services ultimately play a part. as vice-president of the intergroup on public services, i am aware of the fears about the future of services of general economic interest: yesterday, in fact, about 100 postmen demonstrated in strasbourg. it is essential to me that this liberalization of the postal market does not come at the expense of working conditions and the quality of service. the 2008 directive aims to ensure a quality service at competitive prices and to create jobs. this requires strict application of the law, particularly as regards universal service obligations. in addition, postal service providers must evolve by diversifying their activities and, at the same time, their sources of revenue. we are counting on the european commission, commissioner, to be vigilant and to monitor developments in this economic sector closely. you have been able to carry out a major structural reform in the area of monetary policy coordination and financial supervision. i am sure that you will be able to associate each of us to move forward on the path of this important reform.
mr president, i listened carefully to what mr takkula said, but very substantial appropriations, several tens of billions of euros, have been opened up, of which only 9 million have been spent so far. i believe that mr sarkozy and mr hortefeux, the french minister of the interior, who were members of this parliament, are reaping what they have sown with this resolution. they were the supporters of the opening of the borders, they concluded these treaties, they were even sometimes the authors or promoters and they must realize today that the fragile barriers that were put up, that the temporary solutions that only gave the roma the possibility to come and settle in france from 2013, well all this has been blown up. in conclusion, what i find most unpleasant about the attitude of our colleagues is that, under the pretext of fighting discrimination, there is in fact discrimination, stigmatisation - to use their expression - of the indigenous majority population. it is very good to defend minorities, but do you not think that sometimes there are problems in the behaviour of minorities that arise, which can be cultural, behavioural or other problems, which precisely prevent their integration. it would be a service to these minorities if we also put these questions on the table in an honest spirit. once is not customary!
in writing. how can we not vote in favour of a report with such a title? how can we fail to stress the need for legislation that is simple, transparent and understandable to european citizens? more specifically, i of course fully support this own-initiative report by parliament, firstly because better lawmaking must be our constant concern and secondly because it focuses on some key issues. this is particularly the case with the impact assessments of the european commission, whose independence and reliability must be guaranteed.
in writing. i recognise the importance of clear legislation, reduced administrative burden for businesses, quality impact studies, their consideration (which does not always seem to be the case, far from it) and above all strict respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality to which any legislative act emanating from brussels must be subject. i think it is regrettable that the report, which repeatedly points to alleged 'over-regulation' by the member states, does not mention a very interesting point in the explanatory statement. of the thousands of legislative acts in force, 72 alone impose 486 notification obligations and more than 10 000 implementing acts in the member states. it seems to me that this information shows that the roots of the evil lie in the commission's over-regulation. more fundamentally, i question the non-formal respect of the principle of subsidiarity, since the treaties provide for areas of exclusive competence of the european union which cannot be called into question in any way, and in all other areas it seems that some national parliaments are not yet able to exercise their rights in full.
in writing. the only merit of this text is that it calls for an extension of the time limit for consulting the social partners on the commission's legislative proposals. the rest is left in the dust: the work of the group chaired by edmund stoiber, a club of entrepreneurs advocating deregulation under the pretext of reducing administrative burdens, is put to good use; the proposal to restrict the right of citizens' initiative, a poor instrument left to sovereign peoples by the lisbon treaty; the reassurance of the eight-week deadline for receiving the opinion of national parliaments on the commission's proposals. and while the text stresses the need for comprehensible european legislation, it is not at all concerned that most of the work of the commission and working groups is available only in english. what can we expect from more than one assembly, the majority of which does not claim the right to be a real parliament?
in writing. regarding the debate on the roma, the message i wish to convey is clear: we must stop the unnecessary french-french polemics and instead speak in european terms about a european issue that requires a european response. the current debate shows how difficult it is still for us to approach european issues as europeans and not as nationals of a particular member state. the european construction is first of all the sharing of certain values, from which certain freedoms, including freedom of movement, and certain duties, including that of respecting the conditions applicable to the exercise of the right of residence, flow. today we must respond to the plight of a population that is struggling to integrate. a situation exploited by certain mafia networks, which leaves begging, stealing and prostitution as their only means of subsistence. this is the main question to be settled today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the epp resolution on the situation of roma in europe. i consider that freedom of movement is a fundamental right of european citizens in accordance with directive 38/2004. the directive also lays down conditions for this freedom, which apply throughout the european union: when a person stays for more than three months in a member state, he must be able to prove that he has a job, sufficient resources to support himself or to study. it is therefore important to consider the social and economic integration of the roma as a european problem and to find a community solution to it. i therefore invite the member states and the european commission to address this question in order to provide a european political response.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this joint resolution on the situation of roma in europe. faced with the inertia of the european commission and the silence of its president, josé manuel barroso, the european parliament has risen up against the policy pursued by the french president's government against the roma community. i would remind you that the policy of nicolas sarkozy is contrary to the principle of free movement of persons guaranteed by the european union. romania is a member state and the european union prohibits any discrimination between its citizens on grounds of ethnic origin or nationality. in addition, the existence of the charter of fundamental rights has been legally binding since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in december 2009. the resolution calls for a european policy to respond to their situation. this resolution was necessary because the actions of sarkozy and berlusconi in italy are representative of the european right. they want to make europe for banks and multinational companies. they agree to free movement of capital, but as soon as it comes to the poor and the oppressed, they close the borders and deport.
in writing. the resolution had a dual objective: firstly, to draw attention to the plight of the roma, who are discriminated against in all areas of social and economic life throughout europe, and secondly, to denounce the growing stigmatisation of this population in several host countries, which, on legal grounds that are not well founded under european law, deny them the right to free movement within the eu. the time has come for everyone to take responsibility, both by refraining from any demagogic and discriminatory rhetoric and by conducting effective and voluntary policies to facilitate the integration of roma. this concerns first of all the member states of origin, which must make better use of the funds made available by the european union, but also the host or transit countries. the resolution therefore calls for a comprehensive eu-wide roma integration plan to address this common problem.
in writing. the resolution on the situation of the roma is a severe slap in the face to nicolas sarkozy and a scathing reminder to the european parliament. the president's stigmatisation of the roma in a speech on insecurity, the statements of his minister of the interior against romanians, the spectacular expulsion of several hundred of them in violation of the law, are an insult not only to the values of the republic but also to the fundamental values of the union. the roma have been systematically marginalized, discriminated against, and scapegoated throughout history. they are now european citizens, whether they are french, romanian or bulgarian. the indignity of the treatment they have suffered cannot be tolerated in a community founded on the principles of law, liberty, equality and non-discrimination, enshrined at the heart of the eu treaty and its charter of fundamental rights. the resolution is therefore a firm and unambiguous condemnation of the actions of the french government and the discriminatory rhetoric that accompanied them. it condemns illegal evictions. it requires european governments and the commission to coordinate their action for roma integration using the funds voted by parliament.
in writing. personally shocked by the expulsion measures against the roma taken by france (but also taken by other states before) i immediately co-signed the parliament's resolution and i welcome its adoption. what is happening in france is unacceptable. france is pursuing a discriminatory policy, which is contrary to the values and fundamental principles on which the european union is founded. firstly, the principles of european citizenship and free movement in the european union: roma are european citizens in their own right! secondly, the principle of non-discrimination and respect for minorities: under no circumstances can such measures be taken on the sole ground of belonging to a minority. today it is the roma, tomorrow it will be the arabs, the day after tomorrow the jews, and why not the women and then the poor? all these principles are the foundation of our union and are binding on all, and in particular on each of the member states. it is also high time to have a european strategy for roma inclusion: the european union needs stronger political will: social inclusion, housing, education, the fight against discrimination, the european union must act!
in writing. i voted for the resolution on the situation of the roma in europe because it expressly condemns the measures taken by the french authorities. the resolution recalls the right of all european citizens to move and reside freely throughout the european union, as well as the fundamental principle of equality of citizens and non-discrimination. nicolas sarkozy and the government were wrong to think that they could flout the values of the union, european law and the charter of fundamental rights with impunity: the european parliament has firmly called them to order, which would also apply to any member state tempted by such practices. it also calls on the european commission to stop procrastinating and to put in place a clear and determined strategy for the inclusion of the roma communities in all areas: access to housing, employment, education and health, in order to put an end to the intolerable exclusion they face.
in writing. i supported this joint resolution because i am convinced of the urgency of condemning the policy of the french government, which has deliberately stigmatised an ethnic group by linking it directly to crime, with the sole aim of drowning its domestic political difficulties. i believe that the exploitation of the roma issue is unacceptable and that the european parliament should have reacted. progressives, including the social democrats, have therefore called for an end to this discriminatory rhetoric and the mass expulsions, while the european right has largely covered the french government in its rightward drift. there is an urgent need for a comprehensive strategy to deal with this issue which affects 10 to 12 million eu citizens. the resolution deplores the lack of reaction from the commission, which is supposed to be the guardian of the treaties and should have condemned the actions of the french state. the mass expulsions are in breach of the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. it is essential to bring some order to this debate, which is so scandalously confused. some of the remarks made in this parliament and contained in this resolution are inadmissible. this forum must cease to be a place for the political instrumentalisation of the national policies of the member states. france has strictly applied community law and the european commission has confirmed this. i also call on the commission to take up this matter as soon as possible and to propose concrete measures to promote the integration of the roma into the european union. the time for declarations of good intentions is over, we must now implement a genuine european strategy for the integration of the roma in europe. what about the 20 billion voted by parliamentarians and allocated by the member states under the cohesion policy? this money does not benefit the recipients, and we must put an end to this situation and increase control over the proper management of european funds.
in writing. the discriminatory and brutal policy which roma are subject to in france must be a strong challenge to the european union. freedom of movement is not the prerogative of capital. the eurocrats may not like it, but it is a right common to all european citizens! it is the duty of all europeans to defend the rights of roma citizens who are being scapegoated by the present french government. the eu must condemn xenophobic government policies in an exemplary manner. failure to do so is to encourage the over-bid of governments that are already gravely at fault.
in writing. i deeply regret that the european parliament has adopted the resolution tabled by the socialists, liberals, greens and communists on the situation of the roma in europe. it seems unacceptable to me to point the finger at france, which is not the only member state to send roma back to their country. the establishment of certain camps in roms is clearly a violation of public order, sometimes even a violation of private property rights, and the burden this places on our social protection system entitles the french government to take such measures in accordance with the provisions of the european treaties. the renewals in romania and bulgaria were carried out in accordance with french and european legislation and in strict respect of human rights. i welcome the decision of the european people's party to set up a working group on the integration of the roma in order to find a european solution to the problem of nomadism. in this case, we need to have a constructive approach.
in writing. although some countries such as italy and germany are likely to be more affected than others, all eu member states are on the verge of facing an ageing population. awareness of this challenge is essential. but too often we act in the short term and forget to anticipate the transformation of our society. this resolution is excellent because it gives a quick and fairly comprehensive overview of the adaptations to be expected (infrastructure, health system, interpersonal relations, etc.). it is essential that we continue to focus on this issue. we must prepare today for the difficulties that may arise tomorrow.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, reading the resolution of the committee on social affairs, which we voted for, i was reminded of the painful and shameful episode of the 2003 heat wave, which saw more than 15 000 elderly people die in france. the lack of staff in the nursing homes and the unhealthy development of our societies, especially in my country, which has left many of our old people in loneliness and destitution, are the causes of this tragedy. but i am not forgetting the enormous responsibility of the european union for the destruction of our social protection systems, by the economic and trade policies it is pursuing, by the budgetary malthusianism it wants to impose, by the purely accounting view it has, and which it shares with the governments, of this social protection. i hold it, along with the governments that support it, jointly responsible for the weakness of wages, purchasing power and pensions. and i am not forgetting the culture of death that many of the texts discussed in this chamber convey. so, frankly, it does not seem to me to be relevant in any way to give the europe of brussels any power in policies concerning the elderly, not even statistical power.
in writing. access to safe drinking water is a fundamental human right. the un approved last july the resolution of the cochabamba peoples' summit calling for its recognition. but the jordan river was devastated and the palestinian people deprived of access to clean water by the diversion of almost all of the jordan river by israel, jordan and syria. the european union must support the interstate cooperation commitments to enable the river to be regenerated and to share water resources in the region more effectively. the focus on the jordan river alone when so many others are being destroyed is shocking. that is what this resolution is calling for. i vote in favour, hoping that similar concern will be shown for other rivers in the world.
author. - madam president, many of us in this house regret the decision of kenya, the african union and the arab league to refuse to implement the international arrest warrant for crimes against humanity against omar al-bashir. the sudanese president thus enjoys total impunity in almost all african and arab countries. we are also a number, perhaps a little less, who want international justice to be the same for all and for all everywhere in the world. we know how difficult it has been to implement the international criminal court. we also know that there is still a long way to go before this jurisdiction can act anywhere in the world. we would, however, be more credible if all our states, and france in particular, did not hesitate so much before adapting their law to that of international justice. we would have more credibility if large states like the united states were not outside the scope of this international justice. i would venture to say that the european states have a heavy responsibility towards africa and that we must not give them the impression of double standards, because it is clear that international justice seems to apply mainly to african states, unless the governments of certain european states have powerful interests in them. so, yes, we here in this house regret that the decision of the international criminal court is not being applied to omar al-bashir, who is responsible for so many crimes. but we want equal justice for all, including in the european union. only if we set an example will the european union be a true area of freedom and justice and will we be able to move step by step towards the universality of law, democracy and human rights. that is why i am also pleased that this morning a large majority of the european parliament condemned all discrimination against the roma and in particular the xenophobic remarks of the president of the french republic, who still dares to invoke the declaration of human rights. we have to act, commissioner, if we want our words to be believed all over the world.
mr president, i would like to make a statement under rule 172 on the minutes of the sitting of 9 september, in point 5.2, and on the same occasion - but i will group my speech under rule 145 by personal fact. mr president, a very important resolution was voted condemning the french government for its policy of evicting illegal nomads from their camps. this vote, oddly enough, was not subjected, despite its importance, by the groups which had the opportunity to do so, to the obligation of roll call. it so happens that while my political friends and i are clearly in the minority who voted against this resolution condemning the french government - we were in the minority of the 245 members who voted against it - some of our colleagues, notably mr jean-pierre audy and mrs véronique mathieu, have claimed that we voted against the resolution condemning the french government. what could only have been a mistake became a genuine state lie when it was taken up by the secretary of state for european affairs, mr pierre lellouche, and by the president of the ump group in the french national assembly, mr jean-françois copé. however, my intervention in the debate, my explanation of vote, my attempt to oppose mr swoboda's socialist amendment, was perfectly clear. why wasn't there a roll call? contrary to all custom, this is obviously done by the epp group to conceal - i have almost finished, mr president - defections in its own ranks and to discredit an opponent whose votes it covets. it's a miserable political maneuver.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, we cannot accept a further request to postpone the vote on this report. in substance, it is wrong to say that there is no consensus, since this report is the result of many compromises which have been debated and discussed for months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this time there is no reason to postpone the vote on this report except to allow certain parties, certain political groups, to reach a consensus, but that is not in the general interest. it is in the general interest that a decision be taken on this own-initiative report, which will never be in contradiction with future legislation, since it only calls for the application of existing legislation and not for its repudiation.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that my colleague mr schulz has said exactly what needed to be said, namely that you do not have a majority. in fact, the liberal group will vote against your report. i do not see the point in demonstrating today that neither of the reports has a majority. there is a need for discussion in almost all groups. i know that you are unanimous - i doubt it - but let us assume that you are unanimous - but in the other groups it is still being discussed and there is no clear majority on either side. so i think that for once mr schulz is being extremely reasonable in asking for the initiative to be postponed.
mr president, i did not understand the vote. did we vote for the agenda decided at the conference of presidents or against it? against it? so thursday is no session? there's no vote on this? ah, so you want to sign, you want to be paid without a vote? i'll take that.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, european transport policy is not only about economic objectives, but also and above all about ensuring the highest standards of passenger safety. this is a goal to which we have moved closer in recent years and we still need to continue our efforts to ensure an optimal level of aviation safety. it is in this context that we are discussing today the draft regulation on the investigation and prevention of accidents in civil aviation. after several weeks of difficult negotiations, we managed before the summer to reach an agreement with the council at first reading, guaranteeing concrete progress in the field of investigation, accident prevention and care for the families of victims. if the text is confirmed by our votes tomorrow, it means that the measures provided for in the text can come into force by the end of 2010. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended) what measures are envisaged in this report? firstly, this regulation strengthens the independence of the safety investigation and the investigators. they will be guaranteed access to evidence and will be given the means to determine the causes of an accident. secondly, this text clarifies the role of the easa in the event of an air accident. it is clearly established that the agency, having a role as certifying authority, ...{another fuss in the chamber} well, i have the impression that nobody is interested. we can stop if you want, i can't even hear myself talk. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) it is clear that the agency, as a certifying authority, cannot under any circumstances investigate accidents itself because it cannot be both judge and party. however, it must be able to access the information necessary for the certification tasks and also to provide its expertise to the safety investigation. therefore, the regulation provides that in accordance with annex xiii to the chicago convention, easa will participate in the investigations as an advisor. the third step in the regulation is the creation of a network of safety investigation authorities, which formalises and strengthens the existing cooperation between member states. while having a flexible structure without legal personality, this network will improve the quality of safety investigations through, inter alia, increased cooperation between member states, sharing of good practices and improving the training of investigators. in addition, this regulation also deals with the relationship between judicial investigation and technical security investigation and, on this point too, the regulation makes concrete progress, despite the diversity of the judicial systems of the member states, first by guaranteeing immediate and unlimited access to evidence for security investigators, and secondly by establishing prior agreements between judicial authorities and investigation offices. finally, and this seems to me to be the most important, the protection of the victims and their families. the text stipulates that in the event of an accident, the list of passengers on board the aircraft must be available within two hours at the latest, which will reduce the painful wait of the families. the regulation also provides for a series of measures for the families of victims. this is the possibility, at the time of booking, to indicate a contact person to be notified in the event of an accident; the obligation to inform the families of the progress of the investigation before it is made public; confidentiality of the presence on board of a person if requested by his family; the appointment of a contact person to liaise with the families of the victims throughout the investigation; the obligation for member states to have an emergency plan in case of an accident; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. finally, the obligation for all airlines serving the european union to have a minimum insurance policy to compensate the families of victims was recalled. the last important point of the regulation is the issue of occurrence reports, and this is a major advance in accident prevention, since the text provides that easa and the competent authorities of the member states have access to the database of aviation incidents. this database will be analysed so that preventive measures can be taken and accidents can be avoided. these are the main lines of the compromise. i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs very warmly, with whom we have had an excellent cooperation and who have enabled us to achieve this result.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, air transport is the safest mode of transport, as it is the one that has achieved the most spectacular results in reducing co2 emissions. we must therefore do everything to ensure that it remains so. the networking of the member states' accident and investigation offices is a good idea, provided that each of them remains under the control of the public authorities in order to avoid being subjected to the destructive notion of immediate and maximum profitability. the relocation of maintenance work outside the union, the counterfeiting of spare parts, the hiring of low-cost crews and, in some cases, the privatisation of air traffic control pose serious threats to safety. the union must intervene and assume its responsibilities in this area. it cannot simply publish blacklists and organise crash investigations. it must strike at the shareholders of airlines who fail to create the optimal safety conditions where it hurts them. it is true that some accidents are caused by human error, but these errors always reveal the shortcomings of certain airlines in terms of organization and working conditions, ergonomics, training and qualifications.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, thank you for all your contributions to this text and i would also like to say a big thank you to the commission, which has been a real facilitator in this agreement. i would like to reassure mr zemke that there will be only one amendment tomorrow. it is simply a clerical error, due to the fact that the council had forgotten a paragraph in the text. so we looked for the best way to restore it and it was through an amendment, but there will be only one. mr higgins - perhaps he did not hear me, but there was such a mess at the beginning that it is excusable, and mrs malmström has repeated it - it is clearly established that the agency, as a certifying body, cannot investigate accidents in any way, since it cannot be both judge and party, but it must be able to have access to the information necessary for the certification tasks and to make the safety investigation benefit from its expertise. mr mato adrover, i regret - as i understood it - that your delegation has abstained on this text, because it greatly improves what you rightly denounce, namely the lack of information, the uncertainty of the families. and as for having to give in on first reading, the fictitious rapporteurs will be able to tell you the same thing as i do: i want to tell you that parliament has not given in on anything at all, and parliament's views have prevailed on all the subjects in the text. i am very pleased that this text, which concerns - as mr kühn said - human lives, is reaching consensus among the political groups, and i hope that this will result in a large vote in favour of this report tomorrow. we will thus be able to confirm the european parliament's leading role in protecting its citizens, and thus have a europe that protects.
author. - madam president, i think it is very imprudent of our rapporteur to ask us, your colleagues, to ratify, to give our approval to an agreement which is really extremely problematic. first of all, this is pakistan. it's not just any country. pakistan is already the country that hosts the largest number of refugees in the world. and what are we going to ask him, mainly? of course, to take back the pakistanis, but also the afghans, who are here in europe and who are fleeing a war that we are fighting in afghanistan. i think we're starting to see something that looks like indecency. it is a fact that pakistan has not ratified the geneva convention. and it is a fact that the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe asks us to ratify readmission agreements only with countries which offer a certain number of guarantees in terms of the right to asylum and international protection, which is not the case in pakistan. and then there are a lot of questions. if i have to say yes tomorrow, i don't even know what to say. if you look at these different articles, the impact of this article could be twenty, maybe a hundred to twenty thousand, maybe more. why would you do that? because no one says what answers will be given to everything that will be decided in the readmission committee. who is responsible for proving that the person arrived after the agreement was ratified? who will be responsible for proving that this person came directly from pakistan to the european union? what will happen after the 30 day deadline if pakistan does not respond and does not issue travel documents? will we accept this bizarre instrument of a european passport, as some members of the committee suggest? i have no answer, and neither do you, mrs malmström, and i know that you will not be able to give me an answer. i've asked the pakistani ambassador, he has no answer. all of this is in the theodule re-admission committee. i cannot say that i agree with this agreement, since we are unable to say what the real impact will be. it all depends on the answers to these questions. i think tomorrow we'll have to say no.
author. - madam president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to make it clear, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats, that we are of course in favour of readmission agreements as important instruments in the fight against illegal immigration, and that they appear to be much more effective than a multiplicity of bilateral agreements. i would like to emphasize three points. in this new legal framework of ours, the european parliament should be systematically and regularly informed of the negotiations and implementation of these agreements, since we are co-decision-makers. secondly, to date 11 agreements have been concluded and we are engaged in negotiating seven more. however, there has never been an evaluation of the agreements and it would be essential to evaluate the previous agreements before concluding new ones. finally, thirdly, in terms of human rights, what guarantee can the commission offer in the event that third countries are not signatories to the geneva convention, as my colleagues have just brilliantly pointed out? i repeat, although i personally and my group are in favour of a readmission agreement with pakistan, there are still a large number of areas of concern which have not been eliminated, even though commissioner malmström - whom i thank - gave guarantees in her statement in terms of monitoring, in terms of firm negotiations with pakistan to sign the fundamental international instruments which are not signed, and also gave a guarantee that non-governmental organisations of a humanitarian nature could participate in the monitoring committee on the ground. nevertheless, we should make pakistan's signature of the geneva convention a precondition for this agreement, because we must be very careful never to lose sight of the necessary balance to be struck between the elements of security for all of us and respect for and protection of human rights, no matter where in the world that is. this is the basis of our values as the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the catastrophic humanitarian situation in pakistan has prompted us to postpone the vote on the readmission agreement between the eu and pakistan for a fortnight, and i must admit that this is a small consolation. today, our choice is decisive. how can we approve this agreement when so many questions remain unanswered and so many concerns remain? it is not necessary to go into detail here on pakistan's dismal record in respecting human rights, but let us say again, as has already been said in this house, that pakistan is not a signatory to the geneva convention on refugees or the convention on stateless persons. this situation is all the more worrying since the agreement clearly targets the afghans first and foremost, and the statements of the european commission, which merely calls on pakistan to accede to the geneva convention, do not change the situation. it is therefore necessary to state a clear and prior position: the signature of the geneva convention and other texts relating to the protection of fundamental rights is a sine qua non for any negotiation. in addition, there is a chronic lack of precision in the implementation of the agreement we are discussing today, with a scope, outlines, objectives and technical details that i would describe as nebulous, both in the readmission procedure itself and in the exchange of personal data. and, beyond its implementation, it is also the whole process of negotiating this agreement, and readmission agreements in general, that is problematic. we have repeatedly asked the commission to provide an evaluation of the agreements concluded so far. we do not have it, and what you are telling us today is not enough. how can we then reasonably and consciously approve this agreement without a balance sheet? this is what is shown by the study, which was sent to us, on the readmission policy in the eu, which was requested by the libe committee. the european parliament cannot fully exercise its powers unless it is duly informed during the negotiation and implementation of these agreements. the european parliament, now a co-legislator, must thus assert its position, and i therefore stress that tomorrow's vote will have a strong symbolic impact on the role of parliament. while partnership agreements are currently being negotiated with countries such as libya, for example, our role is to reject this agreement, thus showing the image of a parliament that is concerned about respect for human rights and wants greater transparency in the negotiations.
madam president, the european commission wrote in 2005: 'any decision to deport taken by the competent authorities of a member state must respect the geneva convention, protocol 67 and international treaties. no one may be removed, expelled or extradited to a country where there is a serious risk that he or she will be subjected to the death penalty, torture or other inhuman treatment or punishment". pakistan is a country of grave human rights violations: death penalty, torture, deaths in custody, enforced disappearances, and honor killings. several international conventions, it has been said, have not been signed. how can we ensure that the rights and safety of people who are readmitted are respected? no guarantees for ethnic or religious minorities, for women. nothing on the implications of the deal for afghan refugees. no monitoring of the implementation of the agreement by the european union agency for fundamental rights is foreseen. in the name of human rights and dignity, our parliament must reject this agreement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, for the first time, our parliament will have to give its assent to a readmission agreement. this is a very important responsibility, and i do not think that this parliament can exercise it lightly when it comes to the safety of the people concerned. it is a fact that pakistan is a state which has not signed or ratified either the geneva convention on the status of refugees or the convention on stateless persons, that this agreement could concern not only pakistan nationals, but also stateless persons, including citizens of other countries fleeing war and unrest, i am thinking in particular of afghans. they could find themselves, as a result of this agreement, being sent to a state which offers absolutely no guarantees. we therefore ask first - and i think this is the most legitimate request of our parliament - for an evaluation to be given to us. this was a commitment, moreover, of the commission to the previous readmission agreements. secondly, we are asking that pakistan be a signatory to these geneva conventions before any agreement can be considered. thirdly - and this is the least we can do - we ask that parliament be able to take part in the joint readmission committee, that is to say that it too should be able to monitor the conditions under which any future agreement would be implemented. in these circumstances, i do not think we should give our assent tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first make a general comment on this report, which i believe is very much in line with our relations with turkey - even if i have to congratulate the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs on their work - which is ambiguous. it reflects our indecision about this country. in the course of the amendments adopted or not in the committee on international trade, an underlying question, almost subliminal, and which went far beyond the framework of economic and trade relations with turkey, kept appearing: for or against the accession of this country to the union? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty. so yes, it is difficult to say today whether this report reflects the reality of our relations with that country and, above all, whether it really defines a european strategy in relation to it. it depends on which side of the barrier we are on: simple privileged partnership or membership. i would simply like to warn against the conflicting signals we are sending. we cannot continue to be ambiguous about a common destiny and at the same time worry about turkey's supposedly distancing itself from the union. a partnership requires not only openness but also trust. we must be frank, because yes, turkey still has a long way to go to make fundamental reforms and to meet its commitments, but we must also be confident, which also requires encouragement and positive signals from us. when the turks voted to reform their constitution a few days ago, they also did what the union is asking them to do: they are gradually bringing their law into line with our criteria for full membership. there is still a long way to go and a lot of work to be done, but let us not create any further obstacles and let us not divert our relationship from its purpose, which is membership. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
mr president, i always take the good things in a reform which is always very complicated. but the signal that the military is losing weight, that democracy is advancing, is for me an important signal to the european union. we can always make complaints and consider that things are not done, but a step is always a step. i am not a pessimist by nature and i consider that all the steps taken by turkey are in the right direction and that the expressed will is that of accession. let's try to go with him.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, as we speak commissioner potočnik is in new york for the united nations discussions on the international year of biodiversity, so i am sure you will understand that he is unable to be here in person today. it therefore falls to me on behalf of the commission to thank mrs de lange for having prepared this very timely report on the protection of biodiversity and the implementation of eu nature legislation. i would like to highlight the word ‘timely’, as the eu is now at a political crossroads concerning its policy on biodiversity and nature protection. the commission shares meps’ deep concern about the extremely fast pace of human-induced biodiversity loss. the commission is aware of, and alarmed at, the huge degradation of the ecosystem services which biodiversity provides, and on which we all depend for our survival. since the 2010 target was adopted, we in the eu have accomplished a number of things of which we can be proud. the eu’s natura 2000 network of protected areas has expanded to cover almost 20% of the eu’s territory, and is still expanding both on land and at sea. despite this, however, we have failed to achieve our previous eu target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. in spite of this failure and in spite of difficult discussions on an unprecedented economic crisis in europe, the spring european council endorsed a new biodiversity vision and target. our new target reflects a high level of ambition. it calls on the eu to half the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services by 2020 and restore them, where feasible, while stepping up the eu contribution to averting global biodiversity loss. in his speech on the state of the union, president barroso recently declared his commitment to this course, an issue to which he attaches the greatest importance and that needs to be tackled urgently. we know what the main challenges to meeting the targets have been. one of the key problems is the very nature of biodiversity policy itself. biodiversity is complex and cross-cutting. ownership of the problem is widely spread, and this diffusion has been a handicap, because in the end it boils down to the usual problem that when everyone is guilty, no one is to blame. this is a time of metamorphosis in the eu and many policies which have a very significant impact on biodiversity are in the process of being reviewed. this is the case of the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and the cohesion policy. we are thus at a very important crossroads, where we can follow the right road by fully mainstreaming biodiversity in those policies and reach our ‘safe way home’, or we can make the mistake of taking another road and never reaching our final point – the agreed 2020 target – and face irreversible biodiversity loss and potentially catastrophic consequences. much is said in the resolution about the very worrying trends of biodiversity loss in europe and globally, the huge pressures exerted on species and ecosystems, the possible solutions, the value of ecosystem services and their very strong links with the millennium development goals and the fight against climate change. we have an enormous task ahead to preserve life on our planet, but we should not be discouraged by the magnitude of the challenge. the commission is certainly not discouraged and we will be developing a new eu strategy to deliver on the 2020 biodiversity target. the commission is also working on a communication on financing the natura 2000 network of protected areas. a better use of the available funding will certainly provide higher biodiversity and nature conservation benefits. we fully agree with the very strong emphasis included in the report on the crucial need to fully implement nature legislation, without which we will never be able to meet our new target. we look forward to the discussions with the members of parliament, with a view to working together to shape the package of measures that will allow us to attain our new biodiversity target. i should like to take this opportunity to welcome the very valued contribution to this debate provided by mrs de lange’s report.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, this is the international year of biodiversity and this year we are called upon to commit ourselves to solving a triple crisis, the three elements of which are interlinked, which requires a coherent and integrated approach to tackling and overcoming an ecological crisis, which has direct repercussions on our economy and our social model. this triple crisis is about food security, climate change and biodiversity loss. it is worth remembering that biodiversity has no price, but its loss, decline and destruction have a cost, which contributes to the increase of poverty and generates considerable imbalances and losses in economic, welfare and cultural terms. that said - and now we know - 40 percent of our global economy is directly dependent on the services provided by nature, and 60 percent of those services are in serious decline. europe has lost 30% of its biodiversity in 40 years. the loss is now estimated at 1% of the union's gdp eur 50 billion per year , which would reach eur 14 trillion in 2050 if we do not act, because the erosion phenomenon is accelerating and the causes of the failure of previous european policies in this area are known and clearly stated in the report. the measures to be taken are also set out in the report. we therefore hope that it will be voted in favour by a large majority, and we thank mrs de lange for her work. it is not enough to change the words and intentions into action, the aims into means. it is difficult to hide some regrets: the council and commission's lack of reaction to the urgency of action, the regret that the fourth soil directive is still blocked by the council, the regret that the committee on the environment unanimously rejected the bio-conditionality of all public funding, the regret that the issues related to biodiversity have not been more widely integrated into the european union's 2020 strategy, which is capable of ensuring a sustainable way out of the crisis through the ecological conversion of our economic model. there is a requirement for consistency. there is still time to understand and commit to the preservation and enhancement of our natural capital. it's a worthwhile investment for the future.
in writing. the integration of biodiversity into activities covered by eu legislation must be recognised for its economic value. i wanted to contribute to this report by stressing the need for compensation for additional biodiversity services provided by farmers, which should take the form of a 'bonus' conditionality for practices in addition to the obligations. we also rightly stress the need to promote genetic diversity through the use of traditional agricultural varieties specific to certain regions. this is an important issue and one i am familiar with, since a traditional dairy breed of cattle in the vosges, my home region, will disappear without outside support for the time being. i also wanted to make it clear that the evaluation of projects financed under life+ must be done from the point of view of sustainability, since we unfortunately observe that some of the projects are not maintained when the funding stops. finally, i share the view that data collection cannot be neglected and i would like to welcome the creation of the national cynegetic observatory in france, which is working on the migration and wintering of land migrants thanks in particular to hunters' records, proof if necessary that hunters are actively engaged in the protection of biodiversity.
mr president, it is now 70 days since 32 mapuche prisoners, now accompanied by chilean members of parliament, have been on hunger strike, risking their lives. this hunger strike is demanding the application of the common law and their right to access to land. the european parliament has already defended this and the relevant international conventions provide for it: indigenous peoples must have access to collective ownership of their territories which they have traditionally occupied. this right has never been recognized in chile, which has led to a proliferation of unjustly disproportionate measures against the mapuche population, which, however, represents 5% of the population. to save the mapuche community, condemned to live without land and resources, chile will need the courage to recognize their rights and accept their demands. we must also fight here in the european parliament, at the united nations and in every other international body to ensure that the rights of indigenous peoples are respected. what are you going to do about it, mr president?
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament must take the opportunity of voting on this own-initiative report, which is not my report but the result of many compromises, to open a great debate. for almost ten years now, in all our texts, we have been repeating that the european economy must be one of knowledge and learning. it's about rising to the challenge that has become global with the explosion of the digital age. creative and innovative industries now account for 7% of the eu's gdp and 14 million jobs. they are and must remain the major asset of the european economy in the face of fierce competition. so we have to protect them, or they'll disappear. what is the tool to protect them? what is the tool that drives creators to innovate? what is the tool that ensures europe's cultural diversity and its global reach? what is the tool that allows us to pay our researchers, our creators, our artists, our engineers, our intellectuals? what is the tool that enables the creative and innovative industries to operate and develop in the economic sector? what is the tool that encourages smes and young creators to take on and transform the european economy by 2020? the answer to these questions is obvious: it's intellectual property law. everyone agrees on the intellectual property right to physical property. but since the advent of the internet, some of us have lost our minds a little bit. they have not yet understood that all digital assets must also be protected: music, films, books, video games, software. the internet should not be a soft drink for the mind. this is a wonderful privilege that we can rejoice in. we guarantee access to the internet for all european citizens, it is a right. but we also need to apply the legal texts that protect intellectual property on the internet because it is also the law, otherwise it will be the jungle and, in the jungle, it is the law of the strongest that prevails. is that really what we want? do we want to ruin the creative and innovative industries by sacrificing them to free enterprise? we, the european legislators, are we going to resign, fall into demagogy and populism, or are we capable of reflection and taking responsibility? i ask you this because the purpose of this report is to send a signal to the commission that we should join forces to find appropriate solutions. let us get rid of our populist reflexes! let us try to move beyond our political quarrels, to work for the common good! let us not leave the commission free to do so. the fate of the creative and innovative industries, and the people who depend on them, is in our hands. let's not hide, the debate is just beginning.
in writing. natural and man-made disasters have increased in number and intensity in recent years in europe, causing considerable human and material damage. this requires an improvement in the european prevention system. it is particularly important to identify, as soon as possible, the areas at risk in order to know the probability of flooding, the populations likely to be affected and the possible damage. such an approach, as provided for in the floods directive, will enable us to be more efficient during the disaster management cycle. the bad weather that hit the var department on 15 june 2010 reminds us that we still need to improve the eu's capacity to respond to emergencies. i am thinking in particular of the eu solidarity fund, which is designed to help victims of natural disasters, and which is sorely lacking in flexibility and responsiveness. the thresholds for activation are high and very strict, so that the assessment of the damage leaves the affected population in suspense or even deprives them of essential assistance. it is essential to create the conditions for european solidarity to be able to act more rapidly and more widely in favour of the people and territories affected.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, do we need to ensure energy security and independence? i know. but to ensure full security and independence, it is essential to protect gas and other energy sources from the ravages of speculative markets by declaring them public goods, and to conclude tariff agreements that respect the peoples of the producing countries and secure european consumers. this could be the task of a european energy agency under the control of the parliament and the council. the union must not be the vrp of the multinational oil and gas companies, especially after the disaster we have just experienced off the coast of florida. the multinationals are only interested in the interests of consumers. they serve their shareholders, while ignoring the rights of the people of the gas-producing countries to dispose freely of the products of their underground. unlike our rapporteur, i am convinced that the free market and the free movement of private companies operating in the gas sector will not secure the gas supply of the union. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
madam president, i would have liked to have had mrs ashton or at least members of the council present for such an important debate. china -- and that's a good thing -- has decided to become a leader in green technology. 38% of its massive stimulus plan is invested in these new industries. it is already the world's leading producer and exporter of solar panels and wind turbines. this is a welcome development, which can help to reduce the level of pollution in china and the world, if production is carried out in accordance with wto rules. but it is not. chinese exporting companies are massively supported by state banks and municipalities. while some green technology markets are open to foreign companies and investment, many remain contingent and sometimes closed. subjected to this unfair competition, our european industries are threatened. commissioner, china is a signatory to the wto agreements. the european union must ensure that it strictly observes the rules.
madam president, i think it is really time to look at europe's relations with china and even to define a new strategy. i propose three directions. firstly, we need, as the president-in-office of the council said, reciprocity. one example: chinese companies cannot continue to set up in our country while our companies are barred from their public market. you have to choose. i therefore expect measures to be taken in this direction. secondly, the union cannot continue to tolerate social, health and environmental dumping without taking action, which is directly responsible for too many relocations from our european territory. and the commission should no longer regard the ridiculous cost of labour or the deplorable working conditions as 'natural competitive advantages'. i would urge the commission to change its doctrine on this point. thirdly, we cannot ignore the issue of human rights any longer, and beijing's overt support for iran, north korea or burma, for example, is clearly problematic. the objective of the european union has always been to promote the emergence of democracy and democracies. we must not give in on this issue either.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i agree with my colleague that the council is not present at this parliament's meeting. i think that is a bit reckless of the council, and i should like to say so myself. as we approach the next summit on 6 october, it is imperative that china and the european union make a determined attempt to move forward together on the issue of climate change. last year at this time we were already busy in this house urging europe to do everything possible to achieve an ambitious and binding agreement in copenhagen. we have seen that the result has not lived up to our hopes and ambitions. a year later, the worries are the same, if not even more acute. if we are to be able to persuade our partners today, we must show that our resolve is absolutely intact, that we are, for example, giving ourselves the means to honour our commitments to the countries of the south. to do this, the introduction of innovative financing - and i heard president sarkozy's speech at the un yesterday - is becoming a necessary matter. the introduction of a carbon tax at our borders, for example, is not to be excluded. it would act as an incentive mechanism for countries that are not going far enough in their climate commitment; i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report and i hope that the commission will be able to support it.
in writing. i would like to express my deep disagreement with the way olaf is currently functioning. if fraud must be combated, it must be done in the service of european citizens and therefore in an independent, effective and respectful way of the protection of personal data of all citizens. as it stands, olaf is unable to meet these requirements. however, this text deals specifically with the conversion of precarious contracts into contracts of indefinite duration. no employee, in any organization, should be denied the right to a decent contract. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. e-commerce is an important contribution of the internet to economic activity. it is therefore important to remove the barriers to the single market in this sector, as the fragmentation of national legislation is holding back the dynamism of this profitable sector. i agree with the rapporteur that there are some shortcomings in the way consumers view online commerce. it is regrettable that 61% of crossborder transactions cannot be completed because online shops do not serve the country of the consumer concerned. in addition, users are concerned about the security of the payment system. the ability to make online purchases is generally conditioned by the quality of the internet connection. the priority should be to increase the number of internet users, in particular by improving the quality of the connection performance and an effort on the attractiveness of prices. it is also necessary to strengthen the confidence of online shoppers. like the rapporteur, i am in favour of the creation of a european trust label and better supervision of the internet, particularly in terms of the protection of personal data. particular efforts should also be made to protect minors using the internet.
in writing. i voted in favour of the arias echeverría report on e-commerce: e-commerce is one of the sectors with the greatest potential for growth and jobs in the coming decades, and the european union must exploit this potential to the full. it should also be noted that e-commerce facilitates and encourages the development of new niche markets for certain small and medium-sized enterprises that would not otherwise exist. i also support the idea that in developing our policies and regulatory frameworks relating to e-commerce, we pay particular attention to the needs of vulnerable consumers who would otherwise not have access to a wide range of consumer goods. i am thinking of people who are isolated or less mobile, citizens with low incomes or individuals living in less accessible, remote or peripheral areas. finally, i amended the text in committee to place more emphasis on the necessary development of consumer education tools online: we need to increase the digital skills of the greatest number of people, and improve their knowledge of their rights and obligations (main consumer rights on the internet, electronic commerce, data protection provisions in particular).
in writing. i could not vote for this report, even though it contains a number of positive elements, in particular on the defence of consumer interests and the consideration of the interests of smes in the e-commerce market. i particularly condemn the praise given to the commission for implementing the 3rd postal services directive which aims at liberalising these services and which will lead to further deterioration of the postal service in the eu, not, as the report claims, lower prices and better services. i cannot also deplore the fact that some member states have not yet transposed the services directive, because i hope that the commission will be able to quickly draw up a report to show the climate consequences of the implementation of this text. i regret that this text is largely in the spirit of openness to competition which we denounced in our rejection of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims in particular to improve the prevention of air accidents and the assistance to victims and their families. i fully support the rapporteur's approach, which calls for an analysis of the incidents at european level, which has not been done so far. the report also proposes improvements in the assistance to victims and their families, such as the introduction of a maximum of two hours for the families to be informed of the names of passengers on board. the ball is now in the hands of the transport ministers, who will, i hope, adopt this legislation as soon as possible.
in writing. air traffic has grown tremendously in recent years. despite many technological improvements, the risk of accidents has increased. it is therefore essential to adapt community legislation on this subject. i therefore welcome the proposals by mrs christine de veyrac to adapt the 1994 directive on accident prevention to the current situation on the aviation market. the creation of a network of national investigating authorities will reduce the disparities between member states, in particular through pooling resources and sharing good practice. the rights of victims and their families must also be protected. i agree with the rapporteur that the obligation for airlines to provide passenger lists within one hour of the announcement of an accident applies not only to community airlines but also to all airlines operating in europe. finally, i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to define the european aviation safety agency as an 'adviser' in relation to its participation in safety investigations. it is important that the regulation does not give the agency the means to be both judge and party in safety investigations.
in writing. strengthening the independence of safety investigations in the event of an aircraft accident, better support for the families of the victims, optimal protection of data and privacy during these investigations; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve air safety and these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report. i voted enthusiastically for this text, which provides in particular that airlines must produce the list of passengers on board the aircraft within two hours of an accident, in order to inform the families. in addition, the establishment of a european network of safety investigation authorities is a very good thing in that it will make it possible to formulate recommendations on aviation policies and regulations but also and above all to pool resources and share good practice. this is therefore an important text and i welcome this important step forward in ensuring ever higher standards of passenger safety.
in writing. i support the report by christine de veyrac which aims to improve safety in civil aviation. in this context it is essential that the exact causes of incidents and accidents be brought to light. this requires that the independence of the investigations be guaranteed, that they be carried out without any pressure from the authorities responsible for regulating or certifying air operations, which may be held liable in the facts. the networking of civil aviation safety authorities in europe will also promote best practice through the exchange of information and the recommendations made by this network will help to improve european regulations in this field. the text also includes provisions to ensure that the families of victims are better taken into account in the event of an accident, such as the obligation for airlines to produce a list of all persons on board within two hours of the announcement of an accident and the prohibition on making this list public without informing the families and only if they do not object. these are two important advances, and i welcome them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it aims to improve the independence and transparency of investigations into air incidents and accidents. i welcome the adoption of this text, which should speed up the conduct of investigations and improve the information of the victims' families, while guaranteeing the privacy of individuals through welcome provisions. this text thus responds to the requests of the families of victims faced with investigations that often leave them destitute. this new community legislation should make it possible to provide better information to families whose members have been victims of an accident. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the privacy of passengers, such as the obligation to inform the family within two hours, and the obligation for airlines (community and non-community) to provide the authorities with the list of passengers on board the aircraft. the text adopted will also improve and speed up the conduct of investigations without pressure by the authorities responsible for regulating or controlling the aviation sector, by providing access to the various flight documents and by making the final investigation report obligatory for publication no later than 12 months after the incident or accident in question.
in writing. we all remember the gas crises of 2006, 2008 and 2009. they had led to the cutting off of gas supplies to millions of europeans, who were collateral victims of the disagreement between russia and ukraine. i welcome the work done by members on this subject. this resolution allows for network interconnection and better crisis management. for me, this is a great symbol of what european solidarity can be. together, in solidarity with each other, we are stronger, that's obvious.
in writing. the security of gas supply to the union is one of the essential dimensions of the necessary development of a european energy strategy. in the current context of energy dependence, it is important to bring together producers, distributors, consumers and public authorities to speak with one voice and not to make the union the weak link in energy geopolitics. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur in welcoming the proposal for a regulation to guarantee the security of gas supply. this regulation, in combination with the legislation on the internal energy market, will contribute to reducing the union's vulnerability to external supply disruptions. it will also strengthen the leadership of european gas companies in the world. the rapporteur stresses the essential role of companies in managing gas crises. i support his call for their role in the early warning system to be strengthened. as regards the declaration of a community emergency, i agree with the rapporteur that the 10% threshold proposed by the commission does not cover the possible 100% supply disruption in certain areas. it should therefore be possible to declare a community emergency for a specific geographical area.
in writing. reducing the eu's energy dependence must be the first priority of our common energy policy. the means to achieve this are known and coincide with the commitments made to combat climate change: to achieve 20% energy savings - in particular by improving our energy efficiency - and to increase the share of renewable energy to 20% by 2020, while diversifying our energy sources. europe must also guarantee energy solidarity to each of its members, and to this end it must improve the management of the gas and oil stocks of the member states and provide for the construction of infrastructure to deliver energy to countries threatened with shortages. we need a european public policy, jointly funded by the european union and the member states, to meet the energy and environmental challenge, but also to help create growth in the coming decades.
in writing. this text makes natural gas a common commodity. it's not a real one. it is an energy resource and therefore a common human good. it has the distinctive feature of being fossil. for these two reasons, it must be used with the parsimony required to protect our ecosystem and with due regard for the general interest of european citizens and of humanity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but to try to impose the continuation of this logic even in the event of a supply disruption is to make fun of european citizens! it is high time to create a public energy hub to serve the european citizens.
in writing. we all remember the suspension of gas supplies from russia to ukraine in the winter of 2008-2009, which had the dramatic consequence of depriving 17 member states of gas supplies, leaving many citizens without heating, even when outdoor temperatures were at their lowest. we must do everything we can to prevent this from happening again ! i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr alejo vidal-quadras, on the legislative proposal on the security of gas supply in europe. i welcome the introduction in the new legislation of a guarantee of supply to so-called 'protected' customers (such as homes and essential services such as hospitals) by gas companies for a period of 30 days in the event of a crisis. this is a real breakthrough. in addition, the possibility for the european commission to declare a 'union emergency' or a 'regional emergency' will facilitate the establishment of rapid and coordinated measures to resolve, as soon as possible, any future crisis.
in writing. the european parliament has approved a readmission agreement between the eu and pakistan, which will facilitate the deportation of the many pakistani nationals who are in europe illegally. while agreements with third countries are needed to define the procedures for the readmission of persons in europe illegally, the case of pakistan is a special one. islamabad has not yet ratified the 1951 geneva convention relating to the status of refugees. the agreement also covers people who have transited through pakistan, including many afghans who can now be more easily returned to the war-torn country they fled. this is not acceptable. in addition, this summer's floods have plunged pakistan into one of the biggest crises in its history. the current situation does not allow for safe return to this country which is already struggling to accommodate huge numbers of displaced persons. the construction of a humane and reasonable immigration policy is a key social issue which must be conducted in accordance with the rule of law: that is why, pending pakistan's ratification of the geneva convention, i did not support this readmission agreement.
in writing. i voted against the eu-pakistan readmission agreement. this is the 12th agreement of its kind, but the first to be ratified by the european parliament. however, despite our many requests to the european commission, no evaluation or assessment of the previous agreements has been provided, which would have allowed us to have clear ideas about the conditions for implementing these agreements. more specifically in the case of pakistan, whose political situation is very sensitive, this agreement is questionable in many respects. pakistan, not known for its scrupulous respect for human rights, is not a signatory to international conventions on refugees or stateless people. this should have been a sine qua non condition in the negotiation. in addition, there are still many areas of uncertainty in the agreement: there is no guarantee that minors will be excluded from its scope, and the procedures and deadlines are unclear. in approving this agreement, the european parliament not only sets an unfortunate precedent, but has also missed an opportunity to show the image of an institution concerned with respect for human rights and desirous of greater transparency around these agreements.
in writing. the assembly has repeatedly condemned pakistan for its discriminatory policies and the persecution of afghan refugees. just a month ago, terrible floods brought millions of pakistanis onto the roads. this agreement ignores all human reality. not only does it contravene article 13 of the universal declaration of human rights, but like any such agreement, it is also contrary to the principles of refugee protection in the convention. voting for such a text would be a denial of international law and of the humanism which the eu still claims to be the heir to. i vote against it.
in writing. this is the first time since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty that the european parliament has voted on a readmission agreement. these agreements are symbolic of the migration policies that are building a fortress europe, which are driving out people driven by poverty and war seeking refuge on our territory. parliament now has the tools to force the council and the commission to put their words into action. the agreement submitted to us has many shortcomings and contains no guarantees as to the situation of those who will be returned to that country. we are well aware of the human rights situation in pakistan, which is not even a signatory to the 1951 geneva convention. the gue-ngl group calls for an evaluation of the existing readmission agreements as it would highlight the devastating effects of these policies which despise human beings who did not have the chance to be born on the territory of the union. the european parliament is not going to be left out of this vote. today he has lost the opportunity to make his voice heard on the actual implementation of the human rights speeches.
in writing. turkey has been part of a customs union with the european union since 1996, and economic and trade relations between the two have been very developed. turkey is the seventh largest trading partner of the european union, while the european union is turkey's largest trading partner. such exchanges should be strengthened. however, these must continue to be beneficial to both parties. that is why i voted in favour of the amendments of my political group, the epp, calling for more reciprocity. turkey must stop using the anti-dumping instrument for protectionist purposes, must challenge its technical barriers to trade and better enforce intellectual property rights.
in writing. we have approved the efd resolution, which is not satisfactory. but it clearly states that the deepening of the current eu-turkey relations replaces and makes turkey's membership of the european union obsolete. however, any further deepening of relations between the eu and cyprus should be closely dependent on the eu's recognition of cyprus, which it continues to refuse and whose territory it illegally and militarily occupies. turkey, a proud country and former ally against the communist threat, is a bridge between europe and asia. it is a bridge, but it is not a european country, geographically, demographically, historically or culturally. finally, it should be noted that the promises made in ankara in 1963, in the midst of the cold war and for strategic reasons, no longer have any meaning, and that we would waste less time, turks and europeans alike, thinking about a privileged partnership than about an accession which our citizens do not want and which many turks also oppose.
in writing. mr metin's report would have us believe that the customs union, which emerged from the eec-turkey association agreement of 1963, would be a success in terms of economic and commercial integration between the present european union and turkey. that this would have helped to support european growth, and hence french growth... not only has turkey failed to meet its commitments in this process, but over the decades we have seen the phenomenon of relocations and massive job losses. this is far from being an economic and social asset for our country and our european neighbours in the context of the globalist concert. but instead of acknowledging this, the report goes so far as to criticise the use of national technical rules and standards to protect national markets. the rapporteur considers these to be excessive anti-dumping measures, thus hampering turkey's trade with europe. all this is of course in the direction of strengthening the process of turkey's accession to the european union. this time, from the point of view of industrial and commercial profit for the europeans, globalists and ultra-liberals who are greedy for profit. of course, we reject anything that might lead to that.
in writing. turkey, like all states, is a sovereign state and as such must be respected. it is unacceptable that the european union should allow itself to threaten to stop the accession negotiations, which are otherwise undesirable for the necessary social and fiscal harmonization from above. this house would be unworthy of the friendship of the turkish people if it voted for a text which obliges them to destroy their agricultural jobs (50% of jobs in turkey) by abolishing all taxes on agricultural products and which makes the rights of investors prevail over those of the people. i am voting against this text.
in writing. this own-initiative report deplores the lack of progress in the protection of biodiversity. due to a lack of political will, funding, transposition of european legislation, etc., the absolute minimum target of halting biodiversity loss set for 2010 has not been reached and is being postponed to 2020. the report then lists the measures to be taken to ensure that this essential objective is met. concerned about the state of our environment and supporting the approach proposed by the rapporteur, esther de lange, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the current rate of biodiversity loss is alarming. the rapporteur believes that the rate at which species are becoming extinct is between 50 and 1000 times faster than the natural rate. at european level, the natura 2000 network aims to contribute to biodiversity by conserving natural habitats and species of wild fauna and flora. the rapporteur rightly regrets, however, the differences which still exist between the member states in the transposition and interpretation of the natura 2000 directives. the fragmentation of funding in the field of biodiversity is also a problem. most of the expenditure is spread over the eafrd, the common fisheries policy, cohesion policy and the seventh research framework programme. synergies will have to be found in the next multiannual financial framework. finally, i welcome the recent commission communication on a long-term strategy for biodiversity. it is desirable that this communication and the consultation which it entails should lead to the formulation of precise policy objectives and the implementation of relevant actions at european level.
in writing. the figures for the evolution of biodiversity are extremely worrying. by 2050, species extinction could increase tenfold. in europe, 42% of mammals, 43% of birds, 45% of butterflies, 30% of amphibians, 45% of reptiles and 52% of freshwater fish are threatened with extinction. this is not acceptable, not only from an ethical point of view, but also from an environmental and economic point of view. the european commission must therefore ensure that biodiversity is better integrated into its various policy areas, including agriculture, regional policy, industry, development cooperation and research and innovation. the union should also aim to strengthen international efforts to halt the loss of biodiversity and thus contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals by 2015. the european parliament has almost unanimously adopted this report and will have to act accordingly when we debate the reform of the common agricultural policy, the fisheries policy or the new financial perspectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because the european union must do everything possible to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020 and restore ecosystems. i deeply regret that the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been met. the european commission must ensure that biodiversity is better integrated into other areas of union action, in particular agriculture, forestry, fisheries, regional and cohesion policy, industry, development cooperation and research and innovation. our public spending alone will not achieve the union's main objective, which is why corporate social responsibility must also integrate this biodiversity dimension.
in writing. 80% of the french republic's biodiversity is found in its overseas territories (upe and oct). 42% of the territory of the island of reunion has just been classified by unesco as a world heritage site. these are objective reasons for the need for the european union to make a special effort to protect biodiversity and to exploit its real potential in the octs and the overseas countries and territories. however, the french outermost regions and all the octs of europe are not eligible for the natura 2000 and life+ programmes. this gap should be corrected. that is why i have proposed that a special budget line be included in the draft budget for 2011. this budget line will create a specific programme, called best, for the oct and the ors for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity. this programme was promoted after the reunion conference and supported by the european council under the french presidency. it is time to make this initiative a reality.
in writing. human activities are causing biodiversity to decline at an unprecedented rate. in europe, nearly half of all mammals are threatened, and the situation is similar for birds. if this evolution continues at the rate observed in recent decades, it will leave a natural environment irreversibly damaged. i am deeply concerned about the current situation, and while the international political agenda does not give the urgency it should to combat the loss of biodiversity, i support the report by my colleague esther de lange. the text proposes several ways of strengthening the fight against biodiversity loss in europe and calls for specific policies to support investments - both public and private - that have a positive impact on biodiversity, while those that are harmful to it must be discouraged. to be truly effective, it is clear that this eu fight must be accompanied by action at international level, and it is imperative that the commission and the member states support the integration of biodiversity protection into global processes, such as the millennium development goals.
in writing. 2010 was supposed to be the year when the european union finally had to take care of biodiversity. it is clear that its strategy in this area has been a fiasco despite its repeated commitments since 2001, in particular to deal with the risks of extinction of many species. i therefore supported the report by mrs de lange, which was adopted by the european parliament on 21 september. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. it adopted three key measures, which it called for to be implemented as a matter of urgency: an integrated approach to biodiversity in all relevant sectoral policies (agriculture, fisheries, transport, etc.), the application and enforcement of community environmental legislation by the member states, and increased funding for measures in this field beyond the life instrument. at present, member states do not provide sufficient support for life projects. beyond that, it is about raising awareness among our citizens of the state of biodiversity and the serious risks to ecosystems. only 17% of european citizens are aware that biodiversity is in serious decline.
in writing. storm xynthia, floods in madeira, forest fires in greece, etc. europeans are regularly tested by natural disasters with incalculable human and economic consequences. this own-initiative report recalls that an anticipatory approach is more effective and less costly than an approach consisting simply of responding to disasters and sets out a list of actions to be taken. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is very useful and that the european commission should draw inspiration from it as soon as possible, particularly as regards forest fire prevention. the next step for me will be to set up a european civil protection force to help states cope with major natural disasters.
in writing. in the first six years of the european union solidarity fund, 62 applications for financial assistance were submitted. almost a third of these were natural disasters, which were classified as "major disasters". i am pleased, for example, with the assistance provided by the solidarity fund in my region of brittany following the storm xinthia. european solidarity is essential to manage the economic, social, environmental and human consequences of natural disasters in the best possible way. the rapporteur recalls that disaster prevention must be a priority for cooperation between member states in this field. it is therefore proposed to create a network of national, regional and local authorities to exchange good practice on prevention measures. i also agree with the rapporteur that we should create a financial framework at union level for the prevention of natural disasters, in order to strengthen and coordinate existing instruments. cohesion policy plays a leading role in disaster prevention. it contributes to reducing disparities between regions in this area, in particular by improving the capacities of regions particularly exposed to risks.
in writing. after the 2004 indian ocean tsunami, the january 2010 haiti earthquake and the february 2010 xynthia storm, how many more tragedies will it take before we finally have a community approach to natural disaster prevention? natural and man-made disasters are becoming more frequent, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that national measures are more effective and better coordinated and that european measures are more flexible. beyond prevention, i would like to remind you that there is a michel barnier report on the table since 2006 for the establishment of a rapid reaction force for natural disasters: what are we waiting for to adopt it? what are we waiting for to apply it?
in writing. fires in portugal, floods in saxony, forest fires in greece, xynthia in western france - these last years have shown us how necessary and beneficial a genuine european strategy for dealing with natural disasters is: a strategy for prevention but also a strategy for the european union's response and capacity to react to such disasters. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls for a comprehensive, coordinated and balanced european approach in this area, based on the fundamental principle of european solidarity. i very much hope that the commission will soon present concrete proposals to strengthen cooperation and exchange of practices between member states in this field, to enable a better networking of the competent authorities, to improve procedures, to facilitate a quicker triggering of the european solidarity fund and above all to ensure that disaster prevention is included in the next financial perspective of the european union.
in writing. in recent years, the member states of the european union have been the victims of a considerable number of natural and man-made disasters: fires, storms, floods, droughts, etc. the human, economic and social costs of these disasters, which are often transnational, are dramatic. i believe that it is essential to consider the prevention of these disasters at european level, and i support the report by my colleague, mr joão ferreira. while cooperation between member states and pooling of resources should be increased in order to increase the effectiveness of prevention mechanisms across the union, the cross-cutting integration of prevention of these disasters into eu policies should also be improved. in addition, better coordination and cooperation between member states in the field of research and development in the prevention of natural or man-made disasters should be encouraged.
in writing. in the context of the international summit on the achievement of the millennium development goals in new york and the adoption by the european parliament of the report on poverty reduction in developing countries, it seems important to me to emphasise the role that microcredit can play in achieving these goals. microcredit generally consists of small loans to entrepreneurs who cannot access conventional bank loans. in developing countries, it is the basis for many micro-economic projects that promote wealth creation and, consequently, development. grassroots project financing helps to create economic networks in the countries concerned and involve small local actors. microcredit makes it possible to make these actors responsible for their own development and to reduce their dependence on conventional development aid. by reaching sectors as diverse as agriculture, craft industries and the social economy, microcredit can thus have a real impact on local development. i therefore call on the european commission and the member states to give serious consideration to this responsible form of development aid.
in writing. the united nations summit on the implementation of the millennium development goals opened yesterday. although some progress has been made, we are still far from the target set for reducing poverty by 2015. the first imperative to achieve this is job creation in developing countries, whereas according to a recent joint report by the imf and the ilo, there were more than 210 million unemployed people worldwide in 2010, with the crisis having led to the loss of 30 million jobs since 2008. the ilo calls for employment to be seen no longer as a consequence of other policies but as a primary objective and pillar of growth strategies. sustainable development, support for employment and decent work require support for diversification of the economy, respect for ilo standards, the right to a social protection base for all, investment in public services, and the provision of basic needs such as access to water, health and food security. more employment will also be a condition for stability and the strengthening of democracy. that's the meaning of the theocharous report.
in writing. this report is acceptable. although it does not call into question trade liberalization and relies on the wto, a considerable number of the measures proposed are likely to improve the living conditions of the citizens of the countries of the south. the promotion of social protection systems, the integration of the social economy into cooperation agreements, the defence of a quality health system for all and free access for all to basic, higher and vocational education, the defence of access to drinking water, the encouragement of respect by the eu for the electoral choices of the population are, among other things, to be credited to this text. it even advocates the establishment of independent parliaments with real legislative, budgetary and control powers. the implementation of such recommendations might help to ensure that the laudable intentions of this own-initiative report are respected.
in writing. i abstained on this report, which contains contradictory provisions to say the least. on the one hand, it calls for a review of privatisation policies, particularly in public services, and supports investment measures in favour of these, affirms the positive impact of squats and the social economy on development, and notes the need to implement the ilo conventions on international labour standards. but at the same time the majority of parliament has adopted a paragraph which calls, which i find unacceptable, for the member states and the commission to respect the foundations of the free market.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner dalli regrets that he cannot be here tonight to discuss this matter himself and i ask you to excuse him. i am, however, pleased to replace it with the formal adoption of a first reading agreement on the important issue of pharmacovigilance. let me take this opportunity to thank all those who worked tirelessly to get this agreement, including the rapporteurs, co-rapporteurs, non-rapporteurs and especially mrs mcavan, rapporteur for the committee on the substance. the proposal which will be put to the vote in parliament tomorrow will improve patient protection against the adverse effects of medicines. the pharmacovigilance system for medicinal products for human use in the european union will be strengthened and modernised. it will not only provide better protection for public health, but it will also ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and streamline existing regulations and procedures. in addition, the legislation will increase transparency and patient participation in the field of pharmacovigilance. finally, with the new scientific committee on pharmacovigilance set up within the european medicines agency, the ema will ensure access to the most advanced scientific and medical know-how to assess the safety of medicines and to recommend risk mitigation measures. the commission is very pleased that a pre-negotiated common position was reached between the institutions before the summer holidays and fully supports the substance of the agreement reached. under this agreement, the proposed amendment to raise the grade of the director of the ema has been withdrawn and the commission will issue the following statement:'in response to the request of the european parliament and the council concerning the grade of the director of the european medicines agency, the commission, in order not to delay the adoption of this important proposal, undertakes to re-publish the vacancy notice for the recruitment of the next director of the ema to the grade ad/15 instead of ad/14. the commission considers that this issue should be addressed in the context of the horizontal debate on the role of the european union agencies within the interinstitutional working group on agencies. the question is open for consideration in the interinstitutional working party. if, at the end of this examination, it should be concluded that the appropriate grade should be at a different level, this could be taken into account in subsequent publications of this post.'
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, i will take a minute and come back a minute later. i am speaking now as rapporteur for the opinion of the itre committee and i would like to thank mrs mcewan, rapporteur for this report. i would like to say that, on this issue, it was very important to have better protection for patients, better information, but also to fight against the domination of the pharmaceutical industry which wanted to have the side effects, which wanted to have the analysis and interpretation. at the level of the itre committee and also at the envi committee , we have therefore obtained that as far as the collection is concerned, it is the doctors and patients who can report side effects to the national authorities. as regards analysis and interpretation, it is the responsibility of the member states to detect and monitor adverse drug reactions. it has been found in the context of h1n1 that it was the swedish national authorities who spoke of narcolepsy, although until now these side effects were not known in relation to this vaccination. this is very important. i am very disappointed, however, that we have not achieved financial independence from the national authorities. finally, on control, there has been a real advance compared to this pharmacovigilance committee, which is separate from the committee on medicinal products for human use, and i hope that information is also more important at the patient level, whether on the package leaflet or in relation to ultrasound.
mr president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs mcavan, on her work. first reading agreements are no longer really relevant in this house because they often lead, it is true, to reducing the power of parliament, but this is undoubtedly a very good first reading agreement. i must also say that our fictitious rapporteur, mrs parvanova, has done an excellent job. the progress made is not insignificant, particularly in a field which is dear to me: that of transparency. for me, transparency should be the rule, and access restriction the exception. this is absolutely essential if we want to move towards a counter-expertise that is developing. the right to keep proprietary information secret must not be exercised to the detriment of health and environmental information. that is why i tabled several amendments aimed at ensuring a high level of transparency. i would have preferred to go further, but the result is already satisfactory. on the text itself, one provision which might seem anecdotal, but probably is not is important: it is the request to the commission to look into the question of water and soil pollution by pharmaceutical residues, accompanied by an assessment to measure, if necessary, the impact of this legislation.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing pharmacovigilance. this is an important pillar of the pharma package we have been working on for some time, and this first reading agreement will help to protect patients better against the risks associated with the use of medicines. this agreement is therefore a major step forward for patient safety, as rare features can be detected more quickly and unsafe medicines can be withdrawn from the market more quickly, if necessary. in reality, it is not a question of reinventing pharmacovigilance, but simply of improving things by means of a better knowledge of the risks associated with medicines, through greater cooperation between the competent authorities. the interest of this regulation is to improve knowledge of adverse reactions through the development of the eudravigilance database within the european medicines agency, which will become the single entry and consultation point for all information related to a medicinal product. this will improve communication between the competent authorities. national authorities will also have a greater capacity to reassess the benefit-risk balance, by reactively capturing and integrating any signals or new data, and to adapt information to healthcare professionals and patients accordingly. but you also need to be careful not to frighten the patient with exaggerated admonitions. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information is not used in a way that would be harmful to the consumer. a drug is a complex product. it is important to explain, to inform and above all not to alarm. it is clear that today the leaflet has lost its relevance. it's sometimes hard to read. we should now consider how to develop it, together with all the partners, in order to better understand patients and, above all, to give patients confidence in the medicine.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, pharmacovigilance, which consists of analysing the side effects of medicines and requesting their withdrawal from the market in the event of an alert, has attracted little interest amongst the pharmaceutical industry. this is a matter of vital importance for the safety and quality of our health systems, and i cannot - as much as i am pleased to see you, commissioner - but regret the absence of mr dalli. because i was appalled by the commission's proposals, which put pharmacovigilance systems at risk for the benefit of the pharmaceutical companies. fortunately, the work of parliament and the council has led to some improvement in the situation. this will not make it possible to generalize the granting of advance marketing authorizations for new medicinal products. progress in transparency is also welcome. but i think this agreement represents a missed opportunity to improve pharmacovigilance and i am particularly concerned about the lack of guarantees of system independence. thus, while the role of the committee for risk assessment is strengthened, it is not entirely independent of the european committee for the grant of marketing authorisation. but as we know from experience, this committee is reluctant to reverse its decisions. as for the national structures, there is absolutely nothing on the subject. secondly, i regret that member states do not have to report any conflicts of interest of experts in the european committee. finally, and most importantly, this agreement puts an end to the best guarantee of independence, namely public funding for pharmacovigilance activities, which will now be financed mainly by private fees. i congratulate mrs mcavan on the progress made on the commission's original proposal, but in view of certain problems i wonder why this dossier should have been closed in one reading, when, given time, we could have strengthened patients' confidence in quality and safe pharmaceutical products.
mr president, i would like to return to the environmental impact of medicines. since 1965, europe has set three criteria for obtaining marketing authorization, namely efficacy, safety and pharmaceutical quality of the medicinal product, but nothing on the impact of medicinal products on the environment. but you know that right now, estrogen found in river water changes the sex of fish. you also know that there are also high levels of drug residues in sewage treatment plants and in hospital waste water. we had a lot of talk about it. there was a debate and in the pharmacovigilance directive this was finally taken into account in the form of a recital, which asks the commission, on the basis of data provided by the european medicines agency, the environment agency and the member states, to publish a report on the scale of the problem and an assessment of the desirability and usefulness of amending the european union legislation on medicines or in other areas. what i am asking the commission to do is to report on the basis of these data, because indirectly this affects human health, since in many cases it is the consumption of water that has caused the side effects that have been observed.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to make a brief statement to congratulate all those who have worked on this subject and to express my surprise at the fact that one point has not been dealt with, namely cross-pharmacovigilance. indeed, in vertical, single-product, the report is extremely comprehensive and the work is remarkable. however, most of the problems are due to prescription medication, as 92 per cent of patients are treated in multiple rounds. a drug that, vertically, has no particular side effects, will have highly toxic side effects if it is crossed with another drug. it is of the utmost importance that we have a database of drug cross-reactions, which is available to professionals and patients alike. this is all the more necessary as many patients have prescription treatments to which they add self-medication, without any indication, in general, on the capacity for sometimes highly toxic cross-effects. i think that this subject has been touched upon but not dealt with, and that is extremely regrettable.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, thanks to the work of everyone, and in particular the rapporteur, we have achieved at least one objective: that of having reached, after very difficult discussions, agreement on the key point of the authorization procedure. our position on this issue was common sense. the aim was to ensure the sustainability of the system, i.e. to avoid echa being overburdened with a single application and unable to respond, and to promote a system which encourages low-risk products. the compromise reached on this point is balanced. it gives both time to time, since the system has four years to set up, and a premium to the least dangerous products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the toxicity of certain products, such as pesticides, is obvious and i fully agree with what mr jørgensen has said about the impact on health and the environment of a number of products. for this reason, we reject any provision which could lead to questioning the quality of product evaluation or to undermining the system of incentives for substitution of substances of very high concern. that is why a series of amendments which have just been tabled are completely unbalanced and cannot be supported. do not be mistaken! this is the result of an arbitrage that prioritizes short-term interests over the protection of health and the environment. let us never forget that the health and the environment are not only the defence of our own values, but also the economic interest of the community in defending them.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i think there are some advances in this text, two of which are fundamental: the obligation to label the presence of nanoparticles in a product, and above all the fact that each of these nanosubstances will also be subject to a separate assessment, which is not the case at present. another breakthrough is the possibility of excluding endocrine disruptors from the substances used with concrete and really applicable exclusion criteria. but there is a but. we disagree on the concrete means for the european chemicals agency because this agency should normally be responsible for the evaluation and authorization of biocidal products. we want to extend echa's remit - which we agree with - but in this case it means giving echa the means to really do its job. we cannot ask echa to do much more, to reduce the time needed to evaluate substances, and at the same time to reduce its resources. otherwise we risk being faced with a lightweight assessment, which is quick but insufficient because it is too superficial. i therefore ask you, mrs klass, to reconsider your budget proposal for echa's tasks in this area. as it stands, i tell you, your proposal is not serious, and this will undermine the quality of the work of this european institution which is essential to the security of european citizens and consumers. this is a big issue. you cannot ask for more if there are no means for it, or else it will be an administrative agency that will respond to the industrial lobby.
mr president, as our rapporteur, mrs klass, has pointed out, biocidal products play a vital role, whether in the domestic sphere, and therefore in the private sphere, or in the sphere of public places. biocides ensure our hygiene and health every day. the important thing is to obtain a text that is both coherent and community. firstly, it is consistent with other european legislation. for example, reach legislation cannot and must not conflict with the biocidal products regulation. it is important to avoid the administrative and legislative red tape that stifles and hinders our businesses. as such, i would like to support the compromise reached by our rapporteur, mrs klass, on the thorny issue of the exclusion criteria and the replacement candidates. similarly, the framework formulation approach for all biocidal products is an essential element of the regulation. it will significantly increase the efficiency of the community authorization system. a community text will follow. the introduction of the concept of centralised authorisation in the union, or the simplification of the procedure and the reduction of the time limits for authorisation of certain tests relating to research and development activities, are two positive first steps towards harmonising the european market for biocidal products. finally, let us not lose sight of our ambitions for this text: protection, yes, but the building of our community market and european innovation must also be an integral part of our approach.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what does the european commission's proposal mean in summary? first, a glaring lack of ambition. the commission, supported by the council, refused to revise the multiannual financial framework and gave itself a good conscience by only making technical adjustments, which were inevitable because they were linked to the application of the lisbon treaty. secondly, the breach of the commitments made to parliament. indeed - it should be recalled - in 2006, our parliamentary colleagues had accepted, but with a hint of a smile, what they already analysed - and rightly so - as an outdated financial framework, without room for manoeuvre, a resignation letter. they then conditioned their vote on the assurance of a commitment to a thorough revision of the mff mid-term. this is a good demonstration of the lack of credit that the commission and the council give to the decisions of parliament, which is sovereign - it should be recalled - and represents the citizens, by flouting them. thirdly, this proposal reveals a paradox: increased powers, entrusted by the states to the union, of large-scale projects, desired by europeans, in a budgetary framework which the council and the commission refuse to change, even though they know it is inadequate, preferring instead to call for redeployment, a miracle solution in their eyes but, in mine, a narrow vision of the european project. in addition, how can we explain to the european citizens without blushing that structural projects are either not financed, such as the financial stability mechanism, which is so much publicized, or are financed, such as iter, by punctuating heading 1a, which aims at competitiveness, growth and employment, all policies that meet the expectations of the citizens? we're going into the wall with a horn. parliament knows this, and it is one of the virtues of the böge report to recall this.
madam president, the treaty of lisbon gives the european union new powers in new areas. it provides that the union must have the means necessary to achieve its objectives and carry out its policies. however, since the start of the current multiannual financial framework, annual budgets have generally only been able to be agreed on the basis of existing margins. as the rapporteur recalls, the margin has narrowed considerably and is not expected to increase by 2013; the crisis has passed through here. this leaves no possibility of meeting unforeseen needs. such a situation is dangerous, even intolerable. it is therefore essential to revise the multiannual financial framework in order to ensure the resources necessary for the implementation of the new competences provided for in the lisbon treaty. it is also important to allow the financing of the political priorities defined in the framework of the europe 2020 strategy, as our colleague mr kelly said just now. i would remind you, commissioner, that the treaty of lisbon has given parliament equal powers with the council in budgetary matters. parliament must therefore make its views known in the budget debate, as proposed by our colleague mr böge, whom i congratulate again on his report.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, there is a real need for a european strategy for the economic and social development of mountain regions, islands and areas with very low population density. article 174 of the lisbon treaty also reflects the european union's awareness of the need for these territories to overcome permanent handicaps. the commission must now propose concrete strategies to ensure that the citizens of these territories are on an equal footing with the rest of europe, so that they can effectively compensate for the handicaps they suffer in their daily lives and in their economic activities. in this respect, gdp per capita - a constantly emphasized criterion for the structural funds - cannot be sufficient on its own. these regions are losing a lot of population and as they lose more, their residual population could even access a higher and higher gdp per capita. we must therefore have a much more elaborate approach to these areas and our group wants to stress this point. article 174 of the treaty of lisbon, commissioner, recognises the specific nature of these territories. specific measures are therefore needed to develop and address specific problems. these measures must be eligible for structural funds, particularly when the problems are particularly acute: the effects of global warming, for example, in the islands, in the mountains, energy supply, de-icing, transport problems, etc. we therefore call on the commission to provide specific funds for these territories in the next financial perspective covering the 2014-2020 programming period. we also want to see the continuation and widespread use of mechanisms such as the european groupings of territorial cooperation, insisting that the obstacles to border cooperation which have been put in place be removed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the alps are among the most urbanised mountain regions in europe. they have the most important water resources, but their current economic situation makes them vulnerable to global warming. the alps could play a key role in becoming climate neutral by 2050, as defined by the four environment ministers of the german-speaking alpine countries in june this year. they should be a preferred site for renewable energy generation and contribute to the 20% target by 2020. (speaker breaks off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to welcome this debate today, which once again highlights the need for the union to appreciate and value its regional diversity. in these times of negotiation of the new 2014-2020 framework programmes, it seems to me important to highlight the adjustments that specific regions should benefit from. the questions of continuity and territorial cohesion must be at the centre of our concerns. but the development of mountainous, island and sparsely populated areas requires more than a set of derogating measures. we need a horizontal approach. we must put in place instruments which can bring all the areas of community action together in synergy in order to enhance their added value. as a representative of the outermost regions, i am also looking forward to the new eu strategy for the outermost regions, which the commission has promised us for early 2011.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our europe is the symbol of the union in its diversity: diversity of paths, cultures, approaches, and also diversity of our territories and our lands. although the european union is made up of very different components, the objectives of territorial, economic and social cohesion must remain the pillars of all our action, and the treaty of lisbon explicitly recognises this. it is in this context that we must pay particular attention to the mountainous regions, the islands and the sparsely populated areas. i am elected from the large south-east region, which includes islands - i am thinking of corsica - as well as savoy and the department of ain, where a number of areas are sparsely populated, and i see in my work on the ground that we must have a clear imperative, which is to reconcile europe with these territories. to do this, we must first identify the challenges facing these territories. i am thinking, for example, of services of general interest, including social services of general interest. how can we ensure that all our citizens, wherever they may be, have a minimum level of social protection? we must also develop the full potential of these regions to enable them to benefit from the single market and economic development. it is very easy to see that the community's policies in favour of islands and mountain regions are not being coordinated effectively. on the one hand, there is a complete lack of consideration for local or regional specificities, and on the other, there is a risk that these regions, having been totally forgotten, will be left to their own devices, without any help in combating depopulation, environmental threats or economic slowdown. this is precisely where, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, europe could bring added value. i am one of those who believe that europe must set itself concrete objectives in these areas. first, the various community policies which have an impact on these regions should be reviewed in order to include a horizontal clause which allows these specific features to be taken into account. and i also think that, beyond regional policy, we will have to review the common fisheries policy, with the protection of small-scale and local fisheries, agriculture and rural development, by better targeting small-scale production with an increase in direct aid, and then proceed in the same way for transport or energy. in conclusion, i would like to say that wanting is not being able. ambition is not just about nice words. in a few months' time we shall have an unavoidable meeting which we must seize, namely the negotiations on the next financial perspective.
mr president, as a resident of the massif central, the auvergne and the limousin, i would like to thank you, commissioner, for what you are doing in your communication. i would like to thank all the political groups who signed the resolution and who have also made it possible to set up the mountain-islands parliamentary intergroup. thank you to our partners euromontana and the european association of mountain officials. finally, the word 'mountain' in a european treaty, article 174! we must value our assets: agriculture, forestry, tourism, the industrial plant. i would like to emphasize agriculture, commissioner. we have quality, fragile and useful products. please discuss this with your colleague, mr cioloş. we need to have equal opportunities in all infrastructure, highways, high-speed rail, energy, education, health, digital. mr president, in the wars we have been equally responsible. we, the mountain people, are founded on the idea that we too have equal rights.
in writing. this resolution, which we will put to the vote in parliament tomorrow, makes the institutional actors aware of the difficulties facing these regions, and i welcome this. i would like to stress three important points in this text, which are at the heart of my concerns and which alone justify my signature. as a mountaineer from the pyrenees, i am sensitive to the problems faced in such territories. the mountains, because of their geographical and demographic constraints, require 'specific regional development programmes', and i hope that the post-2013 cohesion policy will take this into account. the defence and promotion of the egtc is at the heart of my political struggle. i hope that the success of the gect in my region, the puigcerdá hospital, will serve as an incentive for other projects of this kind in europe. finally, the abandonment of the 150 km criterion for islands is an important proposal, requested by many local actors. some islands are still not eligible for crossborder programmes because of their remoteness. they are suffering from an even more glaring isolation, and we must remedy that.
president of the european council. − mr president, the european council meeting of 16 september was convened primarily in order to focus on the union’s external relations. we also had a short scheduled discussion during lunch about the task force on economic governance, and an unscheduled discussion about the roma situation. allow me to address each of these in turn. first, regarding foreign affairs. when i took office eight months ago, while visiting our capitals i noticed a degree of frustration following the copenhagen summit. there was a perception that the european union was sidelined. our economic outlook was not good, whereas other economies in the world were growing rapidly. moreover, we started to realise how the economic strength of emerging countries is being transformed into real political power. the g-20, although created at the instigation of the european union, is also a sign of this trend, as is the debate about representation in the international monetary fund. this affects us: new players do not always share our interests and our world views. the lisbon treaty requires the european council to define the union’s strategic interests and give strategic direction to the work of other institutions. i am glad the heads of state and government all agreed to take this up and deepen their involvement in the union’s foreign policy. they want more ownership by the european council. they want to assume their responsibilities as members of this union institution. what did we discuss? well, it seemed urgent to me to address our strategic partnerships first. the issue was to link general objectives to concrete means, to make progress on the ground. we therefore briefly talked about how to make the best use of the lisbon treaty, with the new external action service. i would like to take this opportunity to thank parliament for its work in securing agreement on this. how can we make sure that what is done in brussels and in the capitals is going in the same direction? how can we coordinate better between the different actors in brussels? how can we bring together the different aspects of our relationship with partners – for instance during summits – in areas such as the economy, climate, values and security? the proof of the pudding is in the eating. how do we deal with our partners, one to one? we set priorities on a number of pressing matters. our key messages for summits with third countries have to be underpinned by some specific negotiations and trade-offs. i retain from the discussion in the european council the following other points: first, this is the beginning of a process. second, our key messages should be mandated by the european council, prepared and implemented by the foreign affairs council, the commission and the high representative, just as we are already preparing the g-20 meetings in the european council. my third point is that, with our partners, ‘reciprocity’ is a key word. we can also speak about ‘identifying mutual interests’. the general feeling is that this is not the case yet. we all insist on deliverables and leverage. we must turn objectives into concrete results. we have strategic partners but we need more strategy. we have developed ideas on how to position ourselves vis-à-vis china and where to fine-tune them further. thanks to the european council discussion, when the president of the commission and i meet the chinese prime minister in brussels two weeks from now, we will not speak just for ‘brussels’. we can also speak on behalf of the 27. we touched upon other upcoming meetings as well: the g-20 summit in seoul and the eu-us summit, both to take place in november, both crucial for global economic prospects. we will further prepare these meetings at the european council of 28 and 29 october. the french president, as incoming chair, outlined some of his ideas for the g-20 in 2011. he received our full support for creating a new dynamic for the g-8/g-20, underlining that they should become a process, not just an event. on the middle east: the success of the middle east peace negotiations is of strategic interest for the european union. we adopted a specific declaration on this issue in line with our common position of december 2009. we are involved in the process via the quartet. our neighbourhood, for instance the western balkans and their european perspective and the eastern partnership are of the highest importance. our reputation in the world starts with stability on our own continent. if we want to be a global player we have to be a regional player. from now on we will discuss foreign policy in the european council in this spirit. we can only be credible and strong if we are united. we showed our unity in the position of the 27 on additional sanctions on iran, which was not self-evident, and in the very important un resolution on the dialogue between serbia and kosovo, extremely important for the western balkans. besides discussing strategy and our overall approach, we also reached a conclusion on two specific issues: south korea and pakistan. we thereby showed immediately that the european union can deliver on issues of huge strategic interest. the free trade agreement with south korea is an issue of great external importance. it concerns a vital relationship with our eighth largest trading partner and, beyond that, with the whole of the asian economy. it has been close to agreement for three years and we are delivering it now. it will save european exporters eur 1.6 billion in costs annually, so this is good news for our export industries and therefore for jobs and growth in europe. on pakistan, we want to give maximum support to this country after it was so severely struck by devastating floods. more aid and more trade; we want pakistan to recover now and to develop economically. we will grant significantly-increased market access. catherine ashton helped us to reach agreement on this important declaration. second point, the task force. during the european council lunch we talked about the economy, the basis to gain political clout. in the first half of the year the european council had to involve itself in pressing economic issues. our economies are in better shape now, but the work is not over yet. during the lunch, i briefed my colleagues on the progress in the task force on economic governance. i did it yesterday here in the parliament. all heads of state and government want to continue the work and to keep the momentum. we have a large consensus on some of the most important issues, like the macro-economic surveillance framework. this will monitor and correct imbalances, risks of bubbles, and divergences in competitiveness. there is also agreement on strengthening national fiscal frameworks, on enshrining european budget rules in national legislation and on the principle of what has been called the european semester. we also made progress on sanctions, even if more work is needed. as i explained in detail to a meeting with seven of your committee chairs and the leaders of your groups yesterday, this amounts to a strengthening of the economic pillar of our economic and monetary union. although some have claimed that our work on this is slow, we have in fact covered an enormous amount of ground in a very short time. compared to negotiations establishing the stability and growth pact in 1997 and its revision in 2005, we are proceeding very quickly, despite the complexity of the issues. i will submit a draft of the global report to the task force on 27 september. we will finalise the discussions in the middle of october so that the european council can reach a conclusion at its meeting of 28 and 29 october. the commission intends to present legislative proposals by the end of september in line with its right of initiative – proposals which will of course come before your parliament for consideration and adoption under the legislative procedures. those proposals by the commission may positively contribute to keeping the momentum. this spring we won the battle of the euro. i am confident that next month we will draw the final right lessons from this crisis. third topic, the roma. during lunch we discussed a topic that interests you particularly. around the table there was consensus on five points, which was not interpreted as a formal council conclusion. one, a member state has the right and the duty to take action to uphold the rule of law within its territory. two, the commission has the right, and indeed the duty, to ensure compliance with union law by member states and has the right, and indeed the duty, to conduct investigations. three, we took note of the declaration that the commission president made on the eve of the european council. four, respect is the essential rule in relations between the member states and the commission. five, in a future meeting of the european council we will discuss the issue of integration of the roma. the prohibition of all forms of discrimination based on nationality or ethnicity is the founding principle of the european union. respect for human dignity is one of our core values. meetings of the european council should not be considered as summits but as regular – even routine – meetings of a union institution. indeed, allow me to emphasise at this time of renewed debate in your parliament about the community method, that the european council is an institution of our union, not another summit in the manner of the g-8 and the g-20. it is embedded in the institutional framework of the union but it brings to the union inputs from the highest political level in the member states and it gives the member states a sense of ownership and participation in the union and reinforces their commitment to its success. it comprises not only the heads of state or government but also the president of the european commission and the high representative for foreign affairs. it is often attended by the president of the european central bank. since the lisbon treaty it is being chaired by someone who is not simultaneously representing one of the member states but who must work both inside the european council and in close cooperation with the other institutions to find agreements in the general european interest. that is why i am investing time and energy in maintaining regular contacts with the presidents of other institutions, not least the president of the commission, the rotating council presidency, the central bank, the euro group, and of course yourself, mr president, along with leaders of the political groups and chairs of the parliamentary committees, well beyond what is provided for in the treaty. we do indeed work in the general european interest. the efforts made by all european institutions over the last months have started to produce results. our economies are recovering at an unexpected pace. confidence is coming back, slowly but surely. i thank the european parliament for its cooperation in restoring confidence through the legislation on financial surveillance. many member states are engaged in reform programmes. i pay tribute to those national governments who are taking courageous measures in very difficult political circumstances. in most of our member states the crisis is not over, in particular not on the employment front, although there is improvement. we are in better shape now than before the summer. a lot of work remains to be done. dear colleagues, we will do it. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, parliament has always been very clear that one of the main goals of the lisbon treaty is to make the eu stronger on the international stage, and the commission shares this goal to the full. maximising the eu’s voice is good for europe and, i believe, it is also good for the world. it allows us to promote our interests, to uphold our values and to make our contribution to worldwide efforts to address common challenges, from climate change to security and from a shortage of resources to pulling out of the economic crisis. we have opportunities and we have responsibilities, and the lisbon treaty has given us the tools to secure our goals in both. as we all know, this is work in progress; at home we need to learn how to use the lisbon structures to the best effect. with our partners, we need to show that the eu is a convincing interlocutor. this does not happen overnight, but last week’s european council was an important stepping stone towards that objective. in the nine months since the entry of force of the lisbon treaty we have made important progress. baroness ashton is now established as a voice for europe in the global arena and, with the support of this parliament, i believe we will soon have the european external action service up and running. the eu institutions have gradually taken over the functions of the rotating presidency for representation and coordination. the european council identified the next steps both on procedure and on substance. in particular, there was recognition that the eu had to do more to achieve a more consistent and coherent policy towards strategic partners. it may start looking specifically at china. it was very important that the european council will come back to the task of building a common approach on a regular basis. we all know some of the problems faced: that the lack-of-privatisation, christmas-tree approach suggests to our partners that we cannot really agree on what we really want and that the discordant messages between the eu and the member states undermine the message. we need to reach a position in which, when president van rompuy and president barroso speak for the eu at the summits, they do so with the authority which comes from a genuine consensus – a combined commitment of the eu and the member states – to a shared agenda. so the commission believes that it was an important first step to recognise the need to identify specific interests in our relations with each of our strategic partners and, now, to know how to deliver the same, consistent message to our partners worldwide. we need to start applying this spirit to the key summits this autumn, with china, india, russia and the united states, as well as for the g-20, the asia-europe meeting and the eu-africa summit. all these events need the democratic dimension brought by the interest of this parliament. trade was recognised as a key issue. it was a powerful symbol that, in the margins of the european council, agreement was finalised on the eu’s far-reaching free trade agreement with korea. this shows what is possible: an agreement which was not easy but which holds out the prospect of huge commercial benefits. it was also agreed that we should find ways, through trade, to help pakistan. we are already doing a lot in terms of humanitarian aid and development aid, which will be crucial for the reconstruction of this country. but it is also right to say that we should help the long-term prospects of the pakistan economy through trade measures, and the commission will be making specific proposals next month. the forthcoming french presidency of the g-20 and g-8 was also identified as a particularly good opportunity to ensure that european objectives were prominent. the commission is committed to using this as an important platform for the eu for the coming year. i also want to say a few words on two other subjects. on economic governance: the work of the task force chaired by president van rompuy and the preparation of detailed proposals by the commission mean that we have come a long way since may. the commission will put proposals on the table next week. now is the right time for us to launch the co-decision phase to start detailed examination of legislative proposals with a view to having the new system in place by the middle of next year. i know that parliament is fully conscious of the desirability to start quickly on your examination of these proposals. the package will have three objectives. first, to reinforce member states’ compliance with the stability and growth pact. second, to broaden economic surveillance to tackle imbalances; and third, to make economic surveillance work better through incentives for compliance and financial sanctions which are progressive, fairly applied and applied early enough to work effectively. these add up to a major reinforcement of the credibility of our economic governance of the euro area in particular. this agenda will be deepened still further when the task force makes its final report to the european council next month. finally, the issue of the roma. i simply want to make one point: the commission has the responsibility here as the guardian of the treaties. we are quite clear about our responsibilities. we will not compromise on respect for community law and we will defend our european values in full. we have been working to determine whether eu law on free movement and on anti-discrimination has been respected and are now in the phase of legal analysis. very soon this analysis will be looked at by the college itself. however, we must not forget what is a very important – i would say an essential – part of this discussion: the alleviation of the plight of the roma and their better integration. therefore, at the same time, we are looking at how to follow up on our april proposals to use eu funds to give real help to the integration of the roma. we have set up a task force to look at how we can take tangible steps to support inclusion. the task force meets for the first time this morning and will present its first findings by the end of this year. i know parliament will want to be kept informed about progress on a regular basis, and the commission will do this. to conclude, mr president, this european council discussed how we can reinforce our capacity to act externally and internally and to deliver better results for eu citizens. on all these subjects, the union’s institutions and instruments have been shown to be working as the treaty intends. the commission looks forward to cooperating with this parliament, deepening this work and assuring the effective delivery of our policies.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president buzek, mr president van rompuy, mr president šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, the european council discussed the union's relations with its global partners and economic governance. but public opinion has been most attentive to the debate on the roma. i would like to reiterate my group's position on this point. firstly, each member state must respect european law and the european commission, the guardian of the treaties, must ensure that this is done with the utmost impartiality. all the member states of the union are equal before the law. that is the strength of europe. in these circumstances, we respect the commission's decision to ask france for clarification on the measures it has taken and we have no doubt that france will respond to it with the greatest care. secondly, the epp group regrets the differences in language which this case has given rise to and hopes that, on such an emblematic subject, the values of responsibility and solidarity which the european union carries, serenity and mutual respect will continue to be the rule of conduct in relations between the member states and the european institutions. finally, my group once again calls for the definition and implementation of european, community-wide solutions for the integration of all minorities in europe, because the current crisis - as we all know - is indicative of a deep malaise in the relations between these minorities and the populations of their host countries. ladies and gentlemen, if every citizen is to enjoy his rights, then every citizen must also fulfil his duties. yes, the movement of people is a right, and this parliament has made enough of its vows to not give up any of them today. but yes, respecting the law, integrating into the host country, enrolling your children in school, ensuring that they attend school, respecting the property of others, are also duties from which no one, i say no one, can escape. that is the question and the position of the epp, a position which is based on principles and values and which goes beyond the partisan criticism to which - i must say - some have been led in recent days. i have two minutes left to address two crucial subjects discussed at the european council last friday: our place in the world and economic governance. on the first point, how can we accept that europe is one of the world's leading powers, perhaps the most respected in its approach to human rights and multilateralism, and that, despite this, it does not weigh more heavily on the world stage? we are the biggest donor - i repeat - to palestine, but we are not at the negotiating table. mr president, we must ensure that this changes. the council conclusions contain some interesting ideas, but the expected qualitative leap - as we all know - requires a real review of the way we do things. i am thinking of the political will to weigh in as a single force, not as the sum of 27 contradictory diplomacies. community method: mr president, we are counting on you. it is not a bad word, it is the method for the european union to be powerful and recognized in the world. i am thinking of our human resources, which need to be rationalised, and the foreign service is a first step in the right direction. and finally, i am thinking of our financial resources, particularly in the field of security and defence, which must be better spent, which calls for a greater effort to pool them. we're far, far away from that. i encourage the member states to implement, in the coming months, at least some of the objectives contained in these conclusions. finally, on economic governance, my group supports the first ideas put forward by the van rompuy task force, and in particular the rigorous application of the rules of the stability pact, accompanied by dissuasive sanctions. we must learn from the financial crisis and from the illusions we have created by dividing financial governance into economic and social governance. the two must be linked.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european council, the mainstream media will have highlighted only the sinister polemic that the french president has been waging against the commission in defence of a hunt organized in france against part of the european population, the roma. in the name of universal values, human rights, the french government - and others - must immediately stop this stigmatization and these odious expulsions. the same is true of the european united left group, which calls for the so-called 'return' directive of june 2008, dubbed the shame directive, to be repealed, as is the partnership agreement allowing the return of pakistani refugees. secondly, what concrete european initiatives do you intend to take, mr president, to finally lift the roma population out of poverty and misery? this anti-migrant policy is destroying the moral and political influence that europe could have in the world. i would add that anti-european populism is degrading politics, fostering xenophobia, nationalism and fundamentalism, and feeding what berthold brecht called 'the filthy beast'. and in the european council you have once again produced conclusions which are very unfavourable to the people and to the european idea itself. let me give you a few examples. at the very moment when ultraliberalism is plunging the world into crisis, you have decided - and i quote your text - to allow for 'ambitious free trade agreements'. you have decided to speed up the construction of the transatlantic market, that is to say, the alignment of our standards with those of the united states and greater integration into nato. mr president, the free trade, submission to the united states and militarism that you propose will shatter europe. you refer to the draft - and i quote - of 'clear strategic guidelines' in foreign policy. but what exactly is it? in the view of the european united left, should not a good foreign policy be to commit ourselves to action against poverty, hunger, debt cancellation, the promotion of food sovereignty, disarmament and peace? a bold action to make the cancun climate summit a success? why, when your text says that we are the first trading area, are we not starting the process of taxing financial transactions? what do you intend to do other than this weak text to make the dialogue between israel and palestine a success? i notice that you do not mention the 1967 borders, nor east jerusalem as the capital, and that you are incredibly sympathetic to israeli settlement. finally, you have decided to enforce the iron heel of austerity through what you call the european semester, surveillance, with the threat of sanctions against the states. why hide the fact that the debt of the states has increased not because of an excess of social spending but because of the permanent support of the money forces? why are there no major industrial, service or agricultural projects, on new and cooperative bases, which are favourable to employment? i would like to know on what legal basis you intend to apply such sanctions, which would further aggravate the situation of the states and the peoples. we are in the european year against poverty. what initiatives and actions have been in harmony with this proclamation?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the roma issue, i think it might be useful at this stage of our debate to recall the motto of the european union: unity in diversity. this motto must also apply to the roma, unity in diversity. let us respect the diversity of the roma and then implement the strategy we have just adopted. in strategy 2020, we have identified the fight against social exclusion and poverty as one of our key objectives. why do we need to go looking for new strategies? let us put into practice the one we have just defined. let us give it the financial means to succeed and we will have taken a great step forward in the question of roma integration. on economic governance, mr president, everyone is talking about a great success that would be the definition of a european semester. i'll take that. but until now i have not understood quite what the role of the european parliament would be in this european semester. if we simply want to hold a debate here, as we very often do, i think we will not have achieved our objective. and then, let me ask you a question! when you came to meet the ministers of employment and social affairs, you heard what they had to say. economic governance which today turns its back on employment would not be able to meet the challenges we face. and we are counting on you for balanced economic governance, that is to say with a priority employment objective.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating myself on the fact that the positions on the roma issue are balanced, reasonable and forward-looking in terms of solving the problems of poverty of these populations. i would like to say to you, mr president, that i have appreciated the way you have presented the achievements of the last eight months. you did it with strength and precision. we do not say enough about what europe is doing, nor do we say enough about the role of parliament. you mentioned collaboration earlier, particularly in terms of supervision. it is precisely because parliament wanted agencies with genuine european competence that this supervision could be put in place, since, as you know, the ecofin council's position of december 2009 was much more reserved on this issue. we must continue, at a time when the g20 is about to have a european presidency, through france. we must speak more and louder with one voice. we must also have concrete proposals for the future. we are counting on you, mr president.
mr president, mr van rompuy, i am grateful to you for pointing out that human dignity is a core value of the european union. but in the face of the political storm of the past week, in the face of the xenophobic accents of the french government, the promises of a future discussion do not live up to our expectations. mr van rompuy, do not miss this opportunity to be the embodiment of european diplomacy! we expect an unconditional condemnation of a state which has not respected european legislation. we are waiting for concrete proposals, for the implementation of the strategies already decided, for the funds, for the evaluation of these funds and for the use of these funds. in conclusion, i would like to refer to the question of rights and duties raised by mr daul, to tell him that to send children to school, there must also be school buses, and that means loud and clumsy specimens. you have understood that on the roma issue we do not need just speeches, but above all we need a clear political will, without ambiguity.
madam president, mr president, mr commissioner, of course i join in all the congratulations that have been given and i would like to highlight the work and the excellent cooperation within this parliament and also to point out that, without the will of this parliament, this supervision would certainly not have had the european character it has today. as regards the future, mr president of ecofin, i would like to see an agreement reached before the end of this period, and perhaps even before the end of this month, on one of the subjects of our concern, in which you have invested a great deal of time, and not in vain, i assure you. we shall find, in the coming days, thanks to the goodwill of the belgian presidency, a satisfactory solution on hedge funds and private equity. i believe that we must, to use the commissioner's usual image, put the building blocks in place within the framework that has just been drawn up so that financial regulation is intelligent and covers all products. it is not a matter of regulating for the sake of regulating. the aim is to ensure that regulation is effective and that the risks inherent in the financial system are reduced as far as possible. in closing, i would like to greet david wright, who is leaving us and we regret it. we hope that after all the work he has done to help our parliament achieve results, we will soon find him on european paths again.
mr commissioner, mr minister, a lot has been said. the deal is done, it's satisfactory. thank you, everybody. i wanted to learn a lesson from this exercise for the future. co-decision cannot be as ecofin did last december to reach an agreement unanimously and then go to parliament and say: 'you know, it is a pity, we have agreed and, moreover, you have to move very quickly, because the markets are waiting.' the unblocking has come - and we thank you for it, mr minister - when the belgian presidency opted for a little more engagement and dialogue. i just wanted to warn you that, as far as economic governance is concerned, we intend to work as we do with supervision, in teams. i would therefore ask you, mr reynders, if possible, to send a little message, like mr barnier to the commission, to ecofin, to say that we really want to be involved from the beginning, fully, and play our part in the codecision. don't book us a lockdown at the council. do not lock us in the task force, and perhaps even try to explain to mr van rompuy that we would be very happy to see him in the econ committee, as we have asked him to do.
mr president, as regards the vote on mrs klass' report, i wanted to say that in our alde voting sheet an error was made on page 10 - which corresponds to page 5 of the klass report, but on page 10 of the voting sheet. on 342d, we must vote in favour and not against, it is part of the overall compromise agreement. on 342d, i vote for, not against.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, the two alternative resolutions have been rejected. there's only one text left. it's my report, which is a compromise... listen to me, mr daniel cohn-bendit, at least let me say that this is a compromise between the political groups of the epp, alde, ecr and efd. i've taken into account all the sensitivities that go with intellectual property. i now consider it to be the responsibility of our parliament to take a decision. i do not see why we should leave the commission free to do so. i therefore call on all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your opinion at least on this question, which will open a debate and... after the vote on paragraph 13: report. - mr president, i would like to extend my hand to our liberal colleagues again and accept that paragraph 13 is rejected by all the political groups supporting the report.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to this text which we have voted on - and i congratulate linda mcavan on the quality of her work - on a neglect which affects the guinea pig populations. there is one point that has been overlooked and which, because of the agreement reached at first reading, could not be the subject of an oral amendment: it concerns the populations used as guinea pigs for the clinical trials, conducted before authorization, of a medicinal product or a vaccine, in order to verify its safety or its balance of benefits/risks. these populations may be composed of men, women, children or elderly persons; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of medicinal products is not compromised. in fact, it should be noted that these people who participate in clinical trials are kept in the dark about the substance ingested or injected, and that the effects are likely to occur only ten, twenty or thirty years later. these guinea pig populations are therefore the forgotten ones of pharmacovigilance and it is important to remember this, to mention this.
in writing. i voted in favour of the böge report to condemn the intolerable financial situation in which we find ourselves. while the treaty of lisbon gives new prerogatives to the european union, and large-scale european projects are being desired and announced by the member states, the commission and the council refuse to revise the expenditure ceilings, which is very paradoxical and reveals their narrow vision of the european project. the crisis requires more europe: to do this, the european budget must be strengthened by replacing the current financial framework, which is constrained and inadequate. it is time to respect our treaties, which stipulate that the union must give itself the means to achieve its objectives. with a very large majority of the members of the european parliament, we support the need for own resources such as eurobonds. member states must recognise that the added value of european policies is an essential means of containing national expenditure.
in writing. this text calls for new resources to implement the new policies of the european union. these are the direct result of the lisbon treaty, whose liberal blindness and anti-democratic character are now beyond dispute. i am voting against this text.
in writing. last july, i voted against the financial stability mechanism envisaged by the council. the new agreement makes the granting of new european loans conditional on the implementation of the economic and financial reforms imposed by the imf, the dramatic consequences of which can be seen in greece. today we are being asked to vote for the creation of a financial structure which guarantees and therefore guarantees the establishment of this harmful mechanism. i am naturally voting against the establishment of such a structure.
in writing. if it is a question of facilitating the recovery of rights for productive enterprises, i can accept that. if it is a question of validating the expansion of vat in place of income tax, i will disapprove. in liberal europe, distrust is the rule. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is unacceptable to want to make ridiculous savings on patient safety and product quality. the initial proposals of the european commission were to weaken the current system by giving companies a central role in collecting, alerting, analysing and reporting on the adverse effects of their medicines. but the foundation of efficacy and safety for patients is the independence of pharmacovigilance networks and committees. the compromise with the council includes improvements in transparency and, above all, prevents the placing on the market of medicines that have not been sufficiently tested, as originally proposed by the european commission.
in writing. today in the european union too many patients are still suffering from the side effects of medicines. that is why i voted for the adoption of this report which seeks to address this problem. the aim of the text is to set up national and european websites on which patients can report adverse reactions to medicines and thus create a database. in the interests of transparency, a black symbol will be placed on the package insert of all medicines requiring additional checks. in sum, this text is a remarkable step forward in providing the conditions for better protection of patients, by providing them with practical information on the use of medicines and their adverse effects.
in writing. despite mandatory extensive clinical trials and marketing authorisation (maa), medicines have serious side effects that often require hospitalization, but also cause a very high number of deaths in the eu. i welcome the adoption of the pharmacovigilance legislation by the european parliament which strengthens the provisions on european legislation on medicinal products for human use. patients will now be able to report adverse drug reactions directly to the doctor. at the same time, the creation of a european internet portal will improve information on medicines: i note with satisfaction the provisions taken on the protection of personal data. these measures will improve the safety and quality of medicines and patients. however, there is still room for improvement in the funding of pharmacovigilance, which today remains dependent on laboratory fees (and thus on their goodwill), and for ensuring the independence of the risk assessment committee from the european medicines agency, which issues a large number of marketing authorisations for medicines in the eu. the ball is now in the commission's court, particularly as regards the improvement of the labelling of medicinal products.
in writing. i abstained on the mcavan report on pharmacovigilance because the basis for efficacy and safety for patients using medicines must be the independence of pharmacovigilance committees. this necessarily requires public funding, which is no longer guaranteed by this text, since these activities will now be financed mainly by laboratory fees, a system that is controversial and contested. even if the compromise reached with the council brings improvements in the field of drug testing and transparency of procedures, i could not support this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. with this legislation, which was approved at first reading by the european parliament, biocides used to control pests and germs are on their way to becoming safer and more environmentally friendly. the general aim of the draft regulation is to update community rules governing products ranging from insect repellents to water treatment chemicals (agricultural pesticides are covered by separate legislation). for the first time, materials treated with biocides will also be regulated. we have also adopted a ban on the most toxic substances, in particular those which are carcinogenic, harmful to fertility or interfere with genes or hormones, while strengthening the requirement to gradually replace other dangerous substances with less harmful alternatives. the future centralised authorisation system for biocidal products at eu level, which will be implemented gradually, will also ensure greater uniformity across the 27 member states, and thus greater safety.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation establishing a european insurance and occupational pensions authority is part of the financial supervision package. the latter creates three european authorities to supervise specific sectors of financial activity: banks, insurance and financial markets. i fully supported this report and the financial supervision package as a whole because i believe it represents a major and above all necessary step forward. we have learned the lessons of the crisis and its dramatic effects on the economy and on employment, caused by the failures of the present financial system. with this new supervisory architecture, the objective is to clean up the financial system and ensure its stability.
in writing. insurance and occupational pension schemes should be guaranteed by the member states. the europe of reducing public revenue and expenditure is obviously not going in this direction. the green paper on pensions which the commission released on 7 july is a reminder of this. in this context, it is unthinkable that a european supervisory authority could supervise such a sector. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i am pleased to see the commitments made by my political family during the financial crisis widely adopted by the european parliament. we had to revise the european financial surveillance system. the lack of coordination between national supervisory bodies ultimately increased the risk of failure of financial institutions. by establishing three new european authorities responsible for supervising the functioning of banks, financial markets and insurance and pension institutions, we have put in place a complete architecture for financial supervision. the banks will thus be supervised in an equal and coordinated manner by the european banking authority. the commission will have the final say in any dispute with national bank supervisors. ensuring the solvency of financial institutions, allowing greater transparency of financial markets and products, also means ensuring better protection for investors, businesses, savers and consumers. this new tool will not be the preserve of a few financial experts but will be of use to everyone.
in writing. the creation of a european financial supervisor was proposed in september 2009 by the european commission, building on the work of the group chaired by jacques de larosière. from 1 january 2011, the union will therefore have a control tower to identify financial risks and tools to act if necessary. this role will be entrusted to three new supervisory authorities for banking, financial markets and insurance and to a european systemic risk board. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs a body specifically responsible for the macroprudential supervision of its financial system, which would be able to detect risks to financial stability and, where appropriate, to issue warnings and make recommendations to respond to such risks. preserving public service missions, encouraging innovation, improving financing for smes: these are the three objectives to ultimately create sustainable and equitable growth.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation establishing a european insurance and occupational pensions authority is part of the financial supervision package. the latter creates three european authorities to supervise specific sectors of financial activity: banks, insurance and financial markets. i fully supported this report and the financial supervision package as a whole because i believe it represents a major and above all necessary step forward. we have learned the lessons of the crisis and its dramatic effects on the economy and on employment, caused by the failures of the present financial system. with this new supervisory architecture, the objective is to clean up the financial system and ensure its stability.
in writing. the european parliament here clearly takes a position in favour of a deeper integration of financial supervision at european level. i welcome this because i believe that europe had to act in this area in order to show the european citizens that we are making strong and concrete commitments to the reorganization of the banking sector. i therefore supported the report and the compromise reached with the council because the objective is that these authorities should be operational by 1 january 2011. i hope that practice will now enable these authorities to exercise their powers to the full.
in writing. the powers conferred on the three european supervisory authorities (esas) are not limited to what their title suggests. they should be addressed to the council of the member states. they should not be able to put in place any measure without the prior agreement of the council except to change their roadmap which obliges them to protect investors, savers and the proper functioning of the internal market while cooperating with international institutions. i am voting against this text. the competences of the esas and their objectives need to be reviewed.
in writing. to get out of the financial crisis that has shaken the world, destabilized our economy, worsened unemployment and accelerated our debt, we need regulation and supervision. that is why it was important to support and vote on the six reports proposing an ambitious and far-reaching reform of economic governance. this agreement is a first step towards the independent and strong authorities we need in the interests of europeans. with this vote we have taken our responsibilities, because as of 1 january 2011 three market, banking and insurance supervisory authorities will be created, as well as a european systemic risk board chaired by the president of the european central bank.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation establishing a european banking authority is part of the financial supervision package. the latter creates three european authorities to supervise specific sectors of financial activity: banks, insurance and financial markets. as with the skinner and giegold reports on the other two supervisory authorities, i fully supported this report and the financial supervision package as a whole as i believe it represents a major, and above all a necessary, step forward (see explanation of vote on the skinner report).
in writing. i am pleased to see the commitments made by my political family during the financial crisis widely adopted by the european parliament. we had to revise the european financial surveillance system. the lack of coordination between national supervisory bodies ultimately increased the risk of failure of financial institutions. by establishing three new european authorities responsible for supervising the functioning of banks, financial markets and insurance and pension institutions, we have put in place a complete architecture for financial supervision. the banks will thus be supervised in an equal and coordinated manner by the european banking authority. the commission will have the final say in any dispute with national bank supervisors. ensuring the solvency of financial institutions, allowing greater transparency of financial markets and products, also means ensuring better protection for investors, businesses, savers and consumers. this new tool will not be the preserve of a few financial experts but will be of use to everyone.
in writing. here again, i approve of the compromise reached with the council on the so-called 'financial supervision' package (see my explanations on the skinner, goulard, sanchez presedo, garcia margallo y marfil and giegold reports) and on this issue of the ecb's tasks in particular. the european central bank has demonstrated its ability to manage the financial crisis in an efficient and reasonable manner. it must play a central role in the european systemic risk board because its credibility and effectiveness are at stake.
in writing. while it is consistent to want to create a systemic risk monitoring body, it is much less consistent to put it under the supervision of the european central bank. such an organization should, for the time being, be interstate. that is not the case at all in this proposal. a body headed by the president of an ecb which blindly applies its euro-liberal doctrine to the benefit of private operators will never propose anything against the interests of the latter. i am voting against this report, which endorses the ecb's hold on the european systemic risk board.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation establishing a european financial markets authority is part of the financial supervision package. the latter creates three european authorities to supervise specific sectors of financial activity: banks, insurance and financial markets. as with the skinner and garcia margallo y marfil reports on the other two supervisory authorities, i fully supported this report and the financial supervision package as a whole, as i believe it represents a major and above all necessary step forward (see explanation of vote on the skinner report).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report despite the fact that progress has not lived up to the promises made in 2009 at the g20 summits, where european leaders committed to work towards effective and rigorous regulation of financial products and players. however, this legislative package does not replace the absence of economic governance. without fiscal harmonization, without a common industrial policy, without strong proposals for growth and employment, we will not be able to resist the attacks of the markets, nor to ensure that the wealth produced in europe is equitably distributed among all citizens.
in writing. i voted for the giegold report on the european financial markets authority because it is very urgent that the european union should have the tools to monitor financial markets in order to avoid new financial and economic crises. the creation of this authority, and all those established in the rest of the supervisory package, make it possible to move from the simple coordination of national authorities, with sometimes very divergent interests, to genuine european authorities. the activities of credit rating agencies, which had a major role in triggering the financial crisis, will now be subject to direct european supervision. this is undeniable progress, although there is still a long way to go.
in writing. the final vote on the 'financial package' marked the end of negotiations with parliament on a minimum of european financial regulation. i voted against this financial package because the proposed responses are not up to the current crisis and would be even less able to prevent new ones. it is not enough to create new bodies to regulate the financial sector, especially when these bodies have serious shortcomings. the composition of the general council of the european systemic risk board (esrb) speaks for itself, with only representatives of the ecb, the commission and the national central banks. the measures adopted by the european parliament are at best a first step towards the establishment of a real system of supervision of financial institutions. it is time to face up to reality and to see the very real social damage of so-called economic and financial realism. the responses are not up to the crisis, they are just a "cautery on a wooden leg".
in writing. the report highlights the negative impact of counterfeiting and infringements of intellectual property rights (ipr) online, across all creative sectors, on employment and the european economy as a whole. i am convinced that in order to strengthen the protection of intellectual property, it is necessary to improve an attractive legal offer online. i am also a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and i believe that it is essential to make consumers aware of the risks posed by counterfeit products, both for health and safety. that is why i voted in favour of this report and i still believe that efforts must be made in campaigns to raise awareness, particularly among young people, of the fight against counterfeiting.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by marielle gallo on the application of intellectual property rights in the internal market. this is an own-initiative report, i.e. it is not a legislative report, and i think that the approach is balanced. the challenge for me is this: we need to protect intellectual property rights because they are the guarantee of living and thriving creativity and innovation, but we also need to develop legal services that make creative content online easy and accessible to the greatest number. i now expect the european commission to propose models combining these two imperatives, i.e. protecting copyright while guaranteeing wide access to creative content. like the rapporteur, i believe that studies should be carried out to assess the developments and possible improvements in the digital market in europe, through consultation of the stakeholders and the constant involvement of the european parliament.
in writing. i voted against this report because by equating file sharing for non-commercial purposes with counterfeiting and theft, marielle gallo and the european right are pushing for the criminalisation of millions of internet users who are also consumers of music and films. in doing so, they pit the artists against their own audience without giving them a penny more. contrary to what they want us to believe, the european right does not defend artists but industries and their obsolete model. this report is nothing but the continuation of the policy of the french government which is more concerned with the interests of the majors of the record and the world of show business than with the fundamental freedoms of citizens. this attitude is incapable of meeting the challenges of creation in the digital age.
in writing. in france, as in europe, creativity, research and innovation are suffering. it is a question of restoring readability and confidence to all the actors. to this end, the issue of intellectual property rights is legitimate. we therefore voted to give our voice to the fight against counterfeiting (especially medicines), to raising awareness among young people of the issues of intellectual property and to support smes. however, in the end we voted against the gallo report, in order to reaffirm the difference between file sharing between internet users for private purposes and counterfeiting by structured networks for profit. we regret that the report adopted does not reflect our strongly held positions in parliament and in france (the telecom package and the hadopi law), calling for a judicial decision before any sanctions are imposed on internet users. on this last, extremely sensitive point, the actors must look for proposals which are non-partisan, without a technological a priori, and, in the end, capable of guaranteeing fundamental freedoms, clarifying respect for property rights and multiplying creation.
in writing. of course intellectual property rights must be respected. of course, violations of these rights must be punished, because they harm the interests of our creators, our economies and our companies. but we could not approve mrs gallo's report because, under the few remarks on counterfeiting of tangible goods, which the commission is fighting lightly, the real target is downloading from the internet, which unfortunately affects millions of people. mrs gallo was elected by the party which introduced the hadopi law in france. nothing in the report actually says that the measures it is calling for will include the guarantee of judicial proceedings and remedies against possible infringements. nor is there any guarantee of the right to private copying. we cannot criminalize, monitor and blame millions of european internet users because the cultural industry is struggling to adapt to new technologies and to offer citizens a commercial offer worthy of the name.
in writing. the own-initiative report on the application of intellectual property rights in the internal market was adopted by 328 votes to 245 with 81 abstentions: mrs gallo (epp) did indeed obtain a majority but the debate was confused; it has failed to transcend the divisions, nor has it paved the way for legislation. i therefore voted against: this text does not strike the right balance between respect for fundamental freedoms and the protection of intellectual property rights; it's out of step with the technological reality. it is true that the alternative resolutions tabled by the adle and the s&d were not entirely satisfactory either, but they had the merit of eliminating false and inappropriate solutions. however, in a constructive spirit, i supported certain measures to combat counterfeiting (particularly in the pharmaceutical sector), to raise awareness among young people of the problems of intellectual property and to support small and medium-sized enterprises. it is time for non-partisan and technologically unprejudiced substantive work to finally reconcile fundamental freedoms, creativity and respect for the intellectual property rights of authors and artists.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendments on the fight against counterfeiting, raising awareness among young people of intellectual property issues and supporting innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises, but i voted against the own-initiative report on the application of intellectual property rights in the internal market. the report combined the issues of file sharing between internet users for private purposes with counterfeiting on the part of networks structured for profit. i also deeply regret that this report makes no reference to the need for a judicial decision before any sanction is imposed on internet users. in voting against this report, i wanted to express my disagreement with a text which has failed to strike a balance between the protection of fundamental freedoms and the respect of intellectual property rights.
in writing. i voted against the gallo report, which in my view does indeed favour a real 'pirate hunt', which unfortunately is not unlike the french-french debate on the so-called hadopi law. the text voted in strasbourg is purely repressive in nature and creates a dangerous confusion by failing to distinguish between the counterfeiting of tangible goods - particularly medicines - and the sharing of digital files for non-commercial purposes. the millions of peer-to-peer internet users who also consume music and movies seem to be becoming potential criminals. with my socialist colleagues we had advocated an alternative position which, on the contrary, supports an approach adapted to the present realities, and in doing so protects the fundamental freedoms of consumers. and our strategy would not have "sniffed" copyright at all, because we were proposing the creation of new business models that would compensate authors for the use of their works online. we french and european socialists must be particularly vigilant to ensure that fundamental freedoms are not further restricted.
in writing. this text validates the intellectual property rights invented by the french revolution of 1789. but it does open up rights to private justice delivered to operators, a practice of the old regime. i am voting against, in line with my opposition to the hadopi act in france.
in writing. beyond the substance, i supported this report for its balanced aspect, and this despite the pressure from some internet actors relayed by the socialists, because the demagogy must one day stop. although this report is not legally binding, it lays the foundations for a european reflection on intellectual property in the digital age and emphasises various aspects which i would like to reiterate. piracy and file sharing, on a scale of millions of users, are having a negative impact on the cultural economy, the creative industries and employment. the problem remains, although the figures available to us are subject to debate. the report therefore asks the european commission to provide us with reliable figures. some argue that there is a market failure between the prices of cultural works in the legal circuit and their availability - "free" - on the internet. however, responsibility is necessary. illegal downloading cannot become legal through a "right-fundamentalist" pass-through of protecting individual freedoms. the cultural industries must also make an effort, offering really attractive prices, adapted to the new demand created by the digital era and respecting the fair remuneration of authors.
in writing. this resolution takes note of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the raising of the principle of territorial cohesion to one of the key objectives of the european union and the need to strengthen assistance to regions handicapped by their geographical situation (mountainous regions, islands and sparsely populated areas). the main provision of this resolution calls for the establishment of a specific, flexible and integrated european policy framework to deal with the situation of mountainous, island and sparsely populated regions on the basis of their common characteristics. as a member of the parliamentary committee responsible for european cohesion policy, i believe that more needs to be done for these regions and that specific measures should be introduced to help them.
in writing. due to their characteristics, mountain areas face specific challenges such as, in particular, accelerated population ageing, traffic difficulties, barriers to energy supply and lack of regional integration. as the representative of the south-west constituency of france in the european parliament, and particularly sensitive to the problems facing the pyrenees, i voted in favour of the resolution on the european strategy for the economic and social development of mountainous, island and sparsely populated regions. the text calls in particular for the establishment of a specific european policy framework to deal with the problems facing these territories, in order to enable them to overcome the permanent handicaps and adapt their development model by exploiting all their strengths. it also called for better coordination of the four structural funds, the cohesion fund and other european financial instruments, in order to maximise the effectiveness of their action and thus promote the economic development of these territories. i support those goals.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, once again we are dealing in this house with the difficult question of the situation in the democratic republic of congo, which seems to be deteriorating. last june we voted a resolution condemning the murder of mr floribert chebeya and expressing concern at the disappearance of mr bazana edadi. since then, another human rights defender, mr salvator muhindo vunoka, has been murdered. you can add it to your list, minister. it took the mass rape of several hundred people this summer for the un to decide to react. it must be said that monusco, which is in congo to protect civilians, humanitarian personnel and human rights defenders, and to help fight impunity, was only a few kilometres away from the scene of the rapes and did not react. mr ban ki-moon himself was outraged by the passivity of the monusco troops. the government of the democratic republic of congo has finally been brought to justice by un officials. a new report was due to be published in early october on the violence committed, but only on those committed between 1996 and 2003. what a waste of time. and how many more victims will have to be killed, raped, tortured? how many more children will have to be forcibly recruited before the international community takes stock of the situation and acts accordingly? i would like to ask: what is europe doing? huge sums have been invested in the congo. eusec and eupol missions are on the ground. apart from humanitarian aid, one of the eu's main objectives is, on paper, to train security forces and help with security reform in the country. what are the results of these policies? the democratic republic of congo is a large country, the third largest country in africa by population. it is a country with enormous potential for wealth, yet 80 per cent of its population lives below the poverty line. worse, it is a country that keeps getting poorer because corruption is flourishing there. so i have only one thing to ask you: how long are we going to let this go unpunished? as you said, minister, we know that the security forces are also involved in this violence. don't you think it's time we had another speech? i suppose that things are not very simple in the council of ministers, where some of the major european states, at least their political representatives, whose commitment to human rights we all know, are not very open to real intervention, since they know how to receive mr kabila with great pomp. so rely on the european parliament to take the necessary measures and stop allowing the economic interests of a few to prevail over the civilian populations who can no longer cope!
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi), two of the thirteen existing crossborder cooperation programmes are dedicated to the mediterranean basin. the first is the cooperation programme for the mediterranean basin. with the new generations of european funds 2007-2013, the european union has decided to develop cooperation actions between the two shores of the mediterranean. to this end, the european union has set up the emrp mediterranean basin programme. what are the specific territories covered by this programme? what projects can be co-financed, given that the cooperation programme finances 80% of the total cost of cooperation programmes involving partner programmes representing at least three eligible countries in very different fields? the second strand of the enpi ctf programme for italy and tunisia has a total allocation for 2007-2013 of eur 25,191 million. the eligible regions are italy and tunisia. the managing authority is the region of sicily, with palermo. the objective of the ftc programme for italy and tunisia is to encourage the economic, institutional and cultural integration of the tunisian and sicilian regions through a joint sustainable development process in the context of crossborder cooperation. there are three priorities on the agenda. the first is regional development and regional integration. the second is the promotion of sustainable development, with the management of agricultural and fisheries resources, the protection and enhancement of the natural and cultural heritage and the promotion of the development of renewable energy sources. my question is: what controls are there on the trade in coral, which is an endangered and trafficked fishery resource? the third priority is cultural and scientific cooperation and support for networks, with the strengthening of cooperation at associative level, training and exchanges between young people and students. my question is this: how, beyond the funding objective, is the implementation of this human exchange programme ensured, given the obstacles to the implementation by european countries of the return directive and the management of schengen visas?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the record of the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy is not surprising. this is a fairly positive assessment of the concerns of those who govern europe today. it's all right! economic exchanges are growing, so the essentials are preserved. the report does indeed reveal some regrets in the area of social affairs and democracy and human rights, but only to say that the shortcomings in this area are a brake on economic development and - i quote the report of the commission itself - that it is accepted that social cohesion is conducive to a better business climate. no doubt, even here, few people are shocked by this way of approaching problems. i think that this is very revealing of the european construction which the european union is trying to impose on its close neighbours, this europe of double standards in which our citizens find it increasingly difficult to identify with each other and which they increasingly abandon at each election, if they do not take refuge in extreme votes. the report on the neighbourhood and partnership policy is mixed, to say the least, when it comes to the question of how these policies have improved the lives of the people concerned. the glass is not half full or half empty, commissioner. the scale is tilted the wrong way. what real progress has been made in the field of democracy and human rights? go and tell those who live in the territories and who are fighting for democracy in those countries, even at the risk of their lives. what progress has been made in tunisia in this area? how can we envisage a stronger partnership with countries which openly trample on democracy and human rights? the same is true of israel. why does the european union not take advantage of this privileged relationship, this partnership, to exert its full weight to get israel to respect its international commitments and to end its occupation of the palestinian territories? it's been going on for 45 years. the european union must make its voice heard. why does it not do the same with morocco to solve the question of western sahara? and how dare the commission consider a stronger partnership with libya? i think i know the answer to that. it is to enable them to play their role as guardians of europe. and it doesn't matter what happens to the men and women who are sent back there. it is almost october 10, commissioner. 10 october is the european day against the death penalty. i will use a symbolic word here: when will the european union stop sending men, women and even children back to these countries, especially those which still use the death penalty? when will it demand that these countries at least ratify the 1951 refugee convention? when will it demand a moratorium on the death penalty from these countries? economic relations with these countries are important, but they are as important to them as they are to us. they must serve the people, not corrupt governments. what image is europe given when europe's economic and security interests are continually given priority over the concept of democracy and human rights? if the european union does not change its policy in this area, it is not surprising that the universalism of human rights is increasingly being seen as a form of neo-colonialism, as the desire to impose a so-called western model. this is the different image of europe we need. the neighbourhood policy can be a tool for this. that is not the case, and i deeply regret it.
in writing. crossborder cooperation is essential for the countries in our neighbourhood. how can we have a prosperous and sustainable economy if the borders are closed? it allows for better border security and intelligent management of migration flows. however, some of our neighbouring regions, such as the maghreb, do not know how to work together. in most cases where cross-border cooperation between our neighbours has stalled, there is a frozen conflict with a heavy historical background. it is of course essential to give our neighbours the means to cooperate. but for the budgets to be really useful, the european union, that is to say you, mr füle, and especially mrs ashton, must be present on the political scene. it must be able to exert influence, to be listened to and respected. otherwise the union for the mediterranean is doomed to failure. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is also a multi-faceted instrument, which is complex and sometimes opaque. parliament has almost no right of access to national strategy papers and indicative programmes! we need to be consulted more often and better informed, and the procedure must be simplified.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we all know the state of democracy and human rights in china. we have just been talking about the european neighbourhood policy. in both cases, one thing is common: economic realism prevails. because china is first and foremost a big market for those who govern europe. so we must not upset the chinese authorities because they may close their borders to us. and no matter how much political repression is the same, i have not forgotten the victims of tiananmen square. i am thinking of all those who languish in prisons, in labour camps and even die fighting for democracy and human rights. so, yes, the laogai system is a terrible symbol of what's happening in china. you have again told us that the commission is committed to human rights. so, commissioner, do not hide behind technical considerations! you can't just talk to the chinese government anymore! you know how the chinese government feels about what you say. he feels that discussions on this subject are a must. your preliminary remarks do not answer my colleagues' questions. you have not said anything concrete, and you do not hide behind the fact that there are labour camps in other countries! china is modernizing, you say. i'd say it depends on who it's for. i'm not a pro-american, that's for sure. but it seems to me that in this case, at least doing what the united states is doing would be the minimum. in the field of security and the so-called fight against terrorism, we know how to cooperate with the united states, even in defiance of the rights of european citizens. why is the european union not able to do the same when it comes to upholding human rights? commissioner, when will the european union ban the export of products from the laogai camps?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the eighth world day against the death penalty, i would like to express my deepest sympathy for all those who have not been spared: for the 200,000 innocent unborn children who disappear every year in france; for natacha mougel, the 29-year-old woman who was murdered a few weeks ago by a repeat offender; for the four-year-old child who was murdered a few days ago near my home in meyzieu; for the old man stabbed in january in roquebrune by a man who had already been prosecuted for stabbing; for the 600 or 700 innocent people murdered in france each year and for the thousands of others who have been killed in europe and the world; for marie-christine hodgelly, anne cremar, anne cremar, anne cremar, and so many others who have been victims of terrorism, including the first victims of the dutch road rage, and who were all, after a single day, allowed to live, and to be free from the horrors of the crime of murder, and the crime of which, after the first day, the schubert act of terrorism, had only one victim. i think of them because we do not celebrate a world day for victims, but we celebrate a day for the tormentors, who often deserve to die. in a state governed by law, and only in a state governed by law, the death penalty is not a state crime. it provides a permanent protection for society and the population against criminals, for whom it is also, sometimes, the only way of redemption.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, there is a before and an after in the gulf of mexico. europe is obviously not immune to a major industrial accident, as is sadly illustrated by what is happening today in hungary itself. our common task is precisely to anticipate and not wait for a disaster to occur before we have the means to deal with it. what does that mean? first, appropriate legislation to prevent such events. it doesn't exist to this day. we need sound preliminary studies and i am pleased to hear that seveso ii is being considered for use on offshore platforms. we need robust impact studies and also a system of liability that is dissuasive, so that the economic interest of operators is to make safety extremely important. finally, technical means must be available to deal with any eventuality in a matter of days or even hours. it's not just about being able to react on paper, it's about being able to react in reality. i cannot imagine what would happen in a sea as closed as the mediterranean if for several weeks, or even months, we were to see a situation similar to that in the gulf of mexico. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the environmental liability directive, i would remind you, does not cover economic damage. that is why i think it is essential, as the united states has done without hesitation, to put in place a moratorium on new installations so that the conditions just mentioned can be met. it is not a question of stopping the mining that is going on, but of suspending any new permits that may be issued so that all public and private actors have the same interest: to arrive as quickly as possible at legislation and technical means that will protect us from a disaster of the magnitude of the one that the united states has experienced. i think that would be a step in the right direction, but it would also be a reminder that our aim is to get out of the oil society, not to stay in it.
madam president, the scale of the disaster in the gulf of mexico is obviously such that it forces us, as european policy makers, to ask ourselves about the security of our own oil installations. the protection of the marine environment requires, among other things, maximum security of oil exploitation sites. but the idea of a moratorium on current or future oil drilling in our waters is clearly inappropriate and inappropriate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is it worth recalling here the serious economic and social consequences of a moratorium, not to mention the danger to our energy independence? last week, norway and russia ended 40 years of disagreement and 30 years of moratorium by validating the principle of a common maritime border in the barents sea and the arctic. the agreement effectively divided up an oil-rich area. how can the european executive at the same time call for a 'pause' in these oil activities and put itself in a position of energy and economic weakness?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is rightly concerned about the possibility of an oil disaster in our waters, similar to the one that occurred in the gulf of mexico. as the tides have repeatedly struck our coasts and affected our minds in the past, we rightly believe that it is of paramount importance to preserve and protect marine ecosystems, animal biodiversity and the economic sectors of fishing and tourism. nevertheless, we must be sensible and not adopt a maximalist position which would consist in instituting a moratorium on any new deepwater oil drilling in european waters. firstly, because we have very strict safety standards in our country for mining and exploration. in addition, national regulators and oil companies in europe have themselves committed to modifying operational and safety rules and procedures if the results of the us disaster investigation so require. secondly, given our imperative of energy independence, it would be extremely risky from a geostrategic point of view to abandon our drilling in the north sea. finally, we risk jeopardizing the future of our oil industry by paralysing its exploration and extraction activities. how can such effects on employment growth be justified in times of crisis?
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak here today on this very important subject, namely biodiversity. in its conclusions of 15 march 2010, entitled 'biodiversity: after 2010. the council stressed the need to preserve biodiversity and to avoid irreversible damage to ecosystems and their functions, including to protect social and economic stability and to achieve the millennium development goals. the council recalled that biodiversity plays a central role in the global fight against hunger and food security and is an essential contributor to wealth creation and poverty reduction. much more than in the eu, in most developing countries, the protection of ecosystems is closely linked to employment, income and livelihoods. with a view to the 10th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity, the eu is committed to making an active and constructive contribution to a global consensus on the post-2010 biodiversity action. this includes measures that need to be able to develop a vision beyond 2010 at the strategic level, which could for example have a time horizon to 2020, a vision that could have a time horizon to 2050, a vision of the secondary objectives and the key milestones, linked to measurable indicators, and finally a vision of the establishment of appropriate arrangements, for monitoring, evaluation and follow-up. the high-level meeting of the united nations general assembly two weeks ago, on 22 september, in new york, was a good opportunity to call on the international community to face the critical state of biodiversity worldwide and also to stress the need to safeguard the basis of life on earth for the benefit of humanity and future generations and to take appropriate initiatives at all levels. as regards technical assistance to the least developed countries, the council considers that the development and transfer of best practices and technologies are essential in the fight against biodiversity loss, climate change and desertification. it is important to achieve a coordinated approach and to use the resources in a satisfactory, cost-effective way. as regards financing, the council considers that the establishment of an effective policy framework for the period after 2010 and the introduction of a new strategic plan for biodiversity will require an appropriate use of resources from all possible sources, both public and private, including new forms of financing and financing of measures to combat climate change. the council also considered that consideration should be given to the possibility of also providing financial resources for biodiversity by modifying, abolishing or redirecting subsidies which are harmful to biodiversity. the integration of biodiversity into business activities and other sectoral policies remains a necessity and a priority objective. in its conclusions of 5 december 2006, the council already noted, in response to the paris message on biodiversity, that biodiversity and the maintenance of ecosystem services should be included in the policy dialogue with partner countries and partner regions. in doing so, they should be encouraged to further identify needs and to give them priority consideration in national and regional development strategies and plans. the council remains convinced that the integration of ecosystem services and biodiversity into development cooperation programmes and subsequent financial support is the only way to achieve sustainable results. although there is a clear link between the aarhus convention on access to information, participation in decision-making and access to justice on environmental matters on the one hand, and biodiversity on the other, it should be borne in mind that this convention was drawn up in the framework of the united nations economic commission for europe. although that convention is open to accession by countries which are not members of that committee, our development partners are not parties to that convention at the present time. i thank you for your interest and i look forward to your debate, which i am sure will provide a lot of new elements.
member of the commission. − madam president, the european union’s strategic objectives for nagoya are set out in the council conclusions of 22 december 2009 and 15 march 2010 and will be further elaborated and refined by the environmental council on 14 october 2010. three issues stand out in particular as priorities for the european union. the first is the adoption of the new strategic plan for the convention for the period 2011-2020. it should reflect the best available scientific knowledge about the state of biodiversity and provide an effective framework of implementation that is sufficiently ambitious to trigger step-up action by all the parties to the convention. this is vital if we are to prevent further species extinctions and enable biodiversity to continue providing the essential goods and services that we all depend on, and especially the poor. the second strategic priority for the european union is to conclude negotiations on the protocol on access and benefit-sharing, as a key contribution to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity beyond 2010 and in line with the commitment taken by all the parties at cop 8 in 2006. this is an expectation widely shared by developing country parties to the convention, many of which see it as their top priority. the third is to ensure that adequate resources are mobilised to enable the implementation of the post-2010 biodiversity policy framework, including the new strategy plan. the eu as a whole is committed, as part of its 2020 biodiversity target adopted earlier this year, to step up its contribution to averting global biodiversity loss, but i think we can also be pretty proud of what we are actually doing. over the period 2002-2008, the european union provided over usd 1 billion, approximately eur 740 million, for global biodiversity annually, largely through the thematic programme on environment and natural resources under the development cooperation instrument, but also the edf, both of which include adequate provisions for biodiversity. member states have also contributed significantly to the recent replenishment of the global environmental facility, for which usd 1.2 billion is earmarked for biodiversity. this represents a 28% increase compared to the last replenishment, and the new eur 1 billion mdg initiative announced by president barroso at the un general assembly in new york last month can clearly also benefit biodiversity. the commission is currently updating its own biodiversity-related development cooperation figures, using the same methodology as it has used to account for climate-related funding, and we are of course encouraging member states to do the same so that we can present a consolidated figure in nagoya. we also need to look at other ways of how we can contribute to enhancing implementation of the convention on biodiversity and help developing country parties deliver on their commitments under the convention, in particular the new post-2010 strategic plan that will be adopted in nagoya. we intend to explore ways and means to do this, together with our partners in nagoya. biodiversity loss is not a new challenge to poverty alleviation, as already mentioned. the 2010 biodiversity target was incorporated into mdg 7 already in 2002 and the eu itself has explicitly underscored the important linkages between biodiversity and development on many occasions. just last month in his statement during the high-level event on biodiversity at the united nations general assembly, president barroso remarked that our ability to end poverty and hunger and improve child and maternal health depends on the long-term availability of fresh water, food, medicine and raw materials that nature provides. this is also recalled in the 2010 mdg report, in the eu policy framework to assist developing countries in addressing food security challenges, and in the commission’s policy coherence for development work programme 2010-2013, which includes a specific target for biodiversity and accompanying indicators as part of the operational framework to enhance the coherence of eu policies with development objectives. what is perhaps new is the increasing knowledge and awareness about economics of biodiversity loss and the extent to which this undermines prospects for alleviating poverty in the long term. the international study of the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity (teeb) shows how costly biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation is to our economies, including the economies in developing countries. so it is not any more a moral question, it is actually a question of our quality of life, and yet the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems is not seen as a development priority. it is hoped that teeb will go some way towards changing this situation so that more of our developing country partners give higher priority to biodiversity conservation and sustainable use in their development strategies but, even where it is not a focus of action in country and regional support strategies, european development policy nevertheless requires that environment and sustainable management of natural resources be treated as a cross-cutting issue to be integrated into all development activities. both the development cooperation instrument and the european development fund include provisions for addressing biodiversity. to conclude, with regard to mechanisms for ensuring the right of access to information and public participation in decision-making related to biodiversity, the eu fully supports the draft cop 10 decision on the strategic plan, which urges parties and other governments to enable broad and effective participation in the full implementation of the objectives of the convention and strategic plan. we also believe that the protocol on access and benefit-sharing should oblige contracting parties to establish domestic frameworks that allow indigenous and local communities to take prior and informed decisions on whether or not to give access to their traditional knowledge. i would endorse everything said by the authors of the questions and i am truly grateful for their valuable contributions.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, madam representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the commitments made in rio in 1992 and in johannesburg in 2002 have not been respected. our strategies to combat biodiversity loss are failing and we know the causes of that failure. climate change, biodiversity is declining, and humanity must resolve to adapt faster and harder. in nagoya, a few weeks from cancún, the european union has the opportunity to push forward the adaptation of our economic development model to meet the challenges of the 21st century. climate change, the fight against biodiversity loss and the fight against poverty - these three challenges and the responses to them are closely linked. we have a responsibility to bring about and initiate a new model of development that is fairer, more equitable and more sustainable. so let's be clear and concrete. the resolution identifies three key issues which raise several questions about the commission's and the council's position today. the first challenge is, of course, to start protecting and restoring biodiversity. this requires adequate funding, the elimination of all public subsidies harmful to biodiversity and a dedicated budget which we propose to increase tenfold. but is the european union prepared to commit 0.3% of its gdp to its policy of combating biodiversity loss and to convince the oecd countries to do the same? the second challenge: the cost of biodiversity loss to society, is just beginning to be assessed. it is estimated to represent about 1% of world gdp, but this estimate does not take into account the social, cultural, moral and scientific value of biodiversity. is the european union determined to reject the monetization of the living? is it determined to defend the common heritage of humanity and to reaffirm that nature has no price and is not for sale? finally, the third challenge is to stop the plundering of genetic resources by companies and industries. one solution is to regulate access to genetic resources, including by fully respecting the rights of indigenous and local communities. the european union will still have a special responsibility in these negotiations. as such, is it determined, on the one hand, to defend the principle of the non-patentability of living things and, on the other hand, to support the repayment of the ecological debt to the countries of the south by supporting the retroactivity of the system to be adopted?
mr president, commissioner, mr council representative, the main objective of the european union, as stated in the lisbon treaty, is the development of a social market economy geared to full employment and social progress. it therefore contains a cross-cutting social clause according to which the promotion of a high level of employment, adequate social protection and the fight against exclusion must guide the definition and implementation of all union policies. social rights, in particular the right of access to services of general interest, are recognised in a binding manner by the charter of fundamental rights. the charter contains rights and principles, such as the right of access to social security benefits, housing assistance and social services. on the eve of the third forum on social services of general interest, initiated by parliament, how can you claim that under the provisions of the lisbon treaty only the rules of competition and the internal market should apply to these social services of general interest, without any adaptation to their specificity of organisation and financing? does the services directive, for example, not call into question the mission of social services of general interest with a strong local anchorage, based on non-profit-making associations? when will you stop this ostrich policy and when will you finally assume your responsibility as co-legislator, in accordance with the new article 14 of the treaty of lisbon on the functioning of the european union?
mr president, commissioner, the treaty of lisbon unquestionably gives europe new social objectives. sustainable development in europe is based on a highly competitive social market economy, which implies full employment and social progress, the fight against social exclusion and discrimination, the promotion of justice and the eradication of poverty. the lisbon treaty confirms the role of the social partners and promotes social dialogue between trade unions and employers' representatives at european level. the real situation on these points is certainly not what some of the speakers have described. today we can dramatize the situation; it is true that there are worrying situations, that the crisis is here and it is not over yet, that there are consequences of the crisis. but europe is taking steps in this area, which we must explain to our citizens, to put financial matters in order, and in this respect it is one of the first to set up the financial organization we are working on. a few brief remarks: with regard to services of general interest in particular, it is necessary - i will say this clearly - to take into account national specificities, because it is true that some of our fellow citizens are a little frightened - i am thinking, for example, of the french - when they have - wrongly - the feeling that europe is calling into question public services which are in the french tradition. in the same way, in the case of public contracts, account should be taken of special situations, in particular those which allow collaboration between several public authorities. however, social policy is conditioned by the health of the economy and by economic growth. this is the primary objective of a social market economy.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the dominant feature in the application of the maastricht treaty is not quite what you say: it is neither article 9 nor article 14 to protect public services. what prevails are the principles of competition, full free trade, lower levels of social protection, the breakdown of pensions, wages, the refusal of fair tax harmonization. this year, for example, has been declared the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. tell us exactly what you have done about it, commission and council members. the decisions taken in recent days, which have led to extreme austerity and the commission has set itself up as a court to enforce it, are contrary to any social project. instead of thinking that austerity and social regression will bring the european union out of the crisis, i think we should think in a completely different way and in reverse. social progress will be the lever to get out of the crisis. i therefore take the liberty of making a proposal to you, which i am putting to your consideration and debate: it would be the creation of a new mechanism, allowing the european central bank to buy, including by monetary creation - as all the banks in the world are now doing - all or part of the debt of states when necessary and to create, at the same time, a european fund for human, social and ecological development. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund.
mr president, i have just come from a meeting of the intergroup on public services. and now, sometimes i wonder if we're talking to the same people. you're all right. most stakeholders at best understand nothing about european regulation, if not all too well. you talk about measuring the social impact of eu policies. then i'd say, "shit, that's a good file to do that with". if, as you claim, there are no problems with public services, and in particular with local public services, commit yourself to a real, comprehensive review of the liberalization of public services throughout the european union. free and undistorted competition was to bring prices down. i'm french. i will give you just a few examples which perhaps explain why the french are a little wary of europe in this matter: the price of postal services, rail and air transport, and the price of water, which has been allocated to private companies, has increased exponentially. the concept of universal service was to ensure that the most basic services were available to all. in reality, it is hardly charity for the poorest and discrimination is deepening. where is your fair distribution of wealth when we know that, all over europe, the inequalities between the richest and the poorest are constantly increasing? so yes, commissioner, as many members have already asked you, when will the commission decide to take account of the consequences of articles 9 and 14 of the treaties, as well as the protocol on the gss, in other words, will it respect the rights of parliament? what are you afraid of, please?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mrs fajon, on her excellent report and also say that, although this is a very important first step, the visa exemption proposed in this text is still the cornerstone of progress on the road to integration. as you said, mrs fajon, this is indeed a great moment for citizens, all those concerned, and especially young people whose mobility is a very important condition for them to become citizens open to the rest of the world. i fully share your wish that this report be adopted very quickly so that by christmas things have moved forward. but i would like to see the process go further. we cannot allow the citizens of kosovo to be the only citizens of the balkans who cannot travel freely and i hope that the commission will look at this matter quickly. so while preserving our european demands - and as a frenchman i fully agree with sarah ludford that the governmental discourse is not the only thing to be said in france - i propose that we do not be afraid and that we move forward on this path of liberalization.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i would first like to pay very brief tribute to the excellent work of our colleague mr karas. i was one of those who wanted to see an own-initiative report before the commission proposed the necessary arrangements for transposing the basle agreement, and i am glad that the work carried out by our friend mr karas in collaboration with the various fictitious rapporteurs has helped to clarify the points of concern. i will not repeat them, commissioner, and i would like to say that i of course agree with the points you have made and your determination to ensure that this regulation is effective and pragmatic and, above all, that it does not create distortions of competition at international level. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i also see that countries outside the european union - and i am thinking of the united states - have an unfortunate tendency to want to make value judgments about how we work, when they themselves are not implementing the arrangements they should be applying. as far as basle is concerned, it is essential that european companies are treated in the same way and not penalized more than us companies. in the united states, few banks are already subject to the basel committee guidelines and, in fact, nothing is applied today. i would not like the provisions which were adopted in june to regulate american finance - and the talk about them exceeds their real impact - to provide a legal basis for not applying provisions which would be taken by entities outside the united states. i am counting on your vigilance and determination, which i know are total, to ensure that there is no distortion of competition which will be a penalty for french banks, for european banks and, in general, for those who finance the economy. it is right that we should return banks to their primary function of financing economic development. we must ensure that they are not penalized excessively.
madam president, commissioner, i remember that a few years ago i asked the commissioner responsible for competition at the time: 'have you realised, have you measured the usefulness for consumers of the fines you have fixed?' and she said at the beginning of a meeting of our committee: 'i have recovered so many millions of euros for fines'. and the answer was, no, we didn't. it seems that since then you have done some research to find out what the actual damage was. but i would like to draw attention to two aspects. the first is that the fixing is made on the basis of the group's turnover. the company which may have infringed the competition rules, and i am not protecting it, may be a relatively small company in the group. and so there's something that seems a little strange to me, especially when there are separate legal entities. secondly, commissioner, you, not your colleague, often insist on the need for prevention, saying that prevention is better than repression and in any case more effective. so the question i ask is whether these very large fines, which are always in the headlines when they are issued, have a real preventive role. and i wonder whether we would not be in a more effective area of prevention if, instead of giving priority to the amount of fines, we gave priority to the number of checks. we can see from a recent case in france that we can reach convictions, amounts which take four or five thousand years to be able to cope with. i think we should not dwell on these figures but rather look at the practical consequences for the company, even in a difficult economic situation. cheating the competition rules, it's not good. a penalty is justified but it must be truly proportionate and that is why we were asking you whether the commission was going to change its rules. i think you said no in advance, and that's a shame.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a pivotal moment in the debate on the future of the european social fund. at a time when the number one concern of all countries, of all european regions, is employment, i am proud of the resolution that our parliament is proposing today on the future of the esf. it is a responsible, practical text which opens the door to the future. today, our territories need cohesion policy and therefore the support of the european structural funds more than ever. the esf has been in existence since 1957 and was set up by the treaty of rome, the founding treaty of the european union. his legitimacy is no longer to be proved. my position on the future of the esf is simple and clear and can be summed up in three points. firstly, a european social fund which maintains its vocation to promote employment. to act against poverty, yes, of course, but then by bringing the person back into the labour market and not otherwise. today employment must be our main concern and must be our priority. europe needs a social face and the esf gives us the opportunity to do so. i am convinced that a person who finds a job is also a person who finds his human dignity. secondly, an effective european social fund with clear and pragmatic rules which do not discourage operators. that is why i support my political group's call for more visibility of the esf, in particular to improve its allocation. imagine that budgetary envelopes are sometimes returned to the european union because they are not used, while unemployment rates have never been higher. thirdly, we need a fund that is part of a strong cohesion policy. the esf must decide with partners as close as possible to the ground. so can you assure us, commissioners, that the esf will meet these expectations?
mr president, commissioner, thank you for this opportunity to debate before the commission deliberates on these proposals. the employment situation, the poverty situation, the economic, financial and social crisis in the european union and the resulting austerity measures in the member states' budgets oblige us, at european level, to take the full measure of the employment question, the question of social policies and to consider the esf as the economic policy tool of the european union, of the european union budget, to fulfil both the objectives of the treaty in the name of economic, social and territorial cohesion but also the strategy whose proposal has just been accepted by the heads of state and government and which includes in its objectives both the increase in the employment rate and the fight against poverty. in this context, as the review of the european social fund is being launched, i would like to give you, commissioner andor, a few pointers. we believe that the regions are the effective authorizers of european public expenditure. but that does not mean that the tools of economic policy must be reduced to the issue of territorial cohesion. in cohesion there is also economic and social cohesion. it can be ordered by the regions, but it must fulfil objectives which are economic and social objectives and which concern all the territories of the european union. and when you revise these rules, commissioner, i would first of all ask you to take account of the experience gained in the implementation of the globalisation adjustment fund, where there is a capacity for individualisation, a capacity for adaptation for each of the workers concerned, which can also be useful for the european social fund. i would also like to invite you to articulate some of the objectives of our 2020 strategy: employability, employment, the fight against poverty and research and development. research and development, it's very important for galileo and others. but there is also a huge, unused field, mr commissioner, in the field of social innovation, which i invite you to explore using the european social fund, with, in this case, perhaps a little different arbitration in terms of co-financing. and then, as mrs zimmer said, i fully agree with her: employability cannot be the sole objective of the european social fund, there is also the question of combating social exclusion and taking account of the most vulnerable populations, the young, women, the disabled, the roma, to name just a few. finally, commissioner, a word on the conditions for using the european social fund. we know, everyone says: "there is kafka at home, there is kafka in brussels". there are rules for the use of the european social fund which are too difficult to implement. to do this, let us consider a kind of geometry which varies according to the quality of the use made by the regions of public expenditure. where the regions are able to be quietly authorizers, let us lighten the controls. where there is a need for administrative capacity, let us invent new mechanisms. finally, on the return of unused money in the member states' budgets, i would like to ask us to consider abolishing this rule, which is not the correct use of the european social funds for employment and social inclusion.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to one aspect of this resolution, one which is not secondary to me, but is central, a point from which regional cohesion policies can take their full meaning. the question is which instrument will best enable us to measure the development of european regions most appropriately and which will provide the best decision support, particularly on the eligibility choices for european funds. it is a question of a political compass, a guide to move, i quote the proposed resolution, towards this targeted approach to territorial development, towards this integrated approach. what is this guide on which to base our policies of regional cohesion? today we have only one indicator, gross domestic product, which is a great indicator, a great measuring instrument for economic growth and wealth creation. but regional development issues are not limited to increasing gross domestic product. the well-being of populations is not just an index or a curve. otherwise, we may end up with only a distorted, partial, and therefore partial, indicator. in order to carry out regional cohesion policies which are relevant to the objective of sustainable development of the territories, which, i remind you, is our common objective, the gross domestic product index must be supplemented by other measurement instruments, other indicators, particularly in the social and environmental fields. it is necessary to be able to assess the level of unemployment, precariousness, education, health, environmental quality, air and water quality, protection of resources, access to basic services, etc. therefore, and i will end with this, every effort must be made to create, alongside gross domestic product, a set of social and environmental indicators which will enable regional cohesion policies to move towards development based on the three pillars of sustainable development, economic, social and environmental.
(starting from micro) ...has more than 250 regions with its 27 member states. these regions are not all homogeneous, there are significant differences between them in terms of wealth, development and living standards. and it is to reduce these disparities and make the regions more competitive that the european union has implemented a policy of regional cohesion and convergence based on solidarity and endowed with the appropriate financial means: the erdf, the esf, the cohesion funds. however, despite the progress made, it would be an illusion to think that these differences will disappear in 2013, even in 2020. it is therefore appropriate to maintain the principles of cohesion policy and the accompanying financial means beyond 2013. this regional cohesion and convergence policy must of course be carried out in conjunction with other strategies, such as the eu 2020 strategy. but it must be carried out independently of this strategy and it should not, under the pretext of regionalising a particular objective of the eu 2020 strategy, appropriate or monopolise part of the cohesion policy appropriations. parliament must be very vigilant on this issue, which is essential for all regions, but particularly for regions whose development is lagging behind, particularly the outermost regions.
mr president, i would like to say, first of all, that we are committed to regional development policy. the region is for us the relevant level for the structuring of european economic policies. it offers a natural ability to resist globalisation and thus to preserve employment with a fair distribution throughout europe. secondly, we believe that territorial cohesion policy must be part of the long-term future. the 75% of gdp threshold will be extended in 2014 and that is natural. but is it considered that if in the future the poorest regions cross the 75% threshold, the territorial cohesion of europe will be completed? can the gap between 75% for the poorest and 150% or more for the richest, from simple to double, be considered as the completion of europe's objectives in terms of territorial cohesion? it is therefore necessary to set a long-term horizon for european cohesion policy. the 90% threshold seems to me to be the objective that can be set for today while maintaining a very clear priority for those who are still below 75%. finally, as regards the priorities of this policy: many have spoken of social cohesion, particularly through the esf, the fight against climate change and territorial cooperation across borders, which is also a priority of the commission, but i shall not dwell on this. i want to emphasize the value of europe's diversity. it is expressed above all at the level of the regions and their cultural heritage, and this is a wealth that regional development policy will take into account and highlight.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, today is an extremely important political day for the future of the european union's regional policy. and that's for two reasons, the first one this morning. we, the members of the european parliament, are united in our demands to the european commission and the european ministers. we want to build on our successes in this much-needed policy and change what needs to be changed to make it more accessible and visible. we want a strong policy, well funded, which is a real lever for economic development for all our territories. we want simplified rules, not just in the speeches, but for the project promoters, for the potential beneficiaries. we want the cities and the outermost regions to be given special attention. i worked on this resolution at the working group stage and in the parliamentary committee on regional development. i have advocated and won that the needs of potential beneficiaries be taken into account, adapted to the needs expressed on our land. i want a europe of solidarity and social cohesion, based on a europe of conquest and ambition. the second extremely important event of the day is the action this afternoon, which brings together 140 regions, where 140 regional presidents, together with parliamentarians, representing 85% of the population of the european union, will make a symbolic march to the european commission. we will meet again, mr commissioner, to confirm how much, together, the territory and parliament are aware of the importance of this cohesion policy for businesses, for citizens, for the social and economic sphere, and we are together this afternoon to confirm how much this first political operation is a strong citizen operation, a real signal to the european commission, via the territories directly.
in writing. with the vote of a resolution on thursday 7 october 2010, the european parliament demands that the commission consider a consequent improvement of the instruments of cohesion policy. thanks to the lisbon treaty, cohesion is no longer just economic and social, it is also territorial. regional policy is one of the spearheads of the european construction. it is the second largest item in the union's budget, after the common agricultural policy. europe must adopt an integrated strategy for the development of its territories. the development of crossborder transport links is one of the major challenges of this policy. the trans-pyrenees axis france-spain, which particularly concerns the south-west euro-region, is one of the priorities in this area. at present, road and rail links are not up to par. some areas, though linked socially and economically, are not yet sufficiently connected. the various projects which the commission should carry out in this geographical area will be carried out in the medium and long term. they therefore deserve to be integrated into the reflection on cohesion policy after 2013.
in writing. the structural funds contribute to hundreds of economic, social and cultural projects in all regions of europe, as close as possible to the citizens. their role in the success of the eu 2020 strategy is fundamental. like the vast majority of my colleagues on the committee on regional development, i believe it is imperative to ensure that cohesion policy is strong, well-funded and addressed to all european regions. last year there were rumours that the european commission was considering partial renationalisation of the structural funds. this is unacceptable! i will fight to safeguard the european added value of regional cohesion policy. some would also like to see structural funds concentrated even more on the less prosperous regions. this is an aberration: cohesion policy is not intended to be a policy of assistance, and the so-called rich regions also have many structural social and economic problems. cohesion requires solidarity between all regions. it would be good to assess the relevance of the eligibility criteria for the structural funds. while gdp should remain the main criterion, the commission should also look at other indicators which might better take account of the difficulties of the regions.
in writing. despite the assurances given by the commission and the council, the cohesion policy is under threat because of the envy of the size of its budget. this policy for the balanced development of europe's regions represents one third of community expenditure in 2007-13. it is important to recall some of its principles: cohesion policy must remain a community policy, maintain adequate funding, ensure decentralised management of funds and multi-level governance, and maintain a comprehensive and integrated approach to address the complex challenges facing all european regions. while gdp should remain the main criterion for determining the eligibility of regions for european aid, it has been necessary to fight for the continuation of the consideration of other criteria. europe, with its humanist tradition, must remain at the forefront of the debate on new ways of assessing the wealth and well-being of our citizens. finally, territorial cooperation deserves special attention in the next cohesion policy. this objective is the embodying of europe in the daily lives of our citizens and enables ever closer union between peoples. other
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in line with the unanimous vote in the committee on budgetary control, the decision to refuse discharge which has been submitted to you today is of paramount importance to our institution. first of all, i would like to point out the professionalism and efforts of the other regulatory agencies to meet the standards of good administration. these efforts must not be tarnished by the bad example of the european police college. that is why parliament must take up its responsibilities as discharge authority and refuse to grant discharge to cepol for the 2008 financial year in the circumstances we are experiencing. the parliament cannot accept the serious management failings of the former director and, even more so, cannot accept that the board of directors has not taken its responsibilities in adopting the necessary measures. finally, while the college has been experiencing major difficulties since 2006 and progress is only expected to be seen from 2014 onwards, it is no longer tolerable that the college needs at least nine years to reach a proper level of good administration. in conclusion, i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs for their work on this dossier.
mr president, i will be very brief. i would like to express my admiration for the great musician beethoven and my disapproval of the fact that a european anthem has been forced upon us and has disappeared into ... (applause) (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i am outraged by these statements. in the interests of freedom and peace and of what our citizens have suffered, i simply ask you, if these gentlemen want to be respected and respected by me, to stop accepting the salary of a member of the european parliament, paid by europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i would ask you to consider the exact and original wording of paragraph 35 of the resolution which is being put to the vote, which stresses the importance of corporate social responsibility incorporating biodiversity, that the french version be taken into account and that the word 'social', which has disappeared from the english version, be reinstated and that the version be corrected.
mr president, you have asked us to vote for paragraph 16 in the original text. but there was a separate vote, a prior vote, and paragraph 16 was amended. it was two different votes. so we voted for the original text, but not for the amendment.
in writing. as the jean lambert report argued, i believe it is essential that third country nationals and their families legally resident in the european union have the same rights and benefits as european citizens in terms of access to social security. with this vote, the european parliament puts an end to intolerable discrimination. i regret, however, that some countries, such as denmark and the united kingdom, do not participate in these coordination arrangements for third country nationals. how can the european union succeed in setting up simplified and harmonised systems for third country nationals when some member states prefer not to follow this common dynamic? the risk is indeed that of a 'europe à la carte', but in the face of the reluctance of some, who are firmly attached to their national identities, we must act.
in writing. this text ensures social security cover for third-country nationals throughout the european territory. in this sense, it is a step forward. it is regrettable, however, that the situation of undocumented immigrants is totally ignored. people living illegally also have the right to be protected. in europe, as elsewhere, it must be forbidden to decree that any human being will not be protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs matera's report on the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) for employees of companies in the clothing industry in spain. as i said in september when we discussed the future of the egf after 2013, i regret that this scheme, which was set up to support employees made redundant 'due to the crisis or globalisation', is not currently covered by the european budget. i do not think that the use of funds from other european programmes to finance the egf is a viable solution in the long term. when the committee voted on the budgets for mobilising the egf against the spanish workers mentioned in the matera report, i therefore, together with f. daerden, a belgian socialist member of parliament, recalled the need to work on defining a specific financing line for this scheme. the credibility of the european union in supporting citizens who are facing economic instability is at stake.
in writing. i am thinking of the spanish textile workers who have been sacrificed in the name of the holy globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one could vote against the paltry alms given to them by the european elites. but the little that is given can ease their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. it supports the relocation of textile production. it devotes the profits to the commercial appetites of socially irresponsible billionaires like manuel jove. in the realm of eurocrats, good conscience only costs the community!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs matera on the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) for danfoss group employees in denmark. as i said in september when we discussed the future of the egf after 2013, i regret that this scheme, which was set up to support employees made redundant 'due to the crisis or globalisation', is not currently covered by the european budget. i do not think that the use of funds from other european programmes to finance the egf is a viable solution in the long term. when the committee voted on the budgets for mobilising the egf against the danish employees mentioned in the matera report, i therefore, together with f. daerden, belgian socialist member of parliament, recalled the need to work on defining a specific financing line for this scheme. the credibility of the european union in supporting citizens who are facing economic instability is at stake.
in writing. i am abstaining out of consideration for danish workers brutalized by globalisation. in the situation where they are being plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might feel entitled to vote for the paltry alms that the eurocracy grants them from the tip of their fingers. but the little you give can ease their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is no less odious. it endorses the relocations which the danfoss group has put in place to increase its profits
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs matera's report on the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) for employees of linak a/s in denmark. as i said in september when we discussed the future of the egf after 2013, i regret that this scheme, which was set up to support employees made redundant 'due to the crisis or globalisation', is not currently covered by the european budget. i do not think that the use of funds from other european programmes to finance the egf is a viable solution in the long term. when the committee voted on the budgets for mobilising the egf against the danish employees mentioned in the matera report, i therefore, together with f. daerden, belgian socialist member of parliament, recalled the need to work on defining a specific financing line for this scheme. the credibility of the european union in supporting citizens who are facing economic instability is at stake.
in writing. i am thinking of the danish workers of the linak group who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. he endorses the logic that leads a leading group in the world like linak to relocate to multiply profits that he does not even have the decency to agree to make public!
in writing. i welcome the vote in plenary on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for spanish and danish citizens. this european fund was set up in 2006 to help employees who have been made redundant as a result of restructuring. the rules were amended in 2009 to allow for better use of the appropriations allocated to this fund, which were not all used at that time. the commitment of the fund to help more than 1500 spanish and danish workers is therefore very good news! it is good to stress the importance and relevance of this fund in the context of the economic crisis we are experiencing today. despite its temporary nature, the latter must be maintained - at least as long as it proves its usefulness!
in writing. i voted to refuse discharge to the director of the european police college on the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2008 on the basis of the excellent report by my friend véronique mathieur, member of the european parliament and member of the committee on budgetary control (cocobu). all the arguments put forward in the report justify this decision. on the other hand, i am surprised that the annual accounts have not been approved even though they are not the subject of any significant comments by the european court of auditors. while my colleague mathieu's report, approved by cocobu, proposes three votes (refusal of discharge, closure of accounts and resolution), i find it curious that in reality only two subjects were put to the vote in plenary: discharge and resolution. strange ....in my opinion, there was nothing to prevent the accounts from being closed. we come to an accounting curiosity where, in october 2010, the 2008 accounts are not closed, the 2009 financial year is over and the 2010 financial year is over in a few weeks. understand who can !
in writing. with this vote, the european parliament has sent an important signal to albania and bosnia and herzegovina, that of the prospect of future membership of the european union. allowing visa-free travel for nationals of these two countries will undoubtedly encourage the mobility of young students and strengthen economic and political cooperation with the balkan region, some of whose countries, such as serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, already benefit from such a regime. but let us not be mistaken, this vote by parliament does not in any way mean approval of the policy of the current albanian government, for which we maintain the demands already expressed last july. the main purpose of this measure is to create a link between people. it is of course regrettable that kosovo, because of disagreements between member states on the recognition of its independence, is not included in this process between the european union and the balkan countries. we have to work on it.
in writing. a note by europol, eurojust and frontex estimated the number of irregular migrants entering the european union at 900 000. the document describes illegal immigrants from the balkans as having a high potential for drug, arms and human trafficking. while many of these countries remain highly unstable for geopolitical, religious and even ethnic reasons, the report by the socialist tanja fajon proposes nothing less than the abolition of the visa regime for all the countries of the western balkans. apart from the fact that this right of passage would be contrary to the schengen agreements and the very principles of the functioning and mechanism of accession to the european union, i do not think that there is any question of allowing free movement to countries such as bosnia and herzegovina or albania. the invocation of this "fundamental right" is in reality a "catch-all" utopia. the european union is already facing a massive and uncontrolled immigration which is seriously damaging the identity and the economic and social level of the nations which make up the union. let us instead advocate a fundamental right of peoples to retain control of their borders and to decide sovereignly who may or may not enter their territories.
in writing. if this is about extending visa exemptions to citizens of albania and bosnia and herzegovina, we could discuss the assessment that albania has made progress in eradicating the influence of organised crime. it's not. but the rapporteur's explanatory statement and the afet opinion, both of which advocate the liberalization of visa facilitation with kosovo, are an unacceptable provocation. i therefore vote against.
in writing. considering that the human rights situation in the democratic republic of congo is not improving, but is worsening, and that systematic human rights violations are being committed on a daily basis, including extrajudicial executions, abductions, sexual violence and acts of torture, i believe it was essential for me to vote in favour of this resolution by the european parliament. profits, the economy, mining and land resources are under the control of armed groups, and conflicts have been going on for years, despite the presence of un monuc forces. it is therefore essential to ask the government of the drc to restore stability and security to the country and thus to initiate peace processes.
in writing. we adopted today in plenary by a very large majority a resolution condemning the failures in the protection of human rights in the democratic republic of congo. we have condemned the violence and particularly the mass rapes that took place in the country during the summer. it is urgent to step up the fight against impunity and, above all, to put an end to all violations of human rights, whatever they may be! independent investigations must be carried out to bring the perpetrators to justice. we also deplore the fact that the un peacekeeping forces present in the country have not been able to prevent the violence. their presence is nonetheless essential but they must be allowed to carry out their mandate in the drc to the full.
in writing. a political solution to the armed conflict in the democratic republic of congo (drc) is urgently needed to bring security and stability to the people of eastern congo. this is the subject of the resolution adopted by the european parliament today following the publication of the report by the office of the high commissioner for human rights on 1 october, which lists 617 of the most serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law committed over a period of ten years by state and non-state actors in the drc. tens of thousands of people were killed and many more were raped, mutilated or subjected to other forms of violence during the decade in question. the european union stands ready to support all efforts by the government of the drc and the countries of the great lakes region to jointly promote peace and stability in the region, with a focus on reconciliation, the security of persons, the reform and strengthening of justice, and the return and integration of refugees and internally displaced persons.
in writing. on the occasion of the world day against the death penalty, which will take place on 10 october for the eighth consecutive year, we as european parliamentarians wanted to adopt a resolution to recall our commitment to the death penalty and our wish to see this principle of opposition to the death penalty universally adopted. while 43 countries worldwide retain the death penalty, the resolution calls on those member states which still apply it to declare a moratorium on executions; the objective of achieving total abolition worldwide is one of the priorities of the union's human rights policy.
in writing. the 8th world day against the death penalty, 10 october 2010, is an opportunity for the european parliament to recall that the abolition of the death penalty worldwide remains a priority for the european union, even though it is still practised in 18 countries. in 2009, more than 700 people were executed, not counting the thousands of executions in china. the executions or death sentences have never improved the crime rate, and the european union must therefore promote alternative sentences available to criminal justice systems in its relations with countries still applying this punishment, which is contrary to the universal declaration of human rights. parliament also expressed its deep concern at the application of the death penalty to minors and persons with mental or intellectual disabilities and called for it to be brought to a swift and definitive end.
in writing. the oil spill caused by the deepwater horizon oil rig in the gulf of mexico last spring is the reason for this resolution by the european parliament's environment committee, which aims to draw attention to the urgency of preventing oil spills. i therefore voted for this resolution because it is essential that we succeed in establishing strict european rules for the prevention of accidents on oil platforms and that the union strengthens legislation on environmental liability. i regret, however, that the mention of a moratorium on any new oil drilling until new standards are in place throughout the union was dropped by a majority of members in today's vote. the introduction of a moratorium was in line with the policy of preventing and strengthening security measures for oil platforms and was in line with the policy of barack obama who put in place a similar moratorium in the united states until december 2010.
in writing. the eu must learn from the deepwater horizon disaster and ensure that high safety standards are respected in all offshore oil exploration areas. given the risks of offshore drilling and the uncertainties about the management and possible consequences of such an incident in europe, the resolution we supported calls for 'a moratorium on all new offshore oil drilling in eu waters'. we also ask the commission to take a detailed inventory of the sites and to work on an action plan, in liaison with the member states, to improve safety standards on existing platforms. finally, we want to be sure that the polluters are held legally responsible and that the victims, like the fishermen, can be properly compensated.
in writing. the highest levels of precaution, environmental protection, safety and security are essential principles for oil activities in europe, on which we cannot compromise. the lessons to be drawn from the disaster in the gulf of mexico will be essential to prevent similar events from happening again in the maritime and coastal waters of the european union. nevertheless, parliament was right today in rejecting the maximalist position of a moratorium on any new deepwater oil drilling in european waters. it is not only the survival and future of our european oil industry in times of crisis, but also our energy independence.
in writing. i abstain in the face of a document which does not contain a single reference to the transition to post-oil.
in writing. nearly 5 million barrels of oil spilled into the waters of the gulf of mexico between april and september 2010 following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform, causing extensive damage to both the region's economy and ecosystem. in all, more than 400 species - whales, dolphins, manatees, herons, egrets, and others - are threatened. while the eu has many oil platforms - more than 500 in the north sea - everything must be done at european level to prevent such a disaster from happening on our territory. in voting in favour of this resolution, i am calling for strict european rules on accident prevention for oil platforms to be defined, and for legislation to ensure that high and uniform safety standards apply to all oil platforms and to all drilling activities in the eu, from the atlantic to the black sea. i also welcome the commission's decision to put oil drilling in eu waters through a 'stress test'.
in writing. i supported this balanced resolution which does not prohibit deepwater oil exploration in the future but makes it conditional on compliance with european safety standards, which are among the strictest in the world. in my view, these standards must guarantee both the sustainability of europe's energy supply and the safety and sustainability of offshore activities. we all have in our minds the terrible images of the oil spill in the gulf of mexico, the painful loss of life, the distress of the affected people and the enormous damage caused by the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil platform. that is why i renew my call for the creation of a genuine european civil protection force capable of rapid and effective deployment after such catastrophes. the scarcity of oil makes offshore deepwater exploration and extraction essential. but their impact on the environment must be controlled, and we must ensure that they do not pose a threat to marine and coastal areas and biodiversity in the future. this is a major challenge for the international and environmental image of the european union, which is recording very positive results in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the eu biodiversity goals. in the face of the gradual disappearance of species and thus of the earth's biological wealth, it is important to set ambitious objectives for the protection of fauna and flora while ensuring that man can continue to exploit their wealth. to this end, parliament has advocated targets for resource conservation based on strict regulation and the promotion of new technologies.
in writing. it is regrettable that despite the commitments made by the eu at the european summit in gothenburg in 2001, the loss of biodiversity has still not been halted. this resolution recalls that biodiversity plays a key role in the fight against world hunger and food security; and that it is a prerequisite for any efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change. it is time for all member states to fully implement natura 2000 legislation and the habitats and birds directives and take initiatives to preserve marine biodiversity. this policy for biodiversity must be pursued at both european and international level in order to integrate these concerns, in particular in the union's development cooperation policy and external actions and in any future agreement concluded within the wto.
in writing. the conference of the parties to the cbd will be held in japan from 18 to 29 october. the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been met, either at global or european level. as the parliament's resolution points out, the depletion of biodiversity, if nothing is done quickly to reverse it, will be considerable and uncontrollable in the medium and long term. parliament called for the non-patentability of living organisms and for an end to the plundering of genetic resources by industry and companies, particularly in the southern countries. the protection of biodiversity is an essential element in achieving the millennium development goals. i therefore supported the resolution, which incorporated the amendments proposed by the gue/ngl and the greens. with the cancún climate change conference just a few weeks away, it is therefore high time that the international community, and the european union in particular, in view of its commitment to environmental protection, took up the report 'the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity' (teeb) and its recommendations at the nagoya conference. it is urgent to reiterate that the struggles for biodiversity, against climate change and against poverty are closely linked, as are the responses to address them.
in writing. the basel ii agreements regulate the activities of banks, in particular the capital they must maintain to ensure their solvency. in this resolution, the european parliament advocates long-term risk and profit management, rules that are adapted to the size of banks (so that the largest banks do not feel exempted) and that the costs of adapting to new legislation are not passed on to individuals. parliament also expressed concern that basel ii is not being respected in a uniform way across the world. it urged the european commission to take action to achieve greater harmonisation. i think these recommendations are in the right direction: reducing the risk of a future crisis and protecting individuals. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the attempts to improve the international financial system at the level of the basel committee, the g20 and the european union seem to me to be a caucus on a wooden leg. the september agreement on the volume and quality of bank capital requirements was hailed as a major step forward and a major victory over a banking sector that opposed these measures and threatened to cut off credit. it seems to be a pyrrhic victory: the share prices of companies in the sector have barely risen since the agreement was reached, which is not a good sign. banks have until 2019 to comply with the new regulations and anything can happen between now and then. risk analysis, which is known to be totally ineffective, remains at the heart of the system. the liquidity and leverage ratios were not resolved, nor were off-balance sheet assets and securitisation. financial institutions that do not receive money from the public sector, such as hedge funds, are not affected, despite their dangerousness and the perversity of their operation. in short, nothing is solved, and nothing will be solved until we change the system in its entirety instead of trying to patch it up.
in writing. this text does not meet the challenge of the current crisis and its economic and social consequences. the urgent need is to radically change the rules of the banking system, not to take half measures to preserve it. the basel accord sets a ridiculously low level of equity and does not prohibit any of the tools of speculation. i vote against this appearance of speculation.
in writing. africa is exhausted by the consequences of the crisis, natural disasters, extreme poverty, wars, epidemics, so it is urgent to help it to implement a sustainable health policy. that is why i supported this report, which envisages health systems financed in a mixed way by state resources, international solidarity and citizen participation. this requires that european countries keep their promise to spend at least 0.7% of gdp on cooperation in 2010. the eu must support the many existing mutual initiatives aimed at improving access to health care. member states are called upon to provide their expertise and greater technical and financial support to the governments of the developing countries in order to establish and extend social protection systems. finally, the eib also has a role to play in guaranteeing loans, co-financing investments in clinics and covering part of the remuneration of health professionals. only through these combined efforts will africa be able to have a sustainable health system that is accessible to all.
in writing. strengthening health systems in sub-saharan africa is a crucial aspect of development policies. addressing the shortcomings of health care systems will also have an impact on global public health, through improved training of carers, tailored prevention campaigns, and lower treatment costs. this will help to reduce serious epidemics such as hiv, tuberculosis and dysentery. it is unacceptable that private companies, in the name of profit, impede access to health care, much less that conservative religious movements reject sexual and reproductive health policies and question the right to abortion, thus endangering the health of millions of women. improving health systems in sub-saharan africa and globally requires the european union to coordinate better with the rest of the international community. in particular, it has a role to play in fostering the emergence of mutualist, non-profit-making and supportive health structures, which promote access to quality health care. that is why i support the adoption of the veronique de keyser report.
in writing. how can we accept that the life expectancy of an african and a european can differ by 30 or 40 years? several factors, such as poor governance, natural disasters and extreme poverty, contribute to a worrying situation, where african health indicators are among the most worrying in the world. as the report points out, the world bank believes that it is unlikely that developing countries will be able to finance their own national health systems with tax revenues in the near future. in this context, non-profit systems funded in a mixed way, both through state resources, international solidarity and citizen participation, can help to address the huge health challenge in sub-saharan africa. certainly, some african countries have already embarked on promising initiatives with the help of the international community. but the european union has a specific role to play in building health structures of solidarity - by guiding and financing basic health systems or access to medicines, and by supporting programmes to raise awareness of prevention and early diagnosis of diseases.
in writing. my colleagues and i believe that we must build on the successes of the european union's regional policy. this means that it will have to undergo an evolution, not a revolution. it must remain a strong policy, well funded and a real lever for economic development for all our regions. we want simplified rules, not just in words but in deeds. we believe that the cities or the outermost regions should be given special attention. having worked on this resolution both in the working group and in the parliamentary committee on regional development, i have made two important advances: that the needs of potential beneficiaries are better taken into account and that the concept of gdp is not unnecessarily sacralized. i think that gdp should remain the main criterion for allocating funds, but we must also consider other criteria. i am satisfied with the compromise reached and have voted in favour of this text. by adopting this resolution by a very large majority, we have come together and sent a very clear message to the european commission and the european ministers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the european union's regional and cohesion policy after 2013. this text contains key statements such as the need to maintain, after 2013, a cohesion policy which is a necessary condition for the union of the member states. i think that we have to be very cautious about asking that, under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy (cap), rural development be coordinated with the cohesion development objectives and managed at regional level to ensure that it is appropriate to the needs. regional adequacy can be achieved by contracting without a mandatory instrument. we are in complete agreement that cohesion policy should not be renationalised. cohesion policy must not be national or regional: it must be european. we must move from a cohesion policy based on the reunification of the continent to a cohesion policy based on the planning and development of the european territory: to make the union the most competitive territory in the world in economic and social terms and the most sustainable in environmental terms: this is an ambition linked to the europe of results that citizens expect.
in writing. the european parliament has just adopted the resolution on the european union's cohesion and regional policy after 2013 in support of the demands made by the regions currently meeting in brussels for the open days. parliament wants to send a strong political signal ahead of the fifth cohesion report due in november, which will set out the broad guidelines for eu regional policy after 2013. the social crisis we are currently experiencing gives a special dimension to regional development policy. in order to continue to cope with this period of economic restructuring, the regions need an appropriate budget. to ensure the success of the eu 2020 strategy, the regions also need to be better involved and to be able to take action. the european commission must continue to simplify the procedures for accessing funds. finally, cohesion policy must also be better communicated so that european citizens understand the importance of the structural funds in major projects for territorial and social cohesion. this is one of the actions of proximity which europe must promote.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution setting out the guidelines for the erdf for the 2014-2020 budgetary period. i think that by recalling the regional nature of the erdf we are reaffirming the need to take account of the specific features of the territories in the implementation of regional policy. nevertheless, it is essential that the managing authorities take account of the realities on the ground and determine areas of erdf intervention which genuinely meet the needs of local authorities and economic operators. it is true that the management of the erdf in our regions is marked by profound disparities, which is why i am calling for the management standards to be harmonized at european level. it is also important to provide for greater opportunities to adjust the lines of intervention midway through the programme in line with the economic and social context and the evolution of the territories, so that the erdf can bring real added value throughout the programming period. the erdf is, in my view, a formidable lever for growth, employment and territorial cohesion, and it must become a relevant tool for effectively supporting structural development projects at the service of our citizens and our territories.
in writing. article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that: in defining and implementing its policies and actions, the union shall take into account requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion and a high level of education, training and protection of human health. other it seems to me therefore essential to increase the effectiveness and visibility of the european social fund (esf), the social component of the european union's regional policy. the €10 billion invested each year in a social europe (lifelong learning, social inclusion, adaptation of workers, etc.) must be used in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the eu2020 strategy and be fully exploited. however, the esf must remain an integral part of the eu's regional policy to avoid that a sharp differentiation of funds leads to increased complexity. i voted for this text because it clearly sets out these challenges and makes a strong appeal to the european commission: the esf must become a central instrument of european policies.
in writing. the european social fund plays a key role in promoting social cohesion by helping to integrate workers in european regions. its action in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, education and vocational training is essential for the success of the eu 2020 strategy. the role of the european social fund could, however, be further strengthened. the future architecture of the structural funds for 2014-2020 will have to take into account the specificities of the fund. adjustments may be considered. but it is important to keep the european social fund within the framework of the general regulation on the structural funds, as is the case today. the creation of a legal framework of its own will inevitably lead to a fragmentation of european policies and unnecessary complexity for the beneficiaries. the coherence of european policies must go hand in hand with an integrated vision of objectives and means, which requires greater synergies between instruments. the european social fund must therefore continue to operate under the general regulation, albeit with its own rules, but in no case with an independent budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the european social fund (esf). the esf is a key element of european social cohesion, supporting employment, the integration of workers into the labour market and vocational training. in this text we have clearly spoken out against the european commission's proposal to separate the european social fund from the other funds. on the contrary, it must be closely linked to other instruments, in particular regional policy instruments, in order to increase its effectiveness. we have voted for greater efficiency, simplification and transparency in this instrument, which must continue to be a powerful lever for the construction of social europe. the european social fund must also be able to be directed towards the fight against poverty and social exclusion as a whole and to help meet the union's objectives in this field.
in writing. this report claims to defend decent work and to fight against precarious work. pretending is one thing. we still have to find the means. the europe 2020 strategy goes in the opposite direction of such a claim. what is the real significance of this gossip? i don't know. why point out the problems of the poor and ignore the problems of the rich? this text is a hypocritical sermon.
in writing. the european parliament voted a resolution on the future of the european social fund. at a time when the esf is being challenged, in particular by the president of the commission, who wants to integrate it into a wider fund with diluted objectives, this support for the esf by the european parliament is important. the resolution supports the role of the esf in the context of european regional and social policy and calls for the simplification of the procedures for allocating funds. these overly restrictive procedures do not promote a distribution of funds that is really adapted to the needs of the population and, moreover, lead to a non-consumption of appropriations, especially in france, which is a scandal in itself. i regret, however, that the resolution in particular repeats the dogma of 'modernization of education systems' and calls for these to be adapted to the needs of enterprises alone in order to improve access to employment.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, commissioner, we are finally coming to the end of these long months of work to lay the foundations for the future external action service of the european union, but i wanted, as some of my colleagues have done before, to thank the rapporteurs for the quality of their work. because we all want to see real european diplomacy, which is not just the sum of the 27 member states' diplomacies, the financial regulation and the regulation on the status of civil servants, which we are discussing today and will be voting on tomorrow, are of paramount importance. they must enable us to meet a double challenge: to speak with one voice on the international scene, but also to ensure the coherence of the union's external policies as a whole. as such, trade policy is not within the competence of the high representative, but as a former trade commissioner, i have no doubt that she will be able to create the dialogue necessary to ensure that trade policy properly respects the objectives of the union's external action, as set out in the treaty, in particular sustainable development, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights. finally, i would like to stress that our common political will will be measured by the budgetary resources devoted; our ability to exert political influence on the international stage depends on it.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since 2010 is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, we are of course well aware that the challenge of poverty is not confined to the borders of the union, nor can it be solved exclusively within them. the recent series of global crises that have affected all countries, with the poorest being the hardest hit, has shown how interconnected the world is today. promoting development is therefore an integral part of europe's response to today's global challenges and the next five years will be crucial for european and therefore global development policy. it is enshrined in article 208 of the lisbon treaty, and we have stated in the european consensus on development, that the primary objective of the european union's development cooperation is the eradication of poverty in the context of sustainable development, in particular by striving to achieve the millennium development goals. however, the achievement of all the millennium development goals in the context of sustainable development is a collective responsibility, whereby all partners should respect the commitments they have made. the european union is convinced that developing countries are responsible and in control of their own development and that they bear the primary responsibility for achieving the millennium development goals. it is therefore important to stress that their achievement requires comprehensive strategies including democratic governance, protection of human rights and the rule of law, economic growth for the poor, private sector development, trade development, human and social development, and environmental sustainability. the european union encourages partner countries to rapidly step up their own efforts, including in the reduction of poverty and inequality and in the establishment of partnerships with civil society, the private sector and local authorities. the european union will strengthen its support for their efforts to mobilise national resources for development, in particular in the context of improving public financial management and the soundness and efficiency of their tax and customs systems. on 22 september, the member states of the united nations, in adopting the outcome document of the millennium development goals summit, reaffirmed their commitment to work together to improve the economic and social conditions of all peoples and to do all in their power to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me first thank you for this opportunity to talk about the challenge of poverty and what the european union can do on the global level through its development cooperation policy. in the second part of this statement i will also turn to the report by mrs figueiredo. eradicating poverty is the most pressing global challenge of our time. it is a challenge that must be tackled, not only for obvious reasons of solidarity and duty, but also for the sake of worldwide prosperity and stability. and that is in everybody’s interests. in 2000, world leaders gathered at the un in new york and agreed on an international development agenda for the coming 15 years, the millennium development goals. among the different goals and targets set in the framework, the world committed to reduce extreme poverty by half. where are we now, five years before the 2015 deadline? encouraging progress has been achieved. overall, 120 million people moved out of poverty between 2000 and 2005, which corresponds to an annual drop of 2.4%, but there is no time for complacency. today, 1.4 billion people still live in extreme poverty, and there are huge disparities among regions, countries and population groups. besides, the recent and current global crisis – from food and fuel price shocks to economic instability and climate change – threatens both past achievements and future prospects. two weeks ago, the mdg summit confirmed the world’s ambition to fight against poverty. members of the european parliament, led by gay mitchell, made an important contribution to that summit and i thank them very much for their participation and support. i would also like to thank parliament for its support in the whole preparation process ending with adoption of the cashman report. this house’s continuing attention to the mdgs made the eu’s position strong and ambitious in new york. i think the meps who took part in the summit were reassured by the outcome. there was no blame game; rather, the gathering gave new energy, impetus and hope with regard to attaining the goals. it demonstrated that the mdgs are still high on the political agenda, with some 110 heads of state and government attending the summit. the european union was instrumental in making this event a success by shaping and voicing a strong common approach among our 27 member states. the fight against poverty is also high on our agenda in the european union. this is part of our european project. it is a central objective of the european union development policy, as stated in the lisbon treaty, and it is also something that european citizens firmly support, which is equally important. as the world’s leading donor, the european union has made a major contribution to the achievement of the mdgs so far. to give you just two examples, the european commission alone has helped put 9 million more girls and boys in schools since 2004, and we have connected 31 million households to clean drinking water. i believe this is something to be proud of, but we need to do more and we can do more. in june, europe’s leaders helped make the mdgs stronger by agreeing on an ambitious plan and a set of actions. the plan prioritises action on the goals on which we have made the least progress, and in those regions and countries that are lagging furthest behind, including those experiencing conflict and fragility. the plan also confirms our commitment to meeting the 0.7% gni target by 2050, despite the difficult economic and financial context. to achieve this we need to assess progress on this every year. turning the millennium development goals – in particular the goal relating to poverty eradication – into millennium development realities by 2015 will also remain the overarching priority of my action. we all know that aid alone will not be sufficient to attain the mdgs. to meet the goals it is also of paramount importance that we are more creative in enhancing the impact of our aid, in promoting more sustainable and more inclusive growth, and in mobilising other and additional sources of finance for development. equally important are the quality and effectiveness of aid, including through more transparency and accountability, as well as ensuring that non-aid policies are more supportive of the mdgs. development aid must be conceived as a catalyst, not as a cure. no country has ever been transformed by aid alone. sustainable progress depends primarily on developing a country’s capacity to generate inclusive and sustainable growth. development can only come from within developing countries, not from outside, and so it is on this ‘within’ that we must focus our development efforts. in the end, this is what the principle of ‘ownership’ means. in november, i plan to launch a green paper and public consultation to gather views on how to improve our policies and instruments to better act on the enabling factors for sustainable and inclusive growth in partner countries, thereby tackling the root causes of poverty, bringing strong added value to our development cooperation. i believe, as usual, that your contribution to this debate will be essential. i would like to thank ms figueiredo for her report on minimum income schemes. at the very heart of her report is the basic right of people to have sufficient resources to allow them to live in dignity. this is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it has inspired several recent commission initiatives in the area of active inclusion, in particular the 2008 commission recommendation on active inclusion which was endorsed by parliament and the council. the recommendation sets out integrated active inclusion strategies based on three pillars – namely inclusive labour markets, access to quality services and adequate income support. the commission therefore welcomes this report. at the same time, we fully respect member state competences as regards the design and functioning of social protection schemes in general and minimum income schemes in particular. adequate income is a fundamental component in the fight against poverty for people who cannot work. it constitutes a necessary complement to inclusive labour markets, to combat poverty for people who can work. the report rightly reaffirms the basic principle of income support, which has to be both adequate and incentive-compatible. member states are currently taking fiscal consolidation measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. the commission shares the view that these measures have to take account of the need to protect the most vulnerable members of society. the european commission will present a european platform against poverty by the end of this year, setting out concrete measures to support member states in reaching the target of lifting at least 20 million european citizens out of poverty by 2020.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 80 million poor people in europe, more than 5 million homeless, millions of poorly housed people, one in five children living in poverty, and at the other end of the scale, what do we have? the number of billionaires is increasing. we have just celebrated the world day for the abolition of poverty on 17 october, and the european year for the eradication of poverty and social exclusion is coming to an end. what concrete solutions will europe have brought to those who are the first victims of a crisis for which they are not responsible? what hope do we offer to my generation, the european generation which is suffering the full brunt of unemployment, precariousness and exclusion, these young people who distrust europe, who expect a great deal from it and therefore from you? we have a duty to respond to their daily anxiety and their anxiety about the future. the lisbon strategy has failed in its mission to eradicate poverty. we no longer have the right to watch and let it happen. this is no longer the time for fine words, for empty words. it is time to show boldness, political courage. all the associations that work with people in poverty, atd quart monde, eapn, feansa, emmaüs europe, have been calling for this for 20 years! that is why we are asking the european commission to draw up a framework directive to define an adequate minimum income. this framework directive will ensure eligibility for and access to a minimum income sufficient to lift every child, adult and elderly person living in poverty out of it and thus guarantee their inalienable right to live in dignity. we have no time left, ladies and gentlemen, and we must act now. let us put an end to this unbearable scandal of enduring poverty together! poverty, the end of poverty, should not be a slogan, it is a reality and i hope that together we will fight this fight.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, in the wake of 17 october, the day of mobilisation for the fight against poverty, in this year of mobilisation for the fight against poverty and social exclusion, we know that in 2007, before the crisis, the european union had 17% of the poor. we do not know the actual figure, but we all know that it is considerable and we cannot accept such a situation. if we are consistent with our commitments, if we believe in what we have adopted as a fundamental law, in article 1 of the charter which tells us that every person has the right to dignity, in the lisbon treaty which makes the fight against social exclusion an objective of the european union, in the 2020 strategy which makes the objective of fighting poverty one of its key objectives, and if at no time do we define the means of implementing such a strategy, then we will fail and we will fail to create disillusionment among our fellow citizens. we must take a legislative initiative for a minimum income and organise funding... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, we have been celebrating this international day for the eradication of poverty for many years now, without much concrete results, it must be admitted, and we risk celebrating it for many decades to come if the same policies continue to be pursued. from this point of view, europe and the west in general cannot shirk their responsibilities. the fight against poverty is the fight for a fair distribution of wealth within states and internationally. it also means respecting the environment and upholding the principle of equality between human beings everywhere. if the speeches we are making today are not followed by concrete actions in the sense of what we have heard here, i fear that the statements we are making will remain statements of good intentions, without any real impact on the misery and poverty in the world and in europe.
in writing. first, the inclusion of the fight against poverty in the 2020 strategy is a significant step forward for me. the economic crisis has increased poverty in recent years. the european union must be able to encourage the member states to tackle this problem. secondly, the european social fund (esf) is the essential european tool for fighting poverty. i am a rapporteur for the european social fund and i support its use to bring back into employment those who are furthest from the labour market. the esf has had this vocation since its creation with the treaty of rome and must keep this primary objective: employment. thirdly, i am against a minimum income without compensation except for those unable to find work. to reduce poverty, employment is the norm. it's the only way to restore dignity to any person. fourthly, the governments of the member states have a responsibility to actively combat poverty. europe is there to accompany them, to complete their action but is not meant to replace them. europe cannot solve all the problems. states must take their responsibilities first.
in writing. the current directive 2009/42/ec provides for data collection for maritime transport statistics on a voluntary basis. the amendment to this directive will make it compulsory to collect data by type of goods. i welcome this amendment, which will not impose any additional burden, since member states must be able to compile data using existing sources. it is logical that these rules should be binding on maritime transport, whereas they are already binding on road, rail and inland waterway transport. i also welcome the rapporteur's amendments on the implementation of the regulation under the delegated act procedure. parliament must take advantage of this new prerogative provided for by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. parliament was again asked to approve the payment of aid from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) to employees made unemployed by the crisis or relocations. again, this aid will be allocated from budget lines originally allocated to other european programmes, as the egf does not have its own funding under the current financial framework. in order to put an end to this situation, i worked, as part of the preparation of the 2011 budget, on the creation of a payment line specific to the egf. eur 50 000 000 was thus adopted by parliament in its vote on the budget reading on 20 october 2010. this amount, which remains symbolic in the light of annual needs, has yet to be confirmed, the european council having initially rejected the proposal to allocate funds from the egf. i shall therefore continue to monitor this matter with a view to achieving the budgetary and legislative consolidation of this system.
in writing. on the day after the world day against poverty and social exclusion, i voted resolutely in favour of this report on women workers in precarious employment. because it is a fact: despite positive developments in gender parity, gender equality, women remain more vulnerable than men in terms of employment. women are much more likely than men to be in precarious employment. and there are still many disparities between men and women in terms of employment opportunities, quality of work, income and pay. it is therefore essential that the commission acts to actively promote equal opportunities for women and men in employment policies, through a future gender equality strategy, through a gradual shift from the status of a precarious worker to that of a regular worker, and that it supports national initiatives in this direction.
in writing. in the context of the work of the parliamentary committee on women's rights, the report by the socialist britta thomsen is generous in terms of social progress. but as usual, this type of report is full of rather vague and even unacceptable "all-in-one" proposals, with a strong leftist, environmentalist and immigrationist connotation at the bottom. it is not possible to consider, for example, that it should be possible to support the settlement of 'migrant women' when it is not really clear whether they are legal or illegal. while it is true that these women, or men, are the first victims of globalization and ultra-liberal neo-slavery, the solution to prevent them from falling into many horrible traps (misconduct, violence or sexual abuse) lies first in allowing them to stay in their country of origin. to this end, immigration policy must be reversed to enable these populations tempted by economic exile to remain in their home countries, by redefining binding international aid to enable political and economic stabilization of these countries.
in writing. low, undeclared or unclear wage earners, workers with no right to social protection or employment-related benefits, workers with no prospect of advancement on the labour market, etc. the number of so-called 'precarious' workers is increasing, as a consequence of the economic crisis we are experiencing. among these workers, there is a high gender disparity: women are overrepresented. i am aware of the need to increase their protection and have therefore supported the european parliament's resolution on women in precarious employment. i call on the member states to ensure that employers who subject their female employees to abusive or harmful treatment are brought to justice swiftly. measures must also be taken to ensure that precarious workers have access to union-based protection of rights such as decent pay, maternity leave and fair and regular working hours. i also hope that the barcelona targets on childcare will be implemented as soon as possible and that the obstacles to women working the number of hours they want - whether part-time or full-time - will be removed.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, on the 2011 budget, the committee on employment and social affairs welcomes the fact that the committee on budgets has restored the appropriations for the globalisation adjustment fund. in this crisis we think it is absolutely essential and we ask the council to follow parliament in its wisdom in the climate we are in today. we also ask that special attention be paid to the pace of commitment of payments in respect of the european social fund, otherwise the fund cannot meet its objectives. we also ask for more resources to be devoted to social dialogue because in the restructuring we are experiencing, experience teaches us that where there is social dialogue, things can happen in a more harmonious way and more optimal solutions can be found. this is a big issue. finally, we welcome the fact that the committee on budgets has supported the eures first job initiative, which is a concrete contribution by the european parliament to the flagship initiative on youth on the move and is also a tool for social innovation which we need to develop.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. - mr president, the committee on transport, which has been very reasonable in its proposals during this period of crisis, would like to point out that transport and tourism account for well over 10% of the union's gross domestic product and that they are essential sectors of growth with high european added value. three points in particular deserve to be emphasized and we want to see them supported. first, the funding of the agencies. in order to be able to legislate without having upstream thinking and downstream operational implementation instruments, these amendments are intended to give the agencies the means to carry out their tasks and thus those of europe. secondly, tourism, for which the union is the world's leading destination, has become an effective competence since the lisbon treaty and has no budget line of its own. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. we ask that our action be strengthened, at least in a symbolic way, by supporting new pilot projects, particularly on industrial and cultural tourism. finally, the eruption of the icelandic volcano has shown us the value of setting up a single european interface for information and ticketing for all modes of transport, and this is the subject of our last request.
mr president, this 2011 budget is the first budget of the union under the new provisions of the lisbon treaty. our rapporteurs have done a very good job in the service of the european institutions, and i thank them for that. our parliament has been able to resist the pressure to impose budgetary austerity at the expense of our priorities, particularly in the field of sustainable development. we welcome some of the amendments that have been voted. as a corsican member of parliament, i am pleased that european funds are now open to the endangered languages of europe, whatever their status in their member state. we also believe that this budget of the union introduces essential debates on the future of europe. the vote in favour of the 2011 budget is a first step for us. parliament's work is just beginning. first, to bring our new skills to life. the commission and the heads of state have received some interesting signals in this respect, particularly in connection with the iter project. secondly, to encourage reflection and thus the balance of power so that our resources are re-valued in the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the european union must obtain its own resources, such as taxation of financial transactions or the introduction of a european carbon tax. this budget for 2011 therefore introduces debates explicitly, even if it is by symbolic inscriptions. through this budget, parliament has taken on its new responsibilities and is preparing for the debates which will determine the future of the union.
madam president, ministers, commissioner, by adopting these amendments to the draft budget for 2011, the committee on budgets wanted to show responsibility. we understand, mr minister, the position of the governments. in each country, bold and unpopular policies are being implemented to reduce deficits that have become unsustainable. the european parliament has expressed its support for these policies. in such a context, we cannot ask the member states to increase their taxes or their debt to finance a significant increase in the european budget. for the first time in 20 years, the european parliament will not vote on an amendment that goes beyond the ceilings of the current financial perspective. similarly, where the council has agreed to a symbolic increase of 0.2% in commitment appropriations, the committee on budgets proposes 0.8% in current euro, i.e. a reduction in volume. and as regards payments, mr minister, the european parliament will listen to the council, whose clear message we have understood. the european parliament expects the same spirit of responsibility from the council. the lisbon treaty gives the union new or strengthened competences: a common energy policy, a common foreign and security policy, a common immigration policy, a common space policy, etc. is it responsible for making the public believe that these policies will be implemented without spending a single euro before the second half of the current decade? the ambitious europe 2020 programme was unanimously adopted by the european council last july. would he be responsible for finding himself six months later with no idea how he would be funded? we see that the financing of the european budget by levies from national budgets is now leading to a political and financial impasse. is he responsible for refusing any further development of this system? we therefore believe that the negotiations on the 2011 budget, the first budget for the implementation of the lisbon treaty, must be accompanied by a political agreement to guarantee the future financing of the union's policies. agreement on a revision of the financial perspective to apply from 2012 to complete the financing of projects already launched, such as iter or galileo, and to start allocating the new competences of the lisbon treaty and the europe 2020 priorities. agreement to open debate on the reform of own resources. parliament asked for it three years ago. we welcome the fact that the commission is timidly beginning to put some of the possible options on the table. let us agree to work together on this, between the three institutions and involving the national parliaments. we need to agree on the procedure and timetable for this overall agreement, which we, like the council, hope will be reached.
madam president, following parliament's decision last week to refuse discharge to the european police college for 2008, parliament will now strengthen its position by freezing part of cepol's budget. we will make sure that the reserve proposed by the committee on budgets achieves its purpose. in other words, we will insist that a part of cepol's budget be released in accordance with the agency's response to our requests contained in the request for discharge. our vote on wednesday is therefore an additional tool of parliament to oblige the college to provide evidence of its reliability. i would like to mention here the 610% increase in the complementary contributions to the decentralised agencies between 2000 and 2010. the total amount of their assets increased from eur 95 million to eur 579 million, while their staff increased by approximately 271%. in 2000, the agencies employed 1 219 people, compared with 4 794 today. as europe faces budgetary constraints that are reflected at national level, the rationalization of agencies in terms of competences, efficiency, evaluation of tasks must be put forward and parliament must make proposals. today, the relevance of cepol's existence in the present circumstances is being questioned. as policy makers, we must define european rules so that the budget allocated to community agencies is spent as efficiently as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as our discussions have shown, we all agree on one point: the more europe enlarges, the more its powers are extended, the more ambitious it is and the less resources it has to meet those ambitions. we all agree on the diagnosis, but we clearly do not agree on the solutions to be implemented to get out of this financial impasse. the provisional period has lasted and the union budget has become a prisoner of national contributions, which represent almost 75% of its resources. today, if it were decided to raise the expenditure ceiling to the maximum allowed by the treaties, this would represent an additional levy of more than five billion for countries such as france or germany. everyone here understands that it's not possible. it is not a question of adding rigorousness to rigorousness, because it is the citizens, and above all the poorest, who are paying the price for the consequences of these national austerity policies. the s&d group believes that the financial sector is primarily responsible for the crisis and the explosion in public debt, and proposes the creation of an own resources line, fuelled by a tax on financial transactions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a little over two years after the collapse of lehman brothers, parliament must not miss a historic opportunity to lay the foundations for a new model of development, based on more sustainable resources and, above all, on a fairer redistribution of wealth and solidarity. for the first budget to be voted on under the lisbon treaty, this would be a strong political signal from our parliament that it does not intend to use its new powers of codecision merely to deal with the shortage, that is to say to choose which of peter and paul should be undressed. to be able to increase the level of the union's budget tomorrow is to be able to pursue ambitious policies for recovery, research, industry and employment. we should not miss this meeting, which the european citizens are looking forward to and which financial operators are in any case expecting.
in writing. the school fruit scheme, which started at the beginning of the 2009 school year, is a concrete european initiative whose direct positive results for our citizens should be highlighted. we believe that supporting the funding of this programme is an effective way of investing in the health of europe's young people. the increase in childhood obesity is, unfortunately, alarming in europe. despite the increase in the cost of living, fruit consumption must remain the basis of the diet of children throughout the european union. it also protects against cardiovascular disease, cancer and diabetes by improving the nutritional quality of their food. the eu's school fruit scheme is an example of a europe that is close to the people, that is concerned with the daily challenges of its citizens, and i wish it a long life.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2011 budget is the first that this parliament is called upon to negotiate and vote on within the framework of its new powers under the lisbon treaty. it is the first for which we do not overbid the overall volume proposed by the commission and prefer a realistic and political approach. the commission's approach is realistic, since our member states are called upon to make unprecedented efforts to clean up and reduce their public finances. the epp group is the first to ask them to do so. reducing public expenditure is the first condition for our economies to become more competitive and to face global competition in good conditions. we cannot therefore ask the 27 member states to spend money for this budget year that is not part of the efforts made by our fellow citizens in their national context. but our approach is also political in that we consider the 2011 budget to be inseparable from the more general financial context of the coming years and, in particular, from the perspective of the next financial cycle 2014-2020. ladies and gentlemen, if there is one objective which our parliament must aim at during this parliamentary term, it is to ensure that european policies are financed to the full. it is not necessarily a question of asking for more money but of ensuring that the tasks entrusted to the european union can be carried out with the appropriate means. our states can even save money, reduce their contributions to the community budget, if they accept that europe changes its financial system, which is now obsolete, and benefits from its own resources. a euro spent at european level is more profitable, more productive than a euro spent at national level, since a european euro does not have to cover a deficit. at the national level, the euro is now worth half as much or less in some countries. and at national level, this euro, which has not yet been cut, is being returned in the form of cohesion funds, rural development or the promotion of innovation. i ask the council to give serious consideration to this new approach to european finances. i thank commissioner lewandowski for having already started this debate with our finance ministers. europeans have the right to know what their public authorities - local, regional, national or european - are spending. member states must be prepared to meet this challenge. mr president of the council, ministers, you hold in your hands the key to launching these discussions and negotiations to help all the european states to move forward, so that the euro that is at the level of brussels can return to the level of our fellow citizens in the member states, much more productive and creating new jobs at the level of europe. i beg you, you still have a chance. and as a christmas present, you must announce that the own funds and own resources of europe are beginning to be seriously discussed and seriously negotiated under your presidency. i assure you, we will be talking about it for a long time in history if we manage to do this.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, i should like to speak and not return to the debate as it has been held so far. we have discussed a 2011 budget with the constraints we know, namely those of a deep crisis that europe is going through with public deficits at national level that can lead to two hypotheses. either these public deficits at national level constrain the european deficit, or these deficits at national level must give a new direction and a new breath to europe as a whole. that's the question. and i ask you, commissioner, to try above all, when we are discussing a budgetary review, when we are going to start talking about the budgetary perspectives for the period after 2013, not to remain totally imbued with the context of the crisis, unless it is a matter of telling me and all the citizens of europe that, definitely, europe will remain in crisis for a long time. our whole problem is indeed to manage the crisis and reduce our deficits and debt, but it is also to prepare for the way out of the crisis. and that is where the budgetary question comes in. we will not be able to get out of the crisis, and joseph daul said so right away, unless the european budget, because it is european, is able to give us the means to recover what we are lacking today, namely growth, job creation, innovation and research. that is the point, and that is the point at which we must discuss the budget and not do as we do all too often, constantly incorporating the question of the crisis, the question of deficits, and that is where the council excels. i noted that in deauville angela merkel and nicolas sarkozy even announced in advance a reform of the treaties, without even discussing anything with mr van rompuy, to punish all the states which would not respect budgetary discipline tomorrow. that is where we are today at council level, whereas parliament is asking only one thing, and in particular the commission, to try to get the european project off the ground and that is through the budget. so you've noted a number of things that we agree on quite completely. there needs to be more flexibility. of course, we must find a way together to have a much more flexible budget, because this is a necessity, because europe's responsiveness is at stake. it is also, of course, a question of setting priorities and organising the efficiency of the european budget. we all agree that this is a necessity. but where we need to be clear with each other is that we need to have a timetable, we need to set goals together, the commissioner, it cannot be just words, commitments, texts which are very interesting and which i share almost 100 per cent. but now we must get down to the practical side and, in particular, to the essential question we are dealing with, namely the question of own resources. how can we ensure that we have resources of our own for europe tomorrow, or rather for all european citizens, and that we can all return to the path of growth and an even stronger path for the europe of tomorrow? it is up to you, commissioner, to make us ambitious proposals.
mr president, in december 2009 in geneva, the european union concluded agreements with latin american countries on bananas that significantly lowered customs duties. following these agreements, the european union has taken compensatory measures for the acp countries amounting to 190 million, if i am not mistaken. after 2009, new agreements were concluded between the european union and central american countries further reducing customs duties for these countries. the accompanying measures provided for in the amending budget do not take account of these new agreements. the acp states, however, estimated the necessary accompanying measures at well over 190 million. the amendment decision, in my view, must take account of the acp countries' request. as i myself am elected from a banana-producing constituency, i shall be very attentive to this decision of the amending budget.
mr president, a word on this communication from the commission. i do regret that, particularly on the expenditure side, we are rather timid in this communication. you know that in the committee on budgets we are asked not to be merely in a budget review but on the contrary to be in a real mid-term review, not for the sake of it but simply to analyse the structure of expenditure in the budget and draw the consequences of a number of these expenditure. you know, as i do, that there is a need to refocus on a number of cohesion policy expenditure, to focus on large industrial projects such as iter and others such as galileo, and also to preserve resources for agricultural policy. i think you're interesting, though, a little more daring on the recipes part. i do think that today we cannot talk about the european budget without opening up this debate on both own resources and communitization without mentioning a number of expenditure items. and i believe that this is an absolutely essential and fundamental issue for the future of the european union. i hope that together we can find solutions to better finance our priorities, whether in the field of youth, education or all the other priorities i have just mentioned, because we need to find together these high value-added expenditure so as to avoid a repetition of what is unfortunately happening at the moment in the external action service.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur, barbara weiler, on her work and the remarkable compromise reached with the council, whereas the commission's original proposal had major shortcomings. i would like to return to four important points made in this directive. firstly, i welcome the fact that equal treatment is guaranteed between the public and private sectors. the commission envisaged more severe sanctions for the public sector, even though the latter was acting in the public interest. this reflected a lack of knowledge of the reality of the public accounts situation in the member states and could result in a competitive disadvantage for public undertakings in a competitive situation. another step forward is the extension of the payment period to 60 days instead of 30 for public health services. the latter have complex budgetary procedures which impose on them longer payment periods for which they cannot be held responsible. as regards payment deadlines, it was also essential to prohibit unfair terms to the detriment of creditors in contracts between companies, as is often the case between a large group and an sme. finally, and this concerns mainly smes which are victims of late payment, the introduction of an interest rate of 8% in the event of late payment and of compensation to cover the costs of recovery may encourage these companies to seek redress. they have so far tended to avoid doing so at the risk of putting themselves in danger. i am therefore delighted to be able to vote for this text, which i hope will be a real step forward for the viability and health of european businesses, a step forward which is necessary for a more efficient but also fairer internal market.
in writing. i would like to thank mrs weiler for the quality of her report and the outcome of her negotiations with the council, since the first reading agreement takes up all the key points that the socialists and democrats defended and obtained in the vote in the imco committee. i am particularly pleased that private enterprise and public authorities are now on an equal footing. the commission's original proposal provided for much heavier penalties for public authorities - a difference in treatment which is totally unacceptable to our group since, unlike private companies, public authorities do not act in the interests of profit but in the general interest. the right of the creditor to obtain compensation for the costs of recovery is also a significant step forward, as many companies, especially smes, have so far refrained from claiming interest on arrears from their debtors simply because the cost of the necessary steps was greater than the financial benefits to be derived. finally, the maximum payment period of 30 days in the text seems to me to be a reasonable principle, given that a certain flexibility is allowed, particularly for public health establishments, which was a point particularly important to our group.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like first to express my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims and to all those who are affected by the industrial accident that occurred on 4 october in ajka, hungary. i also would like to recognise the decisive and effective actions of the hungarian authorities to contain the impact of the spill and its spread from the rivers torna and marcal downstream into the danube and into neighbouring countries, and also to prevent the risks of new spills by building additional protection walls. i had the opportunity to thank minister sándor pintér, the hungarian minister of the interior in charge of civil protection, for all the efforts of the various services involved and for the bravery and dedication of the first responders. i have just come back from the site of the accident where i witnessed both the catastrophic impact of the red sludge on people, homes, land and the ecology of the region, and the significant efforts of the hungarian response teams. while the causes of the disaster and its full impact are still under investigation, it is clear that the most severe damage is in the immediate vicinity of the accident and the directly affected human settlements, agricultural land and ecological systems. 7 000 inhabitants, mainly from the villages of koluntár and devecser, have been affected. nine people died and 130 have been injured, about 35 of them first responders. around 1 000 hectares of agricultural land and four natura 2000 sites have been affected, and there has been substantial damage to flora and fauna in the area. according to the information provided by the hungarian authorities, the red mud does not contain high concentrations of heavy metals and is therefore not considered as hazardous waste. nonetheless, dust from the sludge presents a health risk and therefore precautionary measures are necessary for the population and the emergency personnel in the area. the hungarian authorities have deployed massive human resources and equipment. the day i was there, yesterday, there were around 1 200 rescuers from the civil protection, environment, health and police departments working tirelessly on the ground. it is very important to stress that the emergency phase is broadly over now, because the damage downstream to the danube is stopped and the risk of a second spill contained. steps are now being taken towards the next phase of decontamination and rehabilitation. machinery and staff continue to work on the removal of the red sludge and its disposal in appropriate sites. houses and structures beyond repair are being demolished; protection dikes have been built to prevent the risk of a second spill and are being reinforced. monitoring is being carried out and information on precautionary and sanitary measures is being provided to the population. let me now turn to the eu response. on 7 october, the hungarian authorities triggered the civil protection mechanism requesting an eu expert team. it was deployed immediately for a week in the affected area. this team delivered a number of suggestions for measures to further enhance the hungarian government’s comprehensive remedial and recovery plan. these include: minimising the further spread of red mud via air and water; steps to assess the risk to human health and mitigate them; steps to assess the risk of further damage and mitigate them; environmental monitoring; and remediation and revitalisation measures. beyond this initial emergency response, the commission stands ready to deploy the civil protection mechanism to assist further with expertise, as well as equipment, if the hungarian authorities so require. secondly, the structural funds could be mobilised to address the consequences of the disaster, and that was made clear. the government was informed of that. if they were to decide they wanted to redirect funds, the commission would look favourably on such requests. thirdly, the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund is very unlikely to be possible in this case due to the strict conditions of the current regulation, under which only natural disasters can be considered; these conditions also include a 0.6% threshold of damage to gdp, and that is unlikely to be met. once again, the commission is very clearly concerned about the need to make the solidarity fund faster and expand its scope. it is very difficult to explain to citizens in member states why we can help people in pakistan immediately, but we cannot help the people living in the ajka area. the commission is also looking into the question of environmental legislation. at a first analysis, the existing eu waste legislation, the directive on waste from extractive industries, the upcoming industrial emissions directive replacing the integrated pollution prevention and control directive, the directive on the control of major accident hazards, the so-called seveso directive, and the waste framework directive provide a sufficient framework for regulating potentially dangerous industrial activities and managing waste in a way that does not pose risks to human health and the environment. the commission is of the view that the focus must not be on new legislation but on ensuring the proper implementation and enforcement of existing legislation by all member states. we also have environmental legislation that deals with post-accident damage, namely the environmental liability directive. it applies to the installation, and consequently the necessary remedial measures that have to be undertaken, by the liable operator who should bear the full cost of remediation. our report on the implementation of the environmental liability directive shows a rather slow take-up of the financial security instruments to cover for liabilities, and this is the case in ajka. we are considering how to strengthen this in the future and if necessary make this mandatory. following the ajka sludge accident, the commission will take stock of the lessons learnt at european level, and in particular the appropriateness and the correct implementation and enforcement of european environmental legislation; the measures needed to make sure that the affected population and industry at risk are covered by appropriate insurance schemes; and the way forward to strengthen european disaster monitoring and response capacity and enhance our instruments to express solidarity with our members and our citizens in moments of need. concerning this last point, i would like to mention that next week the commission will adopt the communication on the reinforcement of eu disaster response capacity which will address the response to various types of disasters, including industrial accidents, and will strengthen our capacity to respond collectively. i would like to take this opportunity to thank parliament for its strong support in this area of strengthening eu disaster response capacity. i look forward to hearing your questions on the specific case in hungary as well as any comments you might want to make on the broader issue.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, of course, our solidarity with the victims, but also the necessary reflections that such a disaster requires on our part. first of all, thank you, commissioner, for saying that there would be a communication next week on the conditions for emergency intervention, because it is a necessity and we must be able to come to the aid of our fellow citizens, whether it is natural or industrial disasters. on the other hand, i cannot be satisfied that this sludge, which is particularly toxic - we have seen images on television of people who have been burned because they have been in contact with this sludge - should be classified as inert waste. this is absolutely unacceptable and it is essential that the commission takes the initiative to review the list of hazardous waste, to include these sludges and at the same time to check whether other types of products could be included in this list. as regards the essential point of the actual application of community law, i think it is essential, madam commissioner, that the commission should have the means to ensure that community law is actually applied. it is not just a matter of transcribing directives, but of applying them in practice in all the undertakings of our community. to do this, you must have the means of control that you obviously do not have today. we do not need more rights, but we need the application of community law.
author. - madam president, madam commissioner, good evening to you. mrs reding, you were pleased today, and i think you were right to be pleased, that france has responded to the european commission's injunction, since it has delivered at the last minute its legislative plan to put in place the procedural guarantees as provided for in the freedom of movement directive. you considered that these guarantees were fair and that they allowed not to cancel, as you said, but to suspend the infringement procedure. we take note of this, but we would also like, as members of the european parliament, to be able to monitor these commitments and to know what the french authorities have promised and what the plan is for this. but everyone remembers that you also questioned france about border detention orders and the obligation to leave the territory to verify the non-discriminatory nature of these administrative documents. what's the matter with him? did you get a response? finally, after the new release in the press - as with the vicious and discriminatory august circular - of information on a file, on a computer database gathering personal data mentioning ethnic or racial origins, does this new case in the case not begin to undermine your trust in the loyalty of the french authorities and their information? mrs reding, do you not think it is important today to continue and tell us what the analysis is, since the analysis is continuing, on the basis of the documents you asked for concerning the possibility of infringement for discrimination, discriminatory practice in france but also, as we see here, for infringement of the protection of personal data, as provided for in our community law? i believe that today the citizens of europe are entitled to expect a responsible commission that celebrates its successes but also shows its determination and perseverance in its action towards the french authorities, as you do more broadly towards the member states of the european union which, as is very widely documented, have adopted bad habits towards the roma. i should also say that as far as the files are concerned, the french national commission for information technology and freedom itself has established the existence of four illegal files which document personal data, including the characteristics of the manuche, gypsy or roma people in the files.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i believe it is against human rights that we are sitting here so late at night discussing important subjects which we should really discuss during the day and not in the middle of the night when normal human beings should relax at home and go to sleep. having said that, there have been many debates, many scandals and many actions in the last weeks, and i think this parliament should look at what has happened in france and the reaction in the european commission to what was some kind of a historical event. there has never been, so far, in the history of our european union, a court case started because of rights. we have started court cases because of commerce, because of the economy, because of finance, but this is the first time, on the basis of the treaty of lisbon and on the basis of the charter of fundamental rights which is included in this treaty of lisbon, that the commission has said enough is enough. the commission decided – all 27 commissioners – on 29 september to start infringement proceedings against france on the basis of non-implementation of those rights of the human being, the rights of the individual citizen. i do not need to tell you all the pressures which have occurred since that moment, but the commission said unanimously that it will start court procedures and will put an ultimatum to france. if france has not answered in a positive, acceptable way before 15 october, this court procedure is going to be implemented. that is the normal way we proceed with all member states. now, what has happened? well, france has given an answer. and this was the first time, it was unique in terms of the way questions are handled, and i believe personally that it was the first moment of the european of the citizens. let historians one day look at that. we are in the middle of the proceedings, we are in the middle of the fight, so we might see it from a different point of view. now objectively, what has france done? france has done exactly what the commission has asked it to do. under the 2004 directive, there are material rights, we also call them procedural rights, which exist for the sake of protecting citizens against an unacceptable action by the authorities when they are imprisoned. and these procedural rights have not been implemented in french law. so we said to france: by 15 october we need to know the ways in which you intend to change french law implementing the 2004 procedural rights and showing us a credible timetable of how you are going to introduce that into french law. well, we got it. we got it one hour before the end of the deadline, but we got it. since 08.00 on saturday morning my experts have been looking at the papers and i have come to the conclusion today that all the points on the basis of law which the commission asked for from france have been answered – though of course not yet applied in national french law, because first they have to go to the senate and then be introduced de facto into french law and applied in real terms. we decided we are happy with what the french authorities gave us, but we cannot close the case, because these promises, these elements of law, these proposed laws are not yet implemented. so we have said that we are freezing the case, but are leaving it open. we are leaving it open until the moment the french government has really applied this legislation de facto in day-to-day proceedings. that is one thing that i think is some kind of a victory. think about everything which has happened. now the french will say there is no problem, there never has been any problem. well, there was a problem and they are bringing us the law which they are going to change. let us see if they do it. i believe they are going to do it. there was a second question and that is how the individuals were treated during the summer period, and whether they had procedural guarantees as individuals, as european citizens, or were discriminated against. why did i not start infringement proceedings like those we started on the basis of the laws? simply because if we want to act, we can only act on the basis of legal evidence. we cannot act just because we have a feeling, because we are persuaded something is wrong. we have to have the legal proof and that is why we have asked the french government to supply us with the dossiers on the individuals. now we have got dossiers on individuals, several piles of them. my experts are analysing those and they have told me they will certainly have supplementary questions to the french government, and they think they will finish this analysis with answers from the government in four weeks’ time. so, as of today, we have these two cases. this is, i think, a very important fact because i would also like to tell members very frankly that the implementation of the 2004 directive on free movement is not brilliant. what we are seeing now, because the commission has been strong, is that all the countries who are not perfect either – not imperfect to the extent of france, but not perfect – are starting to say that they are now going to implement it perfectly. so something has happened. i think that all europe has understood that we are not joking any more and that the rights of the individual, of our citizens, and the values of our society must be handled seriously. that is enough about the french question, because a decision has been taken by the commission on that matter, but it is not finished and is still an open procedure. now to the question on the database allegedly held by the french gendarmerie and possibly containing ethnic elements. first, the commission is closely following developments in these matters. we have again been given assurances by the french authorities that everything is all right, but a different system applies here, because there is a french law here on data protection and the handling of data which is checked in accordance with our rules by the french data protection authority cnil. it is in line with the rules that cnil has carried out an inspection and made a preliminary public report last week. you have seen cnil’s results. i have read them too. the way it is reported sometimes in the press is not complete, because cnil has also said, very seriously, that there might not be ethnic elements, but there are certainly databases which have not been authorised by the authorities. as regards compliance with eu legislation, the information provided has to make sure that the situation is covered by the data protection directive. this might be the case only for immigration-related purposes. for immigration, there are a series of guarantees and safeguards which apply to what we call ‘sensitive data’. sensitive data can only be processed in exceptional cases, in cases of public interest; they are subject to suitable safeguards, and those suitable safeguards have to be provided by the country concerned. should the data processing not come under the data protection directive, then the 2008 framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters could apply. there we still have a problem because this framework directive applies only as from 27 november this year. so, on the basis of this directive, the powers of the commission are rather limited. i will answer the very concrete questions which have been asked in addition to the french case. are there other member states where we could verify the possible existence of databases containing data on ethnic or racial origins? under the data protection directive, the processing of such sensitive data is authorised by way of exception and has to be notified to the national data protection authorities. the data protection authority in france is cnil. and these exceptions for reasons of substantial public interest also need to be notified to the commission. when such notification is made, the national data protection authority and the commission are in a position to assess if the measures are in line with data protection rules, and here we have the result of the preliminary analysis by cnil which clearly says that such authorisations have not been asked for. so, we should allow the judicial work in france to be done by the judicial authorities which are not just authorised, but also responsible, for doing this kind of work. what about the netherlands? there were several databases where the processing of sensitive data was provided for and was notified by the netherlands to the commission in 2005 and 2006. the most controversial database related to criminal activities of youngsters of caribbean origin. this database has since been deleted. recently, one municipality in the netherlands planned to create an ethnic file, but it cancelled its project in response to the recommendation of the dutch data protection authority. this shows that the system under the directive – whereby the data protection authorities, the national data protection authorities, are responsible – works. by the way, i would like to tell parliament that i am working on the reform of the data protection directive, partly with the aim of reinforcing the independence and the intervention opportunities of the national data protection authorities within a european framework. that will have to be that for the time being: i have to shorten my speech because there is no interpretation after 24.00, so let us cut it off there.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs reding, i am very pleased to note that today you have informed us that the college of commissioners does not wish to bring legal proceedings against france in respect of directive 2004/38, but i asked you a question some time ago in the libe committee and i have already told you that france gave you all the information in 2006 and 2007, as well as the correlation tables on the transposition of directive 2004/38. but you wonder now, in 2010, how much procedural safeguards are lacking. you have not answered me, and i would like to have an answer to that question today, mrs reding. as for the mens file, i'd like to tell you something. i think that now the polemic is beginning to suffice with the opposition and with a number of people. the lack of foundation for these allegations is very easy to demonstrate. you have the findings of the report that the cnil gave to the prime minister. i assume that you have also received, since i was the addressee, mrs reding, the report of the director-general of the national gendarmerie, and you have mentioned a number of things which clearly do not seem to suit you. you are defending human rights, but you must not only defend the rights of minorities. all human rights must be defended, and we are all respectable. in france, we are respectable too, and i can guarantee you that this mens file never existed. the cnil has searched, mrs reding, for a number of terrible keywords such as gypsies, manouches, roma, etc. and the cnil has found nothing in the national gendarmerie file. the only thing we can blame on the national gendarmerie file is that they didn't declare these files, but the files are not genealogical files. the national gendarmerie has a number of files which... i would like to conclude, please, i am the only speaker from the epp, so i would still like to be able to speak on behalf of my group. these files include people who are homeless and without a fixed residence, and they have no ethnic character. so i would like, even if there was a lack of declaration to the cnil, that you could at least acknowledge, please, that there is no... (exclamation) but if it is true, and i would like you to acknowledge it. and i would like, mrs. reding, that you stop your suspicion of the french government, it's starting to get unhealthy.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ethnic profiling is not a new practice in the member states but it seems to have intensified in recent years under the pretext of counter-terrorism operations, policing or the fight against illegal immigration. the recent revelation of the existence of a file on roma and travellers in france demonstrates the urgency of the commission's further investigation in order to gather additional information on the existence of these databases and to verify their legality in the light of the principle of non-discrimination. i do not entirely share your enthusiasm for the french response a few days ago, but i do understand that you are expressing it in this way. you say that france has said that it will transpose the directive on free movement and that it will give a timetable. on this famous directive and its transposition, one of two things: either france has simply given a formal undertaking, which means that the commission has not received a reply and has passed the baton, or france has given a concrete reply and in this respect we would like to be able to benefit from it and know it because you spoke of a timetable in your speech, this timetable is in progress for transposition. france is currently transposing the free movement directive through its fifth reform of the immigration code in seven years. and i can assure you that it goes beyond the european principles of free movement. so i think you will have to watch this as well with the utmost seriousness. finally, i hope that the commission will not give in to the principle of non-discrimination and will not be seduced by friendly solutions or mere promises, even from the french government.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, although it is very late, the debate this evening is a somewhat passionate fight. this morning, again despite the very clear explanations you gave us, we discovered a new french news website which turned out to contain a rom file, obviously clandestine, with a very rich, very detailed database containing names, first names, nicknames, people's lineages, their associations, the registration and model of their car, the name of the spouse, and again, we maintained that we did not know of the existence of such files. in the end, whether the specific information on this site is proven or not, it does not change the fundamentally discriminatory risk induced by these files that would exist in france and in several other european countries. so, commissioner, given your explanations and the determination we know you have, what do you intend to do and what other evidence do we need to have to act and react on the basis of a breach of non-discrimination? in other words, let us try to respect the law both in france and in the other member states of the union, and let us try to respect the law in those countries which are not passionate about our european democracy. the expulsions in france this summer, the circular of 5 august which was fortunately withdrawn, the mens file, and so on. we have listened with great interest to your reasoning this evening, and today we are hearing that you have considered the guarantees given by france at the end of last week to be sufficient to amend national law in order to apply the european legislation of 2004. i would like, like my colleagues, to have the contents of these documents, so that we can share the same reasoning and the same will to respect the rule of law again, because it has been suggested here and there since your statement this afternoon that you have capitulated. to conclude this long polemic, it will have had one advantage, namely that it will have shown us that we must first of all get to the heart of the problem, by encouraging more national efforts, european policies within the framework of respect for the law which underpins our european democracy.
madam president, you are saying to us today, mrs reding, with a certain enthusiasm, and i quote you, that france's position shows the proper functioning of the eu as a community of law or, i quote again, that we must now move towards concrete actions and results on the basis of our european values. i hold in my hands the consolidated treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, and allow me not to share your enthusiasm entirely. what evidence does the commission need to go further? what evidence is needed to condemn the discriminatory treatment and expulsions of roma in france and other european countries? the commission has certainly increased its efforts to promote the integration of the roma, and i am thinking here of the use of the structural funds. but following an ostrich policy, i ask myself: is the commission not shooting itself in the foot?
madam president, mrs reding, i too am disappointed this evening. i think that many of us have taken note of your previous statements and have even supported you. we understood that the procedure for free movement was only suspended. but today's topic is discrimination. you want proof, mrs reding, and you ask the french government and the french government alone. you tell us, you tell us, every time we ask you. i must say, madam commissioner, that i am ending at the end - excuse me, with all due respect - by wondering if you are not making a little joke of us. this weekend, i was in marseille. i met with the associations that work with the roma. i have been working on these cases for many years and i must admit that i was appalled, madam commissioner, by what they told me about the situation of the roma in the marseille area. the roma, madame, in france, are afraid, they hide. they don't dare leave their makeshift camps. their children don't dare go to school anymore. the associations can no longer find them to provide social and health monitoring. that is what the associations are saying, commissioner. this is the situation of roma in france today. the mens file. let's stop dwelling on this mens file. the gendarmerie announced that they were removing it. but read carefully what the cnil opinion says and you will see, madam commissioner, that ethnic origin is mentioned in the checks carried out by the cnil. then ask for those checks. the cnil is an unquestionable organization. ask for all the checks that were carried out by the cnil and... (the president cut the speaker off)
i'm the reporter. - mr president, mr president of the commission, mr representative of the council, the financial, economic and social crisis which the world has been experiencing for several years now is going to cost 60 trillion dollars worldwide, or one point of annual growth. we have to. it will result in an unemployment rate in our european union of 11% by the end of the year. it is translated into the moment when the currency war is awakened by a risk of recession and a situation in w, as our economists call it. in the face of this situation, i have felt a sense of responsibility in this parliament to send a strong message to the other institutions, to the commission and to the council, to say that we must rethink the added value of the european project, and that this is summed up in a few words: we have a collective responsibility and we must, at the level of the european union, implement a strategy that allows us, in the field of energy, to be strong inside in order to be strong outside. we must rely on our own strengths and for that we need the european level. but, mr president of the commission, economic governance is not a vision for us. it is a means to that end. and around that strategy, we define the means. first of all, it is a financial means. this is the challenge of bringing the revision of the financial perspective into line with this mobilization around a strategy for a european energy community. it is the need to mobilise a proposal which you reject: taxation of financial transactions. it is the need to launch a large european loan to finance long-term investments. it is the need to rebalance taxation in europe so that it is more favourable to labour, employment and less to capital, and that it is environmentally friendly. it is the need to coordinate the budgets of the member states with the european project so that efforts are convergent. in terms of governance, we propose the creation of a 'monsieur euro' which will effectively make it possible to have a harmonious, balanced economic governance. we also propose that we should not concentrate on the situation of the deficit countries alone but balance it with the situation of the surplus countries. we also propose that in a single monetary area debt should also be managed as a common good and that we should consider mutual debt issues. we want the financial reform on which you are working so hard, mr president of the commission, to be organised around the needs of europeans and not just the objectives of financial stability. we want a reform of the financial markets which brings back to life the notions of ethics and moral value, which is useful for job creation and long-term investment. no european project can be made against the member states. the only way for the european union to assert its best is to make the member states want to do it, and it is not by having a debate solely around the sanctions that you will make the europeans want to get involved with their member states in the project. what we are asking for is a strong mobilisation around the added value of the european project to get europeans out of this crisis and to ensure that tomorrow everyone in europe will have a job, will be able to get out of poverty and will be able to trust the european project again. that's our ambition. i hope, mr president of the commission, that you will share it and take up many of the proposals we are making here on behalf of the whole house. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the common thread between the european council and the g20 meetings is the need to make the necessary adjustments after the financial crisis. for the european union, these adjustments consist in putting our public finances, both national and community, in order and in defending our currency, the euro. by consolidating it internally and defending its value against other major currencies, the european council will be dominated by the debate on europe's economic and financial governance. the ppe group welcomes the first steps taken by the van rompuy task force, which in particular envisages a system of sanctions for states which do not comply with the criteria of the stability pact. but the work still needs to be deepened, and this in the sense of more community methods and less intergovernmental methods. i welcome the work done by the commission in this respect. i would like to say to the council that it must not forget that this parliament is now a co-legislator, that it will play its full part in defining the reforms to come. the more this parliament is involved upstream, the better chance we have of getting things done satisfactorily and quickly. i ask president van rompuy to hear this message. ladies and gentlemen, europe must make its voice heard in the debate on the relative value of currencies and the european council next week must define our position on this matter before the g20 in seoul. europe, together with its partners, particularly the united states, must put the emerging countries in front of their responsibilities. monetary dumping and its social consequences can no longer be tolerated. the seoul summit will focus on three major issues: reform of the international monetary system, stability of raw materials, particularly food and energy, and global governance. on each of these issues, europe has a message to deliver, but this message will only be credible if we put in place effective internal community instruments for the governance and management of our public finances. ladies and gentlemen, we will only be able to influence global governance, to have a real presence on the international scene, if we make this often unpopular effort to clean up our finances and if we stick to our priorities: the fight against global warming or development policy. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr guy is tired of it, he has found something, he is tired of it today, but his speech was as good as schulz's. i have an idea, too. you all know the movie "jules and jim". so there is a woman, mrs. merkel. jules, we know who it is. it's sarko. the problem is, who is jim? is it cameron or barroso? that is the problem for the commission. today, i believe that parliament and the commission must speak frankly to each other because today the council and - he is right on this point - the franco-german directorate have a community policy. it is a policy which does not reflect the essence of the european union and our role today, beyond the differences between us - and joseph daul is right about this - is to save the european union and the community method. and for that, the commission, parliament and ourselves, whether one or the other, must understand that in this game no one wins unless we find a common line of action between the commission and parliament, parliament or the commission. mr barroso, i believe you when you say that you want a tax on financial transactions or financial activities. that's not the problem. the question is how to do it. it's not enough to say, "i want to". this is my son, who, at four years old, says, "i want to". the problem is how to achieve our aim, and i do not think that the commission should ask, as the environment council does, for yet another study to determine whether climate degradation is really such that it is appropriate to increase the co2 reduction of the european union - which it did yesterday, when it is completely absurd to ask for a new study. no, a thorough study of financial transactions and a taxation of these transactions, would that be beneficial for europe? a 0.01% tax on financial transactions is worth €80 billion. if you cut the national contribution by 30 billion, which means cutting national budgets, you get another 50 billion for the european budget. 120 billion minus 30 is 90 plus 50 is 140. so the european policies that are needed after the lisbon treaty, well we can put them in place; the united states and europe are winning. but that requires that we have a european view. and secondly, mr barroso, on the deficits, i would point out to you and to parliament that there is a deficit and a deficit. it's like cholesterol, there's a positive marker and a negative marker. a deficit which invests, which therefore gives prospects to a country, to europe, is not a negative thing. if you invest, as we did, in industries of yesterday that are unproductive - i'm talking about coal, where investing in something is like destroying money, because it's useless - you lose money. if we invest in the energy of tomorrow, in the production of tomorrow, we win. so what we have to do, and i ask the liberals to do it, is not just to say 'stability, stability', but also to differentiate between what we have to do and what we have to stop doing. not just say "deficit", but say "this is unproductive and this is productive". if we agree, if we succeed - and it will be difficult - in reaching an agreement, we will have the opportunity to oppose the council's constant manipulations. the problem today is that many governments want to reduce the political dimension of europe, and our role is to defend and increase the political dimension of europe because without that we will not succeed. we have a common interest, mr barroso, but we must go all the way. we must not shake up parliament but the european council.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i understand correctly, mr barroso, we are starting from a totally opposite analysis, since you said that the crisis was behind us, whereas our group of the united left considers that it is getting worse. to solve it, you advocate austerity with the stability pact, and now the tightening of sanctions. i believe that the opposite should be done with improvements in pay, new taxation that is favourable to labour and taxation of financial transactions, improvements in social protection, the defence of public services and a strong employment policy. i am afraid that your strategy is leading the european union into a wall. do you not hear the force of popular protests throughout the european union? for the sixth day, yesterday, millions of people marched in france, supported by 70% of the population. don't you see the danger that threatens us today? the european idea, because it is based on competition, on full free trade, is crashing against the wall of money in economic wars and now in monetary war. why not consider a new system, a human and social development fund in place of the stability pact, linked to the european central bank which, through monetary creation, should be able to refinance the debt of the states, to refinance the national banks, on the basis of interest rates which would be favourable to social criteria? the european union must also take the initiative, in my view, of a new world monetary order, starting with the chinese proposal for a common international currency for trade, as thailand and brazil have done. why should europe not introduce a currency tax, first of all to limit monetary tensions? mr president of the commission and mr president of the council, i believe that it is time to think of new initiatives and to listen to the people.
mr president, mr barroso and mr rehn, i really hope you will look at the work of the european parliament on the subjects we are dealing with today, the berès report and the feio report, because, of course, we are now in a co-legislating framework on economic governance and i can honestly tell you that we have made an effort, with at least four pro-european political groups in this parliament, to work on compromises that are dynamic compromises. we're getting out of the discussion that's causing the problems. on the one hand, we talk about the budget, on the other, we talk about taxation, on the other, we talk about governance. the challenge today is that the commission - it is your role to do this, we are trying to do this, you are also trying to do this - proposes an overall package which is somewhat in the spirit of the monti report, which is in line with what michel barnier is also trying to do in the context of the internal market. i am waiting for mr barroso's overall package, which will have to say how we are going to get out of the crisis, not just on macroeconomic governance, but how we read three or four macroeconomic, fiscal and budgetary dossiers and say: 'this is the package'. i am sure that if you do that, you will have a very large majority to support this initiative in the european parliament. because if we stick to the question of public finances alone, for example, you yourself, your services, two or three years ago, said that spain was the country which was most respectful of the stability and growth pact. the spanish public finances were in order. the problem is that the imbalances came from elsewhere and now spain is in a terrible situation. it's the same for ireland. it is clear that focusing on public finances alone will not solve the crisis. and the compromises we have made in the various reports which are being tabled today and which will be voted on tomorrow are precisely the sum of these problems, and a way of saying that yes, we must strengthen budgetary discipline. of course i did. but if we are to prevent this strengthening of budgetary discipline from leading to social unrest, only to cuts in public expenditure, we must have a european budget package to finance investment and a fiscal package to enable the member states to raise a certain number of taxes. my last question, mr rehn, and especially mr barroso, is therefore: are you really in favour of the consolidated corporate tax base, are you really in favour of it? this project has been in the commission's drawers for ten years, and you have been preventing it from coming out for ten years. do it now. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, in 1968 the friends of our colleague mr cohn-bendit wrote on the walls of paris: 'words, not deeds'. today, the demand of the citizens is the opposite: actions, not words. we hear a lot of words, but our fellow citizens don't see results. the european union's reaction time is not up to the standards we have to meet. we must make progress together in a spirit of community. i would like to mention the role of our parliament in this respect. here too, efforts must be made to respect the principle of codecision. the president of the commission has thanked parliament on several occasions for its support, but parliament is not here to play the secondary role of mere support or to ratify without having the opportunity to discuss the decisions taken by the council. it is on an equal footing with the council, and we must now be aware of this, and the debate on economic governance will be a test in this respect. finally, as regards the next g20, the european union must make sure that this international body plays the role it is expected to play and does not indulge in empty speeches.
mr president, i should like to make a few remarks on the franco-german proposals. i think we have to finally react positively. we often say that since 2007 we have no longer had a franco-german engine and at the same time we must regret that these franco-german proposals have finally a slave-like side for france, since these proposals are made to avoid france, given its poor financial and economic health, from being in a difficult situation. and then it must also be noted that in these proposals there is no positive proposal, as the berès report has done, to make it possible to have real economic governance within the european union.
mr president, i should like to focus on the preparations for the next g20 summits. everything has been said by previous speakers on european economic governance, on the need to strengthen european economic governance, to strengthen the stability and growth pact, and to involve the european parliament and of course also the national parliaments in the process. i would like to mention briefly two challenges facing our nations and the members of the g20 which, in my view, should be addressed at the forthcoming g20 meetings. the challenge of currency war and the challenge of commodity price volatility. i believe that on these two subjects, which are real threats to global growth and cause very important imbalances on our planet, the european union must be able to organise itself, to adopt common positions, to give itself the means to speak with one voice at the next g20 summit, that of seoul, but also at those that will follow, and more generally on the world stage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate our colleague, mr diogo feio, on the quality of the report and the ambitious proposals it contains. it also shows that the european parliament is taking its full part in a debate which is decisive for the future of europe, and we can only welcome that. the greek crisis has also revealed the dysfunctions undermining the economic governance of the european union. so i take note of mr feio's proposal to establish a permanent mechanism for financial stability. we also have to address the root of the problem. i believe that the solution to this also lies in strengthening the stability and growth pact and, in particular, the sanctions. this is essential if we want to achieve a lasting improvement in the budgetary position of the member states, which is not always popular. it's a legal requirement, but we have no choice.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i thank my colleagues for their speeches and contributions. i'd like to bounce back on a couple of them. first to mr. zīle. i think what he said is very important when we are going to reform cohesion policy. we must take stock of this cohesion policy, and see whether, in the years since accession, the bet that internal imbalances could be partly corrected by the operation of these funds has proved correct, and we must take an objective stocktaking to draw lessons for tomorrow. many colleagues - and i thank them for this - have spoken on the question of the representation of the european union and global governance. this is a very strategic point for our european union, again at a time when the currency war seems ready to break out. we need to unite the voices of europeans inside and outside the union. based on our inner strength, let us be strong and united on the outside in our representations. and then, echoing what my colleague robert goebbels said, yes, the g20 is not the solution we ultimately aspire to for global governance, where everyone can have a place and which allows for the arbitration bodies we need. it is in keeping with the speech made yesterday by the secretary-general of the united nations that we must find ways of moving forward within the united nations, by means of a profound reform of this body and its governance. finally, mr president, i would like to conclude this debate by repeating what my colleague mr lamberts said about public investment. in our report we ask the commission to examine annually the needs for public and private investment and to provide us with a scoreboard that will enable us to have a long-term investment strategy for employment, and therefore for european citizens, a strategy based on the sustainability of our vision and a concept of solidarity which is at the heart of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the financial, economic and social crisis has now been raging for two years. this translates into an unemployment rate of over 10% in the eu and a risk of a new recession. it's a crisis that we can't control. the next g20 summit will be held in seoul on 11 and 12 november, under the french presidency. the g20 was a project of president sarkozy, who considers that today the world economy is no longer governed by the 8, but also by all the major emerging countries. this framework allows for a long-term vision of ambition. the crisis calls for real economic governance, rules to limit social dumping in developing countries, financial regulation, reform of the international monetary system. to do this, europe must speak with one voice, strong and determined.
mr president, we discussed amendments last night in the group which the services told us were not acceptable. following this and the discussion i had with the heads of delegation and the heads of group this morning, i ask that the vote on the calendar be postponed.
in writing. last wednesday we approved the revision of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission; the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. these new powers of the european parliament are essential and mark a radical change in the european institutional procedure. the strengthening of parliamentary control over the commission, parliament's power to approve international agreements, parliament's participation in the commission's work programme and parliament's participation in the election of the president of the european commission are all major developments in the construction of a more democratic european area. what i also think is fundamental is the additional guarantees we get in terms of the obligation to inform parliament: we will have better access to confidential documents relating to international agreements and negotiations. the european parliament should and must be involved in these 'international procedures', both upstream and downstream. this agreement thus establishes a new balance for a more democratic european area and it is good that all this is laid down in a formal agreement.
in writing. the revision of the framework agreement, approved by a large majority, marks an undeniable step forward in relations between the european parliament and the commission. it is time to reflect rigorously the institutional balance established by the lisbon treaty. among the key elements of this revision, equal treatment between parliament and the council, particularly as regards the exchange of information and access to meetings, should be welcomed. in this respect, i can only welcome the provisions introduced concerning the negotiation of international agreements. how can parliament give its informed consent if it is not informed throughout the negotiation procedure? and meps are indeed determined to make full use of the increased powers they have since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty: i want to see this as evidenced by the rejection of the swift agreement last february. one thing is certain, and that is that we must remain vigilant in order to maintain this new institutional dynamic.
in writing. following the establishment of the european external action service, it was necessary to amend the financial regulation in order to improve the control and monitoring of the implementation of the eeas. the grässle-rivellini report strengthens budgetary and financial accountability, improves transparency and promotes the efficiency of the eeas. the proposed improvements will help to establish a culture of financial integrity necessary to build confidence in the smooth functioning of the eeas. i also welcome the elements in the report which call for strong scrutiny by parliament. i therefore join the rapporteurs in asking that parliament be able to exercise its full right of discharge and that the heads of delegation present their reports on budget implementation to the committee on budgets.
in writing. the european external action service (eeas) is now on track to become a functioning diplomatic corps. parliament has obtained 60% of its staff from the other european institutions, which will ensure a certain degree of independence from the member states. the principle of geographical balance was introduced to ensure an appropriate and significant presence of nationals from all member states. this vote has strengthened the role of the parliament: the heads of the european union delegations appointed in strategically important regions will be heard by the parliament's foreign affairs committee. in addition, parliament will have a say in the use of the eeas budget and its officials will have to undergo specific training on budget management.
in writing. the european parliament was asked to give its opinion on the draft legislative resolution tabled by ingeborg gräßle and crescenzio rivellini on the establishment of a general budget of the european communities for the european external action service. it is impossible to support the establishment of the future community diplomacy which will be under the administrative, budgetary and political supervision of the commission. france, which boasts the world's oldest diplomacy, will still have to relinquish diplomatic prerogatives to a european union whose citizens are completely indifferent to taking a stand. this diplomacy, which the european commission has so ardently desired, will be a complete break with national heritages. the eeas officials will not be able to take instructions from the member states and will have to work for the 'superior' general interest of a european union which is a reference point only for the eurocrats themselves.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are firmly opposed to the creation of a european external action service. foreign affairs, diplomacy, are matters of national sovereignty. and that is why we voted against all the reports on this subject. a common foreign policy pursued in the sole interest of the european union will inevitably come to conflict with the fundamental interests of one, several or all the member states. on the occasion of a conflict in which countries are drawn against the will of their citizens. the promotion of a policy which is particularly hostile or particularly favourable to a country or group of countries, against the age-old traditions of certain diplomacies or the vital interests of certain members. but worse still, the treaties already provide that all this will be subject to other commitments and constraints, even wider and even global: nato, the un, who knows? so it is not even strong and independent diplomacy that is being offered to us, it is an instrument of submission to foreign leadership on our continent.
in writing. the banana sector is vital to some regions of the eu, particularly the octs, and in the face of competition from latin american countries exacerbated by agreements under negotiation, parliament has adopted financing measures to help this fragile sector. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. this is a strong signal from parliament to the commission and the council, which had only 18.3 million in the budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. the 190 million pledged for the period 2010-13 will have to be financed by new funds, as parliament will demand in the new financial perspective.
in writing. i voted in favour of the budget amendment which sets aside part of the 2011 budget of the european police college. i welcome the vote in plenary, which, by 611 votes to 38, with 6 abstentions, strengthens parliament's position on cepol. parliament will release the appropriations from this reserve if it receives satisfactory information from the agency on the follow-up to the 2008 discharge. these demands are clear: to inform parliament of the results of the olaf investigation, to publish the list of members of the administrative council, to provide a final report by an external auditor on the appropriations used to finance private expenditure and to make changes in the administrative council so that this situation does not happen again in the future. i very much hope that cepol will react quickly and that it will show its willingness to cooperate fully with parliament.
in writing. this budget does not meet the needs of the european union to emerge from the crisis, create recovery and fulfil its solidarity responsibilities. i regret that the socialist group's proposal to create an own resources line, supported by a tax on financial transactions, was simply rejected by the epp. this inconsistency between the right-wing speeches and actions is scandalous insofar as the right-wing has been explaining for months to the citizens and in the media that it is in favour of such a tax; but when it comes to choosing, and the european parliament has the power to do so, it is the commission itself which buries the proposal. as europe grows and the powers it has been given expand, the resources at its disposal are diminishing. this is a bad sign for the recovery of growth and employment in europe in general and for european citizens in particular.
in writing. we have just adopted the 2011 budget requested by the european parliament. this vote has enabled us to reiterate our priorities for the poorest, for whom a budget of 100 million has been requested, and for the milk producers, for whom we also want the milk fund to continue. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund to include the following areas: finally, we want the european budget to be able to have its own resources and a financial transaction tax to be finally introduced.
in writing. at a time when states, local authorities, taxpayers and businesses are making financial efforts, the union cannot exempt itself from this virtuous process. the excessive increase in the community budget, which some people want, is unacceptable. but this is not the time to cut back on strategically essential expenditure, such as the cap, which provides us with food independence and a source of exports (and thus enrichment). on the other hand, it would be appropriate to examine the payment exemptions which some states enjoy for historical reasons and which no longer have any reason to exist today. the idea of a european tax cannot be considered in the present context: first, the tax burden within the member states must be reduced.
in writing. european parliament gives its opinion on the draft legislative resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011. the european parliament's examination of the general budget of the european union is always an opportunity to see more clearly the expansion of the union's powers over the years and, as a result of the communication of vessels, the loss of sovereignty of the member states. this report is indicative of the tax burden that will be placed on taxpayers. even though the citizens' disillusionment with the european union is clear, the latter is still increasing its budget by 6% to finance the policies it has arrogated to itself. why this increase when 10 to 15% of the resources are not being used and the commission is demanding rigor in all the member states?
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon entered into force on 1 december last. it gives the european union new powers, and therefore new opportunities to spend money. almost no one here has the decency to point out how scandalous it is to ask for an increase in the resources allocated to the european union or the creation of a new tax, while member states are being asked to pursue austerity policies and to cut back on social protection. in france, the direct cost to europe is enormous: 8 billion euros net per year, and rising steadily. so much of the deficit in social security, for example. and an even greater indirect cost, in terms of unemployment, weak growth, relocations, etc., linked to european policies. the european budget is not a complement to national budgets, it is a predator and competitor. with the co-financing systems for structural policies, which are nothing but a clientelist smear, it is also an incentive to spend. the european court of auditors has not been able to approve the commission's management of these tens of billions of euros for 15 years. i think it's time we put an end to all this.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's resolution on the draft general budget of the eu for 2011. if we are to be able to take on the political priorities of the european union, the new expenditure made necessary by the economic crisis and the new powers brought about by the lisbon treaty, we must support an ambitious draft budget, capable of making the necessary investments to improve employment, to return to sustainable growth, in short a budget that is up to the standards of the europe we want. the council would like to see the union budget reduced, as the member states are faced with large deficits. that is why we have introduced a new line for the union's own resources, since the budget can no longer be so heavily dependent on national contributions. we regret that the amendment calling for the introduction of a financial transaction tax has once again been rejected by the right.
in writing. extended maternity leave, improved working conditions... women were at the heart of the debate in the european parliament today! eighteen years after the first directive on pregnant workers, young mothers and/or women breastfeeding, the economic and demographic situation in europe has changed! today we therefore voted in plenary to adapt the current legislation on maternity leave; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to promote women's employment while allowing them to have a family in the best possible conditions. we are now advocating for all european women to be able to reconcile family and professional life, but also to achieve the objectives of gender equality! the european parliament has voted by a majority for 20 weeks of leave with full pay. we will therefore have to negotiate with the member states to find a compromise position on this text.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has made progress on this issue since the debate on the demographic challenge for which i was rapporteur in 2007. this vote shows that it is still possible today to achieve new social gains: mobilization and political action can protect the benefits of past victories, but also obtain new rights! today we have strengthened the rights of women, but also men, with paternity leave. the latter represents a real change in attitudes which, over the years, will contribute to improving the distribution of parental roles.
in writing. france is one of the countries with the highest birth rate in the union. this is due to a set of provisions included in a comprehensive family policy. as the resolution is presented after the amendments have been voted, it does not bring about any real improvement but, on the contrary, will lead to doubts because the budgetary weight of the measures cannot be increased at the moment. these are the reasons why i do not approve this text, which is a very good one.
in writing. the vote on the estrela report on the rights of pregnant women and young mothers at work will make it possible to harmonise the duration of maternity leave and its remuneration to a minimum. the european parliament has chosen to have a strong negotiating position with the council and has therefore supported the principle of 20 weeks of leave with 100% pay (i would remind you that in sweden maternity leave can be up to 75 weeks, of which 14 weeks are reserved for the mother, the rest being shared with the father). this is a strong gesture for european parents, women and men, who will be helped to find a better balance between family and professional life. it is now up to european governments to examine the budgetary feasibility of such a change and to accept it. in the end, it is likely that the minimum leave will be the one proposed by the european commission and supported by the modem delegation, namely a leave of 18 weeks, which would correspond to the recommendations of the international labour organization (ilo).
in writing. the extension of maternity leave with full pay to 20 weeks is a false good idea. such legislation will undermine the employability of women in companies, who will see it as too much of a burden to bear in the event of maternity. it will also jeopardise the woman's reintegration into the exact position she held before she left. finally, opting for compensation at 100% of the salary over a long period of time is a cost for social security schemes (in a context where the european institutions are strongly calling on states to reduce their public deficits). for these reasons i cannot support this report and i think that we should remain realistic and allow some flexibility for the member states in this respect.
in writing. parliament has just voted in first reading to extend maternity leave to a minimum of 20 weeks across europe, paid at 100% of salary, except for high-wage workers, and the possibility for fathers to take at least 2 weeks of leave when a child is born. it is a victory for the supporters of social europe and a step towards greater equality between men and women in europe. some on the right have used the future costs of these measures as a pretext for rejecting these advances. but helping parents to reconcile family and work life will make it easier for parents to return to work, encourage european births, and protect the health of mothers and infants. the left in parliament, with the portuguese socialist rapporteur edite estrela, held firm, the european right split and the road to progress won. the battle must now be won in the council, where several governments are threatening to block this directive. national parliamentarians should take this up and intervene with their governments so that they do not undo what the european parliament is proposing for a europe that protects the rights of its citizens.
in writing. by voting in favour of a maternity leave of at least 20 weeks (compared with 14 weeks at present), with 100% compensation, and for the recognition in the european union of a compulsory two-week paternity leave, the european parliament has made undeniable social progress. i have not voted for extending maternity leave to 20 weeks, but for extending it to 18 weeks. it seems to me that a period of 20 weeks, although an extremely generous proposal, is likely to turn against women and serve as an additional argument for not recruiting them or making it more difficult for them to return to work. i also regret that the provision which provided for the possibility of extending maternity leave in the event of difficulties (premature birth, disability, etc.) was rejected.
in writing. i regret the outcome of this vote. we all share a desire to enable new mothers to build a strong bond with their child during the recovery period after childbirth. i regret, however, the economic impact of such a measure, which will cost our country 1.5 billion euros. in these times of economic crisis, it is not demagogy that will pay the bill! the companies will not be able to do so, much less the budgets of the member states. such measures could penalise certain careers or hinder the recruitment of young women. to continue a traditional system where the father brings in the salary and the wife looks after the children, as some want, is a step backwards. freedom of choice is also a right for women. the negotiations which are about to begin between the governments of the 27 member states in the council will be difficult.
in writing. pascale gruny did not want to support this report because the move from 14 to 20 weeks paid at 100% would have catastrophic financial consequences for many member states. the oecd study shows very high costs for the social accounts of the member states. the amount for france is 1.3 billion euros and for the united kingdom 2.4 billion pounds per year. the current economic situation does not allow for the incorporation of increases in these budgets. moreover, the companies would have to bear these additional costs, which is impossible. but it is essential to support women in their maternity! the application of these measures poses a very great risk to women's employment. the oecd study also shows that the increase in maternity leave is reflected in the decline in women's employment. the aim of helping women is to put them at risk of being penalized in the labour market. pascale gruny wants to help women in their jobs and to support them in their maternity. the increase from 14 to 18 weeks proposed by the european commission was a real step forward. another step forward would have been to have progressive measures on childcare arrangements.
in writing. i voted for the estrela report and i am glad that parliament has taken such a progressive position towards mothers, expectant mothers and fathers. the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks is an undeniable social progress, which embodies the social europe we are calling for. this text improves the reconciliation of family and working life. the introduction of a compulsory two-week paternity leave is also a major step forward in changing attitudes and the distribution of roles between parents. the argument of the additional costs that this measure would entail would be acceptable if women did not already supplement their maternity leave with sick leave and/or paid leave. the costs are already there for businesses and social protection systems.
in writing. philippe juvin did not want to support this report because the extension of the maternity leave from 14 weeks (as provided for in the current directive) to 20 weeks with 100% pay would have a considerable financial impact for the member states (eur 1.3 billion for france) in a period of economic crisis that is not conducive to budgetary growth. secondly, the additional burden on companies in member states where they are partly financing maternity leave (e.g. germany) would be very high. secondly, the negative consequences on women's employability are real, particularly in terms of their return to the labour market. finally, the european parliament, by adopting measures which are not financially viable and which may even be counterproductive in terms of women's participation in the labour market, is discrediting itself in the european decision-making process. the extension of maternity leave to 18 weeks, as proposed by the commission, would have been an important step towards improving the situation of women by avoiding the pitfalls of the text as finally adopted by the european parliament, the main thing being to allow women to reconcile work and family life.
in writing. i voted against the estrela report because the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks is actually a false good idea. this extension is presented as granting more rights to women, whereas in my view it would have a negative impact on their access to the labour market. it is feared that this proposal, if implemented, will turn against women and consequently make their employability more difficult. contrary to the rapporteur's and those who support this text's assertions, there is no automatic link between the birth rate and the length of maternity leave. furthermore, the proposal of extending the period from 14 to 20 weeks with 100% pay is not a financially acceptable position for many countries. the additional costs of this extension cannot be borne by the undertakings or the member states. the european commission's original proposal, to move from 14 to 18 weeks, was a sufficient step forward.
in writing. the vote on mrs estrela's report is of crucial importance. the position adopted is purely demagogic and irresponsible. by demanding 20 weeks of maternity leave, we are discrediting the european parliament. we are the voice of the people; it is not fair to them to take such unrealistic positions. the cost to the social accounts of the member states is very high: for france, for example, the figure is 1.3 billion euros. the current economic situation does not allow for such an increase to be included in the state budget, not to mention the consequences for our companies, which will have to bear part of these additional costs. we must support and encourage women to better balance their work and motherhood, not to sabotage their employment opportunities! the increase from 14 to 18 weeks proposed by the european commission was a real step forward, one that would have been enhanced by a reflection on new childcare methods. the message conveyed by this text carries a huge responsibility: motherhood would clearly be a hindrance to professional development.
in writing. the maternity leave directive was finally adopted by the european parliament on 20 october. i voted for this text, which represents a real advance for women. the directive still needs to be accepted by the council. the text voted today aims to grant women in the european union a right to 20 weeks of maternity leave, 4 weeks more than in france, where women are currently entitled to 16 weeks of maternity leave. the text also provides for a right to 20 days of paternity leave (more than the 11 days currently granted in france). the directive also provides that women are to receive full pay during their leave. this is a reminder of the importance of the crisis. in addition, the text has a social non-regression clause, which means that if the law of the member states is more protective on certain points, it will continue to apply. so this is progress and i welcome it.
in writing. i am also pleased with the solution found on payment deadlines and welcome the inclusion in the text of the socialist and democratic group's proposal to allow an additional deadline for public health services, whose complex budgetary procedures lead to longer payment deadlines. moreover, while respecting contractual freedom between private enterprises, an important safeguard is provided by prohibiting excessive payment delays for creditors, who are often smes.
in writing. late payment can lead to financial difficulties and even bankruptcy for some companies, especially smes: according to the european commission, late payment costs the european economy around €180 billion annually. other estimates put the cost at $300 billion a year - the equivalent of greece's national debt! in the current economic climate, i am pleased that the council and parliament were able to agree quickly on an ambitious revision of european legislation in this area. the european parliament has had a major impact on this issue. we have made sure that the final text is based on many of the improvements voted for in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, including: higher statutory interest rates payable in the event of delay; for business-to-business transactions, a default 30-day rule and an extension to 60 days, extendable under certain conditions; for public institutions, a maximum of 60 days; greater flexibility for public health and public medical and social care institutions; and finally, simplification of the compensation for recovery costs (a flat rate of eur 40).
in writing. the economic crisis has greatly increased poverty. more than 85 000 people are now living below the poverty line in the european union. in the context of the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, i welcome the political commitment of the european parliament to ensure strong and effective economic and social cohesion. the figueiredo report points out that the introduction of a national minimum income is one of the most effective ways of combating poverty. however, i am opposed to the creation of a minimum income at the level of the european union. such a measure would be demagogic and totally inappropriate in the present situation. the structural funds also play a key role in combating social exclusion. the european social fund, in particular, is a strong european investment to encourage access to the labour market for people in difficulty. it should remain a strong instrument of cohesion policy in the period 2014-2020.
in writing. in europe, 20 member states have national legislation setting a minimum wage, and differences between countries can be very large. for example, the minimum wage in luxembourg is around eur 1 682, while in bulgaria it is only eur 123. that is why the european parliament has just reiterated its call for a european minimum income. this minimum income could be one of the solutions to be explored to prevent millions of europeans from falling into poverty. we believe it is important to remember that guaranteeing a minimum income must of course be accompanied by an overall social strategy including access to basic services such as health, housing, education and lifelong learning, at any age and in a way adapted to each country. meps also want to see the eu's role in the fight against terrorism strengthened, and the eu's role in the fight against terrorism strengthened.
in writing. my support for this report underlines the importance of solidarity within our european societies, especially in this european year against poverty. some member states, such as france, played a pioneering role in creating a 'minimum income for integration' 20 years ago. however, experience has shown that this system can have negative effects, for example by encouraging inactivity in some people. the union must therefore consider measures which, like the active solidarity income in france, empower the beneficiary and encourage him to return to work, the first real factor of social integration.
in writing. i have rarely seen such a demagogic and so out of place report. demagogic because he wants to introduce a minimum income at least equal to 60% of the median income in all member states and for all, without any nationality condition. median income short or available? the median standard of living used to calculate the poverty line? in my country, this is tantamount to encouraging assisted inactivity and creating a formidable immigration suction pump. because according to the definition chosen, this income could be higher than the minimum wage, which affects 15% of workers in france. a record in the developed world. what europeans need is not aid, but real jobs with decent pay. the report does not mention the real causes of poverty: the pressure on wages exerted by external competition from low-cost countries which practice social dumping, and by internal competition from immigration from outside europe. and the explosion of unemployment, relocations and business closures due to the wild globalization. it also ignores the extremely worrying case of the impoverishment of the european middle classes. these are the causes that must be tackled first.
in writing. today, in europe, 17% of the population, or nearly 85 million people, live below the poverty line. behind these figures, extreme poverty is the most worrying and it is increasing, especially in these times of crisis; that's why a minimum income is fundamental. as 2010 is the european year for the eradication of poverty and the day after the world day for the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, we in the european parliament voted a resolution calling for a european minimum income of 60% of the median income in each member state. our report stresses that the introduction of minimum income systems in all member states is one of the most effective measures to combat poverty, ensure an adequate standard of living and promote social inclusion and i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i supported the report calling on member states to fight poverty by introducing minimum income systems, modelled on the rsa, formerly the rmi in france. this type of tool is clearly recognised as being very useful in combating high levels of insecurity. the text proposes that this type of minimum income should represent 60% of the median wage in each country and above all be part of an overall strategy of integration, return to sustainable employment and access to public services, the first of which is housing. the text was adopted, but unfortunately the alternative versions proposed by the left-wing political groups, calling for a binding framework directive for the introduction of a minimum income throughout the union, were rejected. the position we have taken in favour of these minimum income systems is therefore encouraging, but it may not be sufficient.
in writing. eighty-five million people in europe are at risk of poverty! the economic crisis we are going through makes young people - more than one in five of whom are unemployed - women, single parents, even more vulnerable. the number of people living in poverty has risen to 19 million. while 2010 has been declared the 'european year for combating poverty and social exclusion', a recent eurobarometer survey on citizens' attitudes towards the eu shows that 74% of them expect the eu to play an important role in this area. let's hear them, and let's do it! i supported the resolution on the role of minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in europe. unfortunately, not all the 27 member states have a national minimum income system. i therefore supported the call on the commission to use its right of initiative to propose a framework directive establishing the principle of an adequate minimum income in europe on the basis of common criteria, which was unfortunately rejected.
in writing. while the crisis we have been experiencing since the summer of 2007 will have cost 60 trillion dollars, and recovery is not yet achieved, i voted for this text because, by this vote, together with my fellow meps, we wanted to demonstrate that political responsibility and ambition can go hand in hand. the cacophony between the commission, the van rompuy working group and the merkel-sarkozy tandem on economic governance is countered by a clear proposal: the creation of a mr or mrs euro in charge of the internal and external coherence of the union's economic policy choices.
in writing. the crisis exposed the failings of the economic and monetary union, nearly wiped out the euro, and led to the loss of millions of jobs across the continent. with the report by mrs berès, the european parliament has just adopted a coherent proposal for a strategy to bring europe out of the crisis and to respond to the financial, economic and social shocks it has caused. the establishment of a real financial supervision, which we have begun to adopt but which will have to be considerably strengthened; a financial transaction tax to regulate markets and finance public goods, and reduce government deficits; the coordination of member states' economic policies and budgets for sustainable growth; appointment of a mr or mrs euro, to put a pilot in the euro area and unify its representation in the g20, the imf; the commission has also proposed the creation of a european energy community. it is time for europe to get moving again. that is what the citizens expect. in a world of movement, immobility is decline. that is why we must now move from reporting to action.
in writing. as usual when it comes to the economic, social and financial crisis in this house, mrs berès' report misses the point and focuses on saving the system rather than on challenging it. this report even adds to the profession of faith in the self-regulating virtues of the market, which is pretended to believe that it can be "moralised". it is the belief in the benefits of global competition and the unrestricted free movement of capital and goods. monitoring a system that is not working will not prevent the worst of it. the banking system has shown its cynicism by repaying in advance, in order to avoid having to change its behaviour, including the most scandalous ones, the state aids which had saved it from going under. the whole global financial system, as it stands today, is detrimental to the real economy. it encourages speculation and the creation of complex products, often opaque and potentially toxic. it produces wind-based wealth. it conditions the very short-term strategies of companies, favours shareholders at the expense of other economic actors... you can't just pretend to be watching him. we need to change it.
in writing. beyond the loss of millions of jobs across the european continent and the threats to the euro, the crisis has highlighted the lack of strong and harmonised economic governance within the european union and the failures of financial supervision. i have spoken in favour of this resolution because it seeks to address these problems and calls for the introduction of a financial transaction tax which would have the benefit of limiting speculation in financial transactions, regulating markets, financing public goods and also reducing public deficits. this is a strong measure that i have long called my wishes and i am glad of it.
in writing. i supported the report by my french socialist colleague pervenche bérès on the economic and social financial crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. with this vote, the european parliament is proving that political responsibility and ambition can go hand in hand. the priority is on employment, because economic recovery is likely to be achieved without a fall in unemployment. the text calls for the establishment of a genuine european energy community. the appointment of a mr/mrs euro responsible for the economic and monetary choices of the union will also be a major step forward. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive.
in writing. the european parliament adopted on wednesday, 20 october, the report of its special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis. we voted against this report with the gue/ngl group because the proposals it contains are quite surreal and do not take into account the social mobilizations that have been taking place for months in the member states of the european union against the austerity plans and the anti-social measures that are destroying social systems and public services, the only measures envisaged to limit the budget deficits of the eu states. it is part of the counter-reform of pensions proposed by nicolas sarkozy and his government which the french social movement has been fighting and denouncing for weeks now. the report therefore continues to praise the stability pact and the measures and policies which we have been denouncing for years and which our fellow citizens increasingly see as failing. the very large majority (501 votes in favour) who voted for this report clearly do not understand the messages of the citizens who have been mobilizing all over europe for weeks against the austerity plans and the counter-reforms that accompany them.
in writing. in adopting the resolution on economic governance, the european parliament recalls its main objectives in the negotiations on the six commission legislative proposals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial perspective. we continue to argue that the introduction of a financial transaction tax would reduce speculation and improve the functioning of the internal market. in addition, the revenue generated by this tax could help finance global public goods and reduce government deficits. this tax should be set on the broadest possible basis, and certainly initially at the level of the european union.
in writing. this is not about improving economic governance at the level of the union, but about putting the economic, budgetary and fiscal policies of the member states under the absolute imperative not of their economic prosperity, but of the interests of the single market and brussels. it is also about the reactivation and worsening of the stability pact, which has been continuously harmful. this is not acceptable, any more than the creation of a common public treasury to administer a european tax, the institutionalisation of a european economic government (for what purpose) is acceptable. it is true that the level of public deficits and public debt, the majority of which is held abroad, is dangerous, both in financial and sovereign terms. but they would probably be less important without your policies, without the obligation for states to borrow from the markets. almost one sixth of the french government's budget is spent on paying interest on its debt. as long as we pay for that, we don't do anything else.
mr president, i thank my colleague mr grenz for taking account of international standards on health, safety and the environment, including, of course, exposure to pesticides. the defence of small producers in this report seems to me essential because, it should be remembered, they only receive 1.5% of the price paid by the final consumer. it is not necessary to remind you, as you know, that millions of peasants are forced to join the slums every year. now that the fight against pesticides and against mass exposure to pesticides is being echoed in this house, it seems to me essential that the same requirements apply to the west indies subject to chlordecone and to the outermost regions. i call on the commission to do that. in conclusion, although i welcome the progress made, i would like to reiterate that the main problem with bananas is obviously the agricultural model which must be re-examined because it is export-oriented. we need to rethink the agricultural model towards more self-sufficiency.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has had a special and strong relationship with the acp countries for many years. this particular feature of the relations has been reflected in particular in the granting of tariff preferences. this is the case in the banana sector, where acp countries have enjoyed preferential trade arrangements for their exports to the european union. this preference has been contested before the wto, particularly by the latin american countries which are major banana exporters. it was therefore to comply with wto rules and end a long-running dispute that the european union agreed to tariff reductions in the banana sector in december 2009. however, because of its privileged partnership with the acp countries, the european union has been keen to help the acp banana-producing countries to cope with this increased competition. europe has committed eur 190 million until 2013 to help acp banana producers adapt, become competitive and restructure their sector if necessary. in the report we are voting on tomorrow, the european parliament reaffirms its commitment and support for the acp banana-producing countries, and i am very pleased about that. we have therefore proposed that the european union may adopt additional measures after 2013, if necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall concentrate on mr goerens' report on the accompanying measures for acp bananas. as i myself come from one of the only banana-producing regions in europe, i can only express my solidarity with the acp producers in question. solidarity first and foremost, because the european union has a strong historical link with these countries and we must do everything we can to ensure that they too can fully benefit from globalisation, of which they are regularly the first victims. solidarity, secondly, because the trade concessions generously granted by the commission to the wto are likely to deal a fatal blow to this agricultural sector in our acp partners. finally, solidarity, but above all not naivety, since the proposal for a regulation on bam, as presented by the commission, placed far too much emphasis on the economic diversification aspect. in view of the loss of tariff preference caused by the wto agreement, it is clear that the main objective of this programme is to ensure the sustainability of acp banana exports and thus to support their competitiveness. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. in conclusion, i would add that if we are aware of the urgency of the situation, we can accept that these support measures be financed by the massive use of the redeployment of heading iv of the budget. the council must be responsible and work towards a viable solution for the multiannual financing of this programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this debate may give rise to some optimism, since it is, in theory, a question of defining the terms of aid to the acp banana-producing countries. the reality is quite different, and i would like to say that the way they have been treated on this whole issue is simply unacceptable. first of all, it should be borne in mind that bananas are a vital industry for many african and caribbean countries. but despite this, they have made an effort to accept an agreement at the wto lowering the european customs tariff to 114 euros per tonne to end a long conflict with latin american producers. but the commission seems to have forgotten to inform them of the ongoing bilateral negotiations with these same countries on the basis of a much lower tariff of 75 euros per tonne. the trade implications of these agreements will be significant in a context where the bulk of the european banana market is already held by multinationals based in latin america. in view of this situation, at the last plenary session of the acp-eu assembly in tenerife, all members unanimously adopted a declaration calling for support measures to be rapidly unlocked and adapted to the needs of producers. when i return to brussels or strasbourg, i am unfortunately not surprised to find that the right wing is backing down and refusing even to refer to this declaration. i am tired of this double game, but i am particularly concerned that this fatigue is shared by those who are our historical partners and who no longer believe in our willingness to really support their development.
i am very pleased to be able to speak after mr fjellner. i'm sure i disagree. but first of all, let me thank our rapporteur and all the counter-rapporteurs, and particularly my friend gianluca susta, for their excellent work and cooperation on this text, which will finally introduce a compulsory country of origin marking system for certain products imported into europe. i also thank you, commissioner, for your commitment. our vote tomorrow will be the first step towards the implementation of this regulation, which dates back to 2005 and which the european parliament has always supported and called for. the marking of origin is an important step forward in terms of transparency and information which we must constantly improve for the benefit of european citizens. european consumers rightly want to know what they are buying, where the product comes from and under what conditions it was produced. they therefore call for the possibility of being able to consume in a more informed and therefore more responsible way. with this new regulation, we are responding to this demand because our citizens will be better informed, in particular, about the social and environmental conditions under which the goods they buy are produced. contrary to what some people believe, the consumer is also a citizen who is willing to pay more for a quality european product, because the issue of this legislation is also essential for european companies whose production is associated with a reputation for quality and strict production standards. for those companies which have chosen to maintain production that preserves know-how and employment in europe, this regulation will restore a level playing field vis-à-vis our external trading partners. the text as voted by the committee on international trade is balanced, and so when it is voted tomorrow in plenary, i call on all of us collectively not to call that balance into question and to support it by a massive vote.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for the good work she has done. we need to be better informed about the indication of the countries of origin of the products we buy. community law also provides for punitive measures in the event of infringement. (the president cut the speaker off and then resumed at the president's request) we need to be better informed about the indication of the country of origin of the products we buy. community law also provides for punitive measures in the event of infringement or fraud as to origin. the court... no, this is not right, excuse me. (the speaker interrupts again)
madam president, if you will excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur for her good work. we need to be better informed about the indication of the countries of origin of the products we buy. community law also provides for punitive measures in the event of infringement or fraud as to origin. the european court of justice says, for the law, that the commission... no, excuse me, i have a problem, i'll put it on the pv. (speaker breaks off)
madam president, the miracle of free trade and free and undistorted competition means that a consumer who buys a knife labelled laguiole in his home region of aveyron has a 90% chance of buying a low-quality knife made in china or pakistan, just one example among many. it's a real hoax on the merchandise. if we really want to safeguard and develop industrial employment in the union, if we do not want to deceive the european consumer and protect his health, if we want to ensure that the social and environmental achievements of our societies are maintained, it is urgent to make the indication of the origin of manufactured products compulsory, even if it means breaking the ultra-liberal dogmas that have been the foundation of europe: an indication that must be serious, and not a deception that would consist in presenting a commodity as 'made in europe' when it is only the assembly of parts from all over the world and the label would be 'made in europe'. it will then be left to give the customs and judicial authorities of the member states all the means of control and enforcement to implement strict legislation on the marking of origin and the country of origin.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are obviously faced with a text whose complexity is disturbing to many of us and, in my view, even more so to european citizens. i asked for transparency, commissioner, and you answered. i'm left with a lot of worry today. indeed, the main risk, beyond purely technical issues, is the way we are engaging in this increasingly complex relationship between individual freedoms and the internet. the world is changing rapidly, we are all aware of this, aware of the revolution that is taking place in the access to information, but also to culture through this tool. in this world of immediacy and gratuity, traditional benchmarks are being upended. so our most complex task is to define new regulations, because regulation is necessary not only to protect artists and rights holders, but i would also like to see individual freedoms not ignored. as regards the protection of freedoms and the first of these, the protection of privacy, one of my main concerns is the possibility offered by acta of checking travellers' personal effects and luggage at the borders. does this mean that our mobile phones, our mp3 players, our computers, can be searched by customs officers for illegally downloaded files? according to the commission, this is only a possibility because the exact term used in the text is not binding. it says states can choose whether or not to allow search of personal luggage. but let's be serious for a second. how can such language not be perceived as an incentive to carry out these checks? do you really think that a government, if it is pushed a little bit by its record industry - and i'm taking this example voluntarily - will not take this opportunity offered by acta to evolve its national legislation towards more controls of passengers entering its territory? another problem is that if it is proven that files held by a private person are intended for commercial use, suppression is automatic. but who determines the commercial or non-commercial nature of the files we hold? some might say that a person with 500 songs on his mp3 player must have commercial motives, but why would others not set that limit at 300, 100, 50, 10? for a malicious person, it is really enough to have one movie illegally downloaded to make thousands of copies and turn it into a commercial activity. in the end, the control will be carried out by the judges of each country, but if a european citizen is arrested by the customs authorities of a signatory country on the basis of particularly binding legislation, he will have no way of challenging it. do you really wish such a drift was possible? was it not the commission's responsibility in these negotiations to do everything in its power to ensure that the agreement prohibited the search of personal effects? i am deliberately bringing up only this issue tonight, but there are many others that you have brought up, which we will include in the resolution that i have asked for and which will be voted on normally in plenary next month. i ask you, commissioner, to take account of the outcome of this vote in accordance with your commitment, that is to say, to take account of parliament's opinion before signing the act.
mr president, commissioner, as the initiator of the written declaration on acta with my colleagues lambrinidis, roithová and alvaro, i would first of all like to thank you for the efforts you have made, particularly in recent weeks, to ensure transparency and consultation. i shall stop there for now, because the text is very ambiguous on important subjects. firstly, commissioner, you say that this text does not change the community acquis, but what about the new criminal sanctions for the offence of complicity in copyright infringement, which you would like to distinguish from infringement? how can we not think about what is happening in france with the threat of hadopi and the potential sanctions on the neutrality of technical intermediaries. the fact that this passage was negotiated by the council places it outside the commission's negotiating scope and therefore, perhaps, outside the community acquis. secondly, the acta committee seems to have the possibility of introducing amendments to the texts. you will therefore understand our concern at the prospect of adopting a text which may be amended. once again, commissioner, it is difficult for us to give a blank cheque to the future acta secretariat, and the reservations we make about the text in our resolution will dictate our position on ratification of this text.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. − a uachtaráin, táim buíoch don teachta simpson as ucht an cheist fhíorthábhachtach seo a ardú a bhfuil suim ag go leor d’fheisirí na parlaiminte seo inti agus an coimisiún freisin. the commission welcomes the results of the lashing@sea project. it is primarily the role of the international maritime organisation to tackle the issue of containers lost at sea, as this is regulated at an international level. the commission will nevertheless work together with member states to promote actions to adopt internationally agreed procedures within the structures of the international maritime organisation. on the second question of overweight and incorrectly stowed containers, there are no eu rules governing the weighing of containers before loading them on ships or procedures covering stowage or lashing. this matter is regulated at national level or through international agreements. the commission does not plan at this stage to take a legislative initiative concerning this issue. however, this could change if international discussions are not successful and there are increased problems with the stability of ships, the strength of ships or losses of containers. before presenting any new proposal, the commission would need to fully assess the impact such a measure would have on shipping operators. today the commission does not have sufficient information concerning this specific matter. concerning the third issue of tracking systems to locate containers at sea, this possibility could be further explored. however, equipping millions of containers with tracking devices would be costly and a proper assessment of the benefits must be carried out before taking a final decision to make such tracking systems mandatory. the commission could also assess the feasibility of clarifying the provisions of directive 2002/59/ec that established the community vessel traffic monitoring system and which obliges the member states to ensure that the master of a ship reports to responsible coastal stations any sight of containers drifting at sea. if the option to ensure the traceability of the containers is to be explored, the cost of such measures should be taken into account. however, such an option could be considered in the framework of the potential development of the traceability of the containers for logistics and security purposes. finally, concerning compensation for the damage caused by lost containers; this can be addressed under directive 2009/20/ec concerning maritime insurance, and directive 2005/35/ec concerning maritime pollution and sanctions in the event of offences covers cases when oil-polluting substances have been dumped into the sea. directive 2004/35/ec concerning environmental liability also establishes strict liability for operators who cause damage to the environment through the transportation by sea of dangerous goods or polluting goods. such operators are obliged to remedy the damage caused to protected species and natural habitats. additional measures to put in place a compensation regime for damages caused by lost containers would need to be closely assessed against the proportionality principle justifying eu action. the commission believes that at this stage the work of the imo to improve standards should be the priority.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, as mr simpson has pointed out, several thousand containers are lost every year in european waters and represent a very serious danger in two respects: in terms of pollution, which has been widely discussed, but also because a number of them do not sink and often float between two waters where they are difficult to detect, they represent a major danger to the safety of navigation, whether it is commercial navigation for that matter but especially smaller fishing or pleasure boats with, as we know, serious accidents that put human life at risk. this is therefore a very serious problem, and i understand the commission's reply that either it does not have the information to act or it believes that, in the state of the existing arrangements, a number of measures apply. in reality, this is not the case, the situation is completely untenable. we therefore want to see effective measures proposed, both preventive, that is to say, on the methods of loading and stowing containers and on the ability to incorporate into containers, and this can be done under satisfactory economic conditions, a tag which makes it possible, on the one hand, to locate the container when it is lost and, therefore, either to avoid it during navigation - and human lives will be saved - or to recover it if it contains toxic products. the label must also be capable of giving, in the case of toxic or highly toxic products, an agreed signal which makes it possible to predict and contain the environmental risk. finally, this tag must be used to identify the owner because there is a real issue of liability that was raised during the oral question. the absence of a known owner and the lack of any capacity to identify and locate the containers mean that nothing is established, both for recovery and for repairing the damage. we are asking the commission very strongly not to be satisfied with the fact that we do not have the means or that the existing means are not sufficient, that is not the case, there is environmental safety, but there are also lives at stake, we must remember that.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs meissner, our rapporteur, for her excellent report and, above all, for her excellent cooperation with the intergroup on seas and coastal areas, which i chair, and which has been able to get amendments adopted through her on matters which were important to her members. this report gives us an opportunity to look to the future and, given the times we are living in, this is very important. we want to see two things in the pmi. firstly, priority should be given to the preservation of the marine and coastal environment. a framework directive already exists but other instruments need to be strengthened, notably on integrated coastal zone management and maritime spatial planning. we must use the next three years to build a genuine community policy in this area, which will break down the artificial boundary between land and sea instruments, otherwise our fellow citizens will not understand. we therefore expect a lot from mrs damanaki on this point. blue growth is the second point. we all attach great importance to this and we expect the study launched by dg mare to clarify the sources of activity and employment we can expect. i would like to draw your attention to the project launched by the maritime regions called 'vasco de gama'; i thank mrs meissner for having taken it into account.
mr president, i think the report shows clearly the challenges facing the marine environment in terms of fisheries, aquaculture, transport, tourism, energy, mineral and biological resources, and research into climate change. this is a huge potential for development that must be secured, protected and sustainably developed because the future of humanity depends on it. the report also rightly notes that the european union is the world's leading maritime power and that its outermost regions offer it the largest exclusive economic zone in the world. in view of this, it is therefore up to the european union to implement an ambitious policy, a major policy for the sea. if the world's leading maritime power is not doing this, who will? but it is clear that the resolution does not go very far in that direction. it is not with 50 million euros that one can claim to occupy the leadership position in world politics. finally, while the outermost regions have a recognised strategic position since they are present in all the oceans, it would have been wise to give them a major role in a major ocean strategy, which unfortunately was not included in the report and i regret that.
madam president, i would like to remind you of the rules of procedure. i consider the conditions under which the sakharov prize was decided this year to be scandalous. i believe that political choices are more important than the real defence of human rights. (applause) this will be the third time since the sakharov prize has been awarded. i am the first to denounce the way in which human rights are threatened in cuba. i don't have a lot of feelings about it. i have always fought for human rights of all kinds. but i think that three times, in the 20 years that the sakharov prize has been around, three times the cubans, i think that's a lot, and it's a political signal that we give that devalues the sakharov prize. that is why i am asking that the sakharov prize not be decided by the conference of presidents but be submitted to all members of parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. parliament voted in favour of extending the geographical scope of the financial instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories. it is an instrument for establishing economic, commercial, academic, scientific and diplomatic relations with major partners in the world economy such as india, china and brazil. we have chosen to give this instrument a wider geographical scope so that it can benefit new countries whose development is accelerating significantly and which will soon be important trading partners for the european economy, such as the countries of asia, central asia, latin america and south africa.
in writing. i abstained on the report on the creation of a financial instrument for the restructuring of the banana sector in the acp countries. firstly, i regret that this financial instrument has a budget of eur 190 million, whereas the acp countries have estimated the minimum needs at eur 500 million to enable them to restructure the sector in order to become competitive. finally, i regret that this report, under the guise of agricultural diversification (an objective which is not much supported by the eu in the economic partnership agreements negotiated with the acp), seeks to frame by means of a financial instrument the rapid disappearance (in three years) of the banana sector in the acp; this will benefit latin american producers who are already leading the world market with over 70% of the export market share. i also did not want to vote against this report because the acp countries and the european banana-producing regions urgently need help to deal with the consequences that have already been felt as a result of the geneva and other bilateral agreements which have reduced the customs duties on latin american bananas from eur 185 per tonne to eur 74 per tonne.
in writing. our citizens must be better informed about the indication of the country of origin and be able to buy with knowledge of the facts. europeans still do not know whether they are buying products actually made in israel or from israeli settlements in the palestinian territories. a standardisation of origin marking practices in the union, in particular for agricultural products originating in israel and the palestinian territories, is in line with this.
in writing. by voting in favour of the report on the 'indication of the country of origin' of certain products from third countries, parliament responds to consumer expectations for greater transparency of products. the european consumer will now have the same right as chinese and american consumers to know where products come from. the draft regulation will enable european companies to promote their know-how, traditional production methods and the quality of their work. finally, it creates a level playing field between european companies and the european union's trading partners, who already have such regulations. european companies producing quality and excellent products will thus have a tool to protect and enhance them in the face of severe competition from third countries in certain sectors.
in writing. i welcome the overwhelming approval in parliament of the introduction of a european marking system for products imported from third countries. it will now become compulsory within the union. it should be noted that the union is not innovating in this field, the united states, for example, having introduced such an obligation since 1930! it is now absolutely essential for consumers throughout europe to be better informed about the origin of the products they wish to buy. only a system of clear rules can inform them about the social and environmental conditions of manufacture, protect them from health risks and finally help them to make informed choices. it is a victory not only for consumers but also for european exporting companies, which are already subject to strict requirements. with this vote, the european parliament has signed off on the defeat of a system of unfair competition, thus allowing european companies that have chosen quality and employment not to be unfairly penalized by more lax rules for their competitors around the world.
in writing. as a member of the intergroup on seas and coastal areas, i have followed the preparation of the imp report closely. on several occasions i have stressed the need to ensure a harmonious coexistence of the different uses of the sea, which both enhances traditional activities (such as fishing, which, symbolically, i have asked to be mentioned first in the list of maritime activities listed in the report), but also facilitates the development of new activities. i have thus recalled that the renewable energy sector, including offshore wind, should be given special support, as it meets the european objectives of diversifying energy sources and can, by 2020, lead to a gain of 410000 jobs in europe, according to a commission study. finally, with the rapporteur, i amended the report to ask the commission to ensure that the pmi has the financial means to do so. the first discussions in the committee on political challenges and budgetary resources for the period after 2013, of which i am a member, have raised uncertainties about the long-term financing of regional cohesion policy, some of whose programmes concern the sme.
the integrated maritime policy is a major challenge for the european union. its completion should allow the strengthening of economic activities at sea and along the coasts, better employment, but also greater environmental protection and the development of research and innovation in the marine sector. in this respect, i voted for this report, which is a remarkable step forward, because it emphasizes all these elements by adopting a cross-sectoral approach and not a fragmented one as was the case before.
in writing. the amendment tabled with mr dess and 77 other meps requires that imported agricultural products comply with european standards on health, social and consumer protection, the environment and animal welfare. it is still incredible to demand the highest production standards in the world from european farmers, while at the same time increasing the amount of agricultural products that can enter european territory without meeting these same standards. consumers must be able to enjoy a uniform level of protection whatever they buy, and farmers must be rewarded for their enormous efforts, not subjected to de facto unfair competition from third countries. that is my view of a balanced food and agricultural policy. this resolution sends a clear signal to the commission and to third countries, which is why i support it.
in writing. the report on eu trade relations with latin america adopted by the european parliament could well become case law. the trade agreements with latin america contain a very sensitive agricultural aspect. the parliament therefore called for 'the importation into the european union of agricultural products to be allowed only if they comply with european standards on consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection and minimum social standards'. it is now up to the commission to take account of this political demand of parliament in future negotiations. in the context of these negotiations, parliament called for special attention to be paid to the outermost regions because of competition from the latin american continent for certain products, notably bananas. the parliament therefore called for the strategic and traditional sectors of the ors to be preserved and adequately compensated in line with the eu's commitments to these regions in 2009.
author. - mr president, i would tend to think that the human rights situation in zimbabwe is unfortunately not an emergency in the sense in which we usually understand it in this house. the violation of these rights in this country is indeed a recurrent phenomenon, as is shown by the many resolutions passed in this parliament. in the last instance, we have denounced the arrest on 22 july of mr farai maguwu, founder and director of the research and development centre, for having denounced the atrocities committed, including by the military authorities, in the diamond fields. today we are discussing the issue of forced evictions. this question is not new. indeed, as mrs de keyser said, a similar operation was launched by the zimbabwean authorities in 2005, called "murambatsvina", which means to restore order. it's a whole program, isn't it? this is a clear indication of the sense of order that the zimbabwean authorities have. 700 000 people were affected. the international community had unanimously condemned the methods used. where are we today? most of the people affected are still living in tents. worse still, last august armed police, i mean police, came and set fire to the shelters of some 250 displaced persons on the outskirts of harare. it has also been said that 20,000 people are now in danger of suffering the same fate because they have not paid their residence tax, which they are unable to pay. these men, women and children are among the poorest in the country. are we just gonna sit here and do nothing? will we once again remind the zimbabwean authorities of their international commitments, as mrs ashton did at the recent eu-zimbabwe summit last july? we know that the situation is tense between president mugabe and the prime minister who was appointed following the comprehensive political agreement signed on 15 september 2008 and the government of national unity appointed on 13 february. recently, president mugabe threatened to dismiss the government on short notice because it dared to remind him of his constitutional obligations. it is time to react in zimbabwe as in many other countries around the world to stop talking to dictators who hold power by force and fraud, only to plunder the wealth of their country for personal gain.
the european union is a party to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on european union. today, in the context of what is happening in the north caucasus, although not only there, but also in many other parts of russia, one can say that there is no stabilization without law and order. it's very important to talk about these two things at the same time. we cannot talk about economic and political relations with russia without respecting human rights in this country. it is really a system of connected things, not two separate things. elementary honesty requires not only to speak of the warmth of relations with russia, this great country, but also requires moscow to respect human rights, also in the context of the person who was awarded the sakharov prize. the european parliament and the european union are the two main institutions of the european union.
author. - mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to ask ourselves collectively what the sakharov prize is for. i would first like to thank my colleagues, and in particular mrs hautala, for answering my request concerning mr orlov's situation. mr orlov is one of the three executives of the memorial association to which we awarded the sakharov prize last year. by awarding this prize, we have rewarded the commitment of those who still dare to speak out against the situation in chechnya. it was symbolic because it was a few months after the murder of mrs natalia estemirova, a murder that mr orlov had violently denounced. we knew that the chechen president was pursuing mr orlov with hatred, that he had filed a complaint against him. in january 2010, mr. orlov and memorial were convicted and we said nothing. on 6 july, mr orlov was again charged and now faces a three-year prison sentence. when we award the sakharov prize, we seek to highlight the struggle of men and women who fight for democracy and human rights, and by awarding them the prize, we place them under our protection. what have we done for mr orlov and for all those who defend human rights in russia and chechnya? how have we developed the european union's dialogue so that human rights are finally respected in the north caucasus? can we tolerate without saying anything that more than a year after the murder of mrs estemirova no legal action has been taken? can we tolerate human rights defenders being kidnapped, harassed, disappeared without any judicial reaction? i would like to say something like this: what good are we if, in one plenary session after another, we denounce a number of human rights violations without this preventing the commission from continuing its so-called constructive dialogues and telling us that things are progressing but not in the field of human rights and justice? when will we stop sacrificing these so-called fundamental values in favour of the economic and political interests of certain member states? perhaps we would be more credible, ladies and gentlemen, if our sittings were not postponed to thursday afternoon and if there were a little more of us to follow these debates.
mr president, i was the rapporteur, i remind you, for the discharge for cepol. i can tell you that we have scheduled a hearing on this discharge and closure of accounts with the fictitious rapporteurs in the committee on budgetary control on 30 november, to hear not only the director of cepol but also the chairman of its governing board, and that we have not yet completed the inquiry into this discharge in the committee on budgetary control. the accounts for 2008 were amended by the new director of cepol. but i would be very sorry if parliament did not complete this inquiry, and i suggest that you, mr president, and ladies and gentlemen, do not close the accounts. it would be a serious mistake indeed if we closed them down at this session.
mr president, no one in this house can seriously guarantee that the measures taken on both sides of the atlantic will prevent a new financial crisis tomorrow. we must therefore put this question back on the agenda, and go further in terms of supervision, the capital of banks, the prohibition of certain financial products and the fight against tax havens. second point. everyone can see that we are completely interdependent in finance, in the economy and in currency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am thinking of course of the fed's action a few days ago. we must move forward together to reform the international monetary system, for example. we must also work together to achieve more balanced, more transparent and more democratic international institutions. but if we want europe to be heard on these big issues, it really needs to take the initiative and speak with one voice. we will see this for example in a few hours at the g20 summit; i certainly hope so.
mr president, madam commissioner, commissioner, i would like to return to the anti-counterfeiting agreement which is currently being negotiated, particularly with the united states. the agreement also raises questions in the united states, particularly among officials of the u.s. patent office. and 75 law professors in the united states have just written to president obama. they believe that acta, as a mere executive agreement, would be unconstitutional. as the european parliament is about to adopt a resolution on the acta agreement, as you know, and as it still raises serious concerns and is far from unanimous among our fellow citizens, i think it would be useful to have a very clear answer from our american partners on two points: can acta be ratified by the united states? do they see acta as a binding or voluntary agreement? indeed, an anti-counterfeiting agreement which china, india and brazil are already absent from and which the united states does not implement would lose much of its credibility. thank you.
madam president, once again we have a request for an agreement on the protection of data of european citizens transferred to the united states, which also applies to canada and australia. we are all committed in this house to the safety of our fellow citizens. the debate is not here. yes, our fellow citizens have a right to security, but they have a right to it in all respects, including legal security. we know that in the name of fighting terrorism in particular, many of the protections to which all citizens are entitled have been undermined and that too often quantity has been given priority over quality. i would like to commend the work of our rapporteur, who is moving in the right direction, particularly when she emphasizes the issues of necessity and proportionality. i would like to add the question of reciprocity. but when it comes to the defence of human rights, the united states is far from being a model, and we know that european citizens are far from enjoying the same protection there as in europe and that a number of them are regularly subjected to what i would call administrative harassment - but there is worse - on the grounds, among other things, that they are suspected of being terrorists. what does that mean? worse, what will happen to these safeguards when data is transferred to third countries, particularly for prevention purposes? we know that 80 percent of that data has already reached the united states. the statements i have just heard are far from reassuring, and i regret it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr minister and president of ecofin, mr commissioner, the text we are debating tonight and which will be put to the vote of parliament tomorrow is the result of a long process. on 30 april 2009, the european commission published its proposal for a directive on alternative fund managers. it aims to establish a secure and harmonised framework at union level for controlling and monitoring the risks posed by money managers to their investors, counterparties, other financial market participants and financial stability and to enable money managers, subject to strict requirements, to provide services and market their funds throughout the internal market. i would like to interrupt, mr president, just to ask if, given the length of our work, i have unlimited time, because i see that the clock has not started, which is fine by me, but i wanted to be honest and tell you that. the text was tabled in parliament almost 14 months ago. it has attracted considerable interest from meps, with a record 1 690 amendments tabled. the trade unions have been very vocal, and the rapporteur has had almost 200 interviews on this text, not to mention interviews with the national authorities. the compromise text under discussion today was a particularly laborious one. half a dozen informal trilogues were held under the spanish presidency during the first half of 2010 to facilitate the exchange of information on the progress of work. no agreement was reached in the council during this period. on 17 may 2010, the economic affairs committee voted by a large majority on the report, which was the result of collective reflection by the members of parliament. parliament introduced proportionality, differentiated rules for the different categories of funds, capital rules protecting target enterprises and employment, and a passport regime for funds and alternative fund managers established outside the european union. a dozen trilogies followed. a specific working group was also set up between the three institutions to deal with the technical aspects of the proposal in several meetings with the belgian presidency and the commission. on 26 october 2010, at the trilogue, which became the final one, held in the active presence of ecofin president didier reynders and commissioner michel barnier, agreement was reached on a compromise text which the rapporteur considered could be put to the vote of parliament. without going into the details of this long technical text, i will highlight the main points: the directive will require alternative fund managers located in the european union to be authorised or registered, to comply with operational and organisational requirements, conduct of business and transparency rules and will subject them to the supervisory and sanctioning power of the competent authorities of the member states and esma. it will give them access to the eu's internal market through an intra-european passport to manage and market their products. in the future, managers located outside the european union will be able to obtain a passport provided they comply with the same obligations as managers based in the european union. the number of meetings and the intensity of the exchanges and negotiations between the rapporteur, the fictitious rapporteurs, the presidency of the day and the commission have enriched the original proposal in many respects. it should be noted that the progress parliament wanted was achieved as the negotiations progressed and, of course, not only at the last trilogue, which was accompanied by adjustments but was decisive from a political point of view. i would like to emphasize here the areas in which parliament's intervention has been decisive. firstly, on two highly political subjects, concerning relations with third countries, the existence and implementation of a passport - which i no longer understand because i have four minutes normally allocated to managers resident outside the european union. specific conditions have been defined for the granting of the passport. as regards private equity, parliament obtained that provisions be inserted in the directive to avoid the potential unbundling of the assets of the target company, as well as specific rules on the information obligations vis-à-vis target companies, their employees or their representatives. i shall not go into a number of provisions which have been obtained in accordance with parliament's wishes, given the lapse of time. i will simply say that parliament would have liked to go further, but it has been able to weigh in on the negotiations so that the role of esma is more asserted. the solutions adopted are nevertheless a significant step forward in improving the european level of control. parliament ensured that the powers of the council and parliament were strengthened in the process of adopting delegated acts by the commission. a majority in parliament would have wanted a very strict framework for passive marketing, or even a ban on it. the inclusion in a recital of the principle that professional investors must exercise due diligence when investing in funds domiciled outside the european union is a significant first step. that is what i wanted to say at the beginning of the debate, mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have contributed to this success. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - madam president, i spoke earlier about technical matters. i would like to thank all the members who have spoken today - i would say more specifically to those who said they supported the text, but to those who do not support it, to put me in the same category as mr cameron, is that really an insult, i do not think so. i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs for the groups, robert goebbels, udo bullmann, mr canfin, mr klute, mrs regner who was rapporteur for opinions in the legal affairs committee. i quote them because they accompanied me in the first part of the process in a remarkable way. we have been able to work together in a very cooperative way, each with his own viewpoint, and i want to thank them for that. i am glad that the liberals and the ecr are joining us when the compromise is found and i am therefore glad that wolf klinz and syed kamall have co-signed with me the amendment which replaces the original report. i would like to thank michel barnier in particular for his very strong involvement in this matter, and he knows what i think of him. i know that he knows that parliament is counting on him and will support him in putting in place these bricks which he and we are very fond of. i would like to thank mr ugo bassi, with whom i have had very fruitful relations during this period, and who is also the result of work done in the commission. as for you, mr minister, i have the impression that you have just made an investment with some of the congratulations, saying: 'are we going to get there?' so i would like to begin by thanking you because without you, on the part of the member states, we would have achieved nothing. i am saying this with all sincerity, not out of courtesy or complacency, but because i believe that your personal commitment was decisive in the progress made in the council and in the possibility of reaching an agreement. you have also managed to get all the important groups to agree on this text and to achieve the majority that you and i wanted for this directive. without the contribution of our colleagues on the left, for which i am grateful, this directive would not have the credibility that it will have, i am sure, tomorrow after a very broad vote, as you said for supervision, which was essential, for this directive, which was also essential. i would also like to thank your teams, mr minister, and i would ask you to convey the rapporteur's thanks to them. sometimes the debates were a little heated, but i am a southerner, even though i went to normandy, and sometimes the southern temperament prevails over the norman swing. and i also wanted to tell you, mr minister, mr president of ecofin, that i hope that before the end of the year we will close the rating agencies. we shall vote in committee on 22 december in strasbourg and if the council is ready, we are ready. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the global financial crisis has shown that international financial transactions should be subject to a minimum of regulation. after having stated in september that it was prepared to supervise the markets, the european parliament sent a new strong signal to the rest of the world on 11 november. the alternative funds (hedge funds) which will now enter europe will be more rigorously supervised and regulated by europe. they will also have to be declared to the authorities and managed within the european union. the lack of regulation of these resources has been the cause of many bankruptcies, stock market crashes and social crises. france will take over the presidency of the g20 for one year. the first priority will be to reform the international financial system. with this vote, europe is in the lead.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the citizens of europe need more than ever a europe of solidarity and ambition, a europe that is social but conquering, i would like to welcome mr barnier's approach. this approach, the single market act, is a global approach, with an approach to the internal market as a whole, a collegial approach. mr barnier, you have been able to bring together around a table a number of european commissioners interested in the whole of this document - an open approach, since you are here today to debate it, so that each of us can feed it with our thoughts, a citizen's approach, since you want to put the citizen back at the heart of the internal market, but also the company, and i think that is indeed the main issue for the coming months and years. and then this approach is political, and i think that europe, above all, needs more politics, and that is certainly also one of the responsibilities of our parliament. i would like to focus on the point of services of general interest. like you, i think we need more legal certainty and less of a legislative framework. in the econ opinion which i am to propose, i am talking about a road map for the organising authorities; you're talking about a toolbox. we are already joining, although, semantically, we will have to take a step together. i think that we will have to work precisely on this toolbox, which will be a real challenge, and also on transparency for all users and all those who wish to provide the service of general interest.
mr president, europe is at a turning point and it must respond with ambition and determination to an economic and financial crisis which, of course, affects the european citizens first and foremost. i would like to welcome the initiative of commissioner barnier, who deserves to be congratulated on the method he has used and intends to use in the years ahead. i also welcome the change in the commission's approach to the internal market. there is a feeling of voluntarism, a desire to work together to make this beautiful project of the internal market a success. i am glad that the external dimension of our internal market is finally being taken into account, both for the promotion of our industries and for the defence of our citizens. only by being strong on the inside can we weigh on the outside. you know, i am as convinced as you are of the internal market, but not just any internal market, and that is why i will end with this quote from jacques delors who said: 'i reject a europe which is only a market, a free trade area, without a soul, without a conscience, without political will and without a social dimension'. with the single market act we have that political will and that soul.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few months after professor monti's report calling for the necessary revival of the internal market geared to the citizen, i welcome the commission's response and i particularly note the improvement in the recognition of professional qualifications, the support for smes, the new legislation on public procurement and service concessions, legal certainty for the social economy. so i welcome this ambition. but i regret that in the fifty proposals no clear priorities were set. i am concerned about the strategy of fragmentation between the different dgs and commissioners and call on mr barroso to be more involved in order to avoid contradictory proposals. finally, i regret the absence of any concrete commitment on services of general interest, whereas we have been calling for protective legislation for years, something which the lisbon treaty now allows. i am therefore waiting, mr barnier, to see the final texts so that i can really make a statement and possibly support you in this major challenge for the future of europe and all its citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs maria da graça carvalho, who has done an extraordinary job, and also the european commission, and i would ask you, commissioner, to convey my thanks to mrs geoghegan-quinn, who has appreciated this simplification and communication. we must simplify the future, but we must also solve the past. the commission's auditors should never have applied stricter rules than those already approved and therefore, madam commissioner, the past must be put to rest. we have come close to disaster with research institutes that were distrustful of the european union and now, with discernment, while respecting good management and using the tolerable risk of error, but also taking into account independent counter-audits, and if necessary - as i proposed, and as was accepted - the implementation of an independent mediator, we must regain the trust of all our research institutes, of course with good controls and european funding; we will then move on to negotiating the next budgetary perspectives so that we can set our research course more precisely, so that research can be more europeanised in a relationship of trust between the member states and the european union.
member of the commission. − madam president, the debate today demonstrates that further progress was achieved in 2009 in the management of the european budget. the clear opinion of the court on the accounts and the lowest error rate ever for the whole budget, as disclosed by our external auditor, confirm that the commission took the right decisions and proposed adequate measures to improve the performance of the programmes under the current financial period. however, the court also highlights the areas where further progress is needed by all financial actors. i refer, of course, to the commission, and also to financial actors in the member states whose obligations and responsibilities under shared management have been clearly reinforced under the new treaty on the functioning of the european union. many of you talked here about the application of sanctions to the member states, and i have to say that the commission applies sanctions very rigorously. just now, we are in the process of the suspension or interruption of 40 cohesion programmes amounting to eur 1.75 billion. that is a huge amount, and what is more important is that the number of actions in 2010 almost doubled compared with the number of actions in 2009. just last friday, we also made a decision to call back unduly spent money in agriculture to an amount of more than eur 578 million; so we really apply these sanctions rigorously and we intend to do so in the future. you can also see from the report by the court of auditors that the level of recoveries and financial corrections has increased significantly over the years, amounting in 2009 to eur 3.3 billion. that is also a very significant amount, and our intention is to continue this policy and apply sanctions very rigorously when this is needed. the court’s report, and the discharge procedures starting now, will be instrumental not only in addressing the weaknesses of the current programmes but also in drawing lessons for the next generation of programmes. the court rightly pointed out the way forward, which is, of course, simplification and improvements in the procurement rules, because it is true that the vast majority of errors were made because of the violation of eligibility criteria or of procurement rules. we have to learn lessons from this, and the commission is ready to do so. it will follow up on the court’s recommendations and is looking forward to a fruitful discharge procedure.
president of the court of auditors. − madam president, honourable members, thank you for all the kind comments that you have addressed to the court on this occasion, as a tribute also to those who work in our institution each day addressing, with the highest professional standards, and in accordance with international audit standards, the concerns of this institution. we pay due attention to the recommendations of this house and let me just give you two examples of what we have done in this annual report for 2009 to address the request from this institution for more information. we provide you with an overall assessment of the situation; for the first time, we say what the overall situation is. we conclude that it has improved over recent years; the most likely errors for the whole budget are decreasing. we have also provided you, in particular in the area of cohesion, with more information than last year, because last year we said that at least 11% of the funds should not have been paid; this year we are able to say that the most likely error estimated is indeed over 5%, which we could not say last year, and that at least 3% of the funds should not have been reimbursed. this is the measure of the progress we have found. these are facts. why? what are the reasons behind this? what progress have we achieved? we are not inventing facts; we are not being kind to the commission or kind to the member states. the court is an independent audit institution governed by the treaty. we base our findings on the evidence and it is what we report to this institution, which we have the obligation to assist in this discharge procedure. we are willing to assist you in this work and the main reason for this, as we said in our report, is that on the one hand the systems put in place to manage the funds for this programme period 2007-2013 are performing better. the other reason is that the disbursement of funds for the programming period is only 25% so the financial execution for the period is in our evidence lower than what should be expected. so the combination of these two factors – better performance of the systems on the one hand and lower execution, so fewer payments effectively made, on the other – has given us the situation where we now are. this is where we have this word of caution. we have to see how things evolve now with the systems behaving so well across all the 27 member states and with all the funds to be disbursed in the future. so a word of caution. but i said that we are willing to assist this house, and particularly the committee on budgetary control, in its discharge. our members will assist you with that and provide you with all the information you need. but we are also assisting you through our special reports. you can find audits and other elements which look at the impact of the funding in real life, at how effectively they have been used, and i think that this is very valuable information for this institution also. clearly the responsibility for implementing the budget lies primarily with the european commission, but the lisbon treaty says also in cooperation with the member states. if we have to look forward, i would say that we now have a unique opportunity to build a new momentum for a better management of the european union budget. a new financial regulation is being discussed and will be adopted soon and that will be the basic line to decide and guide the management for future progress. if we have to have simple rules, if we want to have more efficient, cost-effective systems to manage them through the member states and within the commission, that is the moment to address those issues. the budget review is also on the table next year. so the commission, the council, the european parliament are therefore confronted now with a period for taking serious decisions to improve the situation in the future. if the european court of auditors can assist in that, i would suggest it should be by building on the recommendations that we have already put forward in our opinion on the key risks and challenges for improving the financial management of the union. when you look to the new generation of programmes for the period after 2013, i repeat, we have to ask: are the programmes of funding schemes likely to add value to the european union? are we putting forward schemes which are simple, with clear objectives, realistic to execute and whose accountability lines are clear? we want to avoid the uncertainty where we are sometimes claiming that there is no responsibility either on the side of the commission or on the side of the member states. we have the opportunity now and the court of auditors is looking forward to assisting you in this task.
in writing. for the first time in 16 years, the european court of auditors has issued a positive certificate of assurance on the reliability of the annual accounts and on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it is the end of a cycle which began with the resignation of the santer commission in 1999. this is due to the european parliament and its committee on budgetary control's insistence on the commission and, in the case of shared management, the member states, managing european public money properly. i welcome the work of the court. i cannot understand why the union does not count the €37.2 billion that the member states owe for staff pensions as assets, with the result that they have negative equity (around €44 billion). what an image we give ! i wonder how we will be able to borrow from the markets to finance the 60 billion for the stability plan. i think that this report is too late. in any serious organisation, the auditor's report should be submitted by 30 june following the year under review. the arguments of complexity and multilingualism are not acceptable.
in writing. in its annual report on the implementation of the 2009 budget, the court observes on the reliability of the accounts that some consolidated entities did not provide any consolidated accounts declaration, or submitted an amended declaration. the european police college is one of those entities for which the necessary information has been missing for several years. the consequences are significant, as after a thorough analysis of cepol's accounts in july 2010, accounting corrections are made. indeed, the agency's 2009 financial report reviews the accounting management of the 2008 and previous financial years, estimating the budgetary impact of the corrections at around 13% of the agency's current budget. since the college became a community agency on 1 january 2006, the court of auditors has only expressed a reservation on the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2007. this was not enough to put the accounts in order before 2010.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, as in 2007, international cereal prices are soaring and, as in the previous two years, farmers are seeing their production costs explode. the cattle feed accounts for 60 to 80 percent of the costs, and their incomes collapse - 700 euros a month, on average, to live on! we must wait until the successive crises destroy european farming before we act. consumers pay 17 euros a kilo for a snack at the supermarket and producers get 3 euros a kilo, is this normal? parliament gave its opinion on 7 september by voting on the report on fair incomes for farmers. he called on the commission to act swiftly and to prohibit sales below production costs. meps voted in strasbourg to strengthen producer organisations, to stop speculation on international markets and to control the weight of companies in processing and distribution. farmers want more: they want the establishment or strengthening of common market organisations, the only tools capable of stabilising costs and offering long-term economic visibility. next week commissioner cioloş will present his proposal for reform of the cap, and he will have to give clear answers to the farmers. the credibility of europe is at stake. europe needs all its peasants.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, we must resolutely learn from the lessons of current policies. we should decide to stop this total liberalisation of agricultural markets which means that farmers are earning, as has just been said, between 700 and 800 euros a month, while consumer prices for meat have increased by 40%. decide to stop these abusive imports and stop negotiating this bad deal to import 400 000 tonnes of beef from the mercosur countries, which would devastate entire regions. on the contrary, have the courage to protect european agriculture and stop letting the world trade organisation decide the fate of our farms. set up new tools for regulated production. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. act to put an end to this abominable grain speculation. commissioner, there is an emergency, there are dramas brewing in our countryside. the european project itself is discredited by laissez-faire.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what a world the agricultural world is! a year ago, in this house, we all complained about the state of all production. today one production sector is doing better than others, namely the cereals sector - i think that is something to be welcomed - but unfortunately there are very serious repercussions on another sector, namely livestock farming. the real question we are faced with today is the inability of the agricultural world to pass on to the consumer the burdens it has to bear. we must therefore - as has already been said this morning - encourage the organization of producers in such a way as to enable them to have a say in relation to their customers, and in particular in relation to the large retailers. but the supply chain, the way markets work, is more pernicious. how can we explain that for decades, for years, we have said that the south american countries were weighing on production, were driving down prices? and what about today, when prices are rising again in these countries, we are unable to have an impact on our producers because, of course, the costs have increased, but - it must also be said - the prices for production are not rising? how can we ignore the differences in the burden of work between our countries? it is true that some of these are national responsibilities. but the dumping that is taking place between our countries is contributing to the destabilisation of the markets and i think europe must tackle this. yes, we have to find solutions. i think that the european cereal producers are aware of the situation of their main customers, the farmers. they are prepared to commit themselves to a contractual policy. are you prepared, commissioner, to support this policy?
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote you are about to take concerns one of the key elements of europe's response to the financial crisis, namely the regulation of alternative funds, including hedge funds and private equity. this compromise document, this compromise text, has been drawn up at great length. we have managed to reach a broad agreement and i would like to congratulate the belgian presidency, which has been directly and strongly involved in this matter, in particular through the active presence of the minister at the crucial trilogues, and i would also like to thank commissioner michel barnier, whose action has been particularly useful. i would also like to thank my colleagues, the fictitious rapporteurs, the staff of the secretariat and the experts who have assisted us. it took more than 14 months to complete, and there were 1690 amendments. it was a lot of work, but i believe that we are now arriving at a text which, thanks to the belgian presidency, represents a significant step forward in european financial regulation.
in writing. i am abstaining out of consideration for irish workers brutalized by globalisation. in the situation where they are being plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might feel entitled to vote against the paltry alms that the eurocracy is giving them at the tip of their fingers. but the little you give can ease their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is no less odious. he endorses the relocations that the owners of sr technics have put in place to multiply their profits.
in writing. the financial crisis that has hit the european union hard is the result of the unbridled activity of many investment funds, especially those from the united states. among these, alternative funds, hedge funds , are characterized by aggressive speculation. this seems to be one of the major causes of the disaster, the consequences of which we are still suffering today. in order to protect the european market from the excesses of these alternative funds in the future, i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr jean-paul gauzès. this text is a major step forward in financial regulation. with this vote, we are strengthening esma's powers. this european financial market authority will be established on 1 january 2011 and will issue under strict conditions a passport allowing the activity of alternative fund managers located in the european union. the directive requires them to be authorised or registered, to comply with operational and organisational requirements, rules of conduct and transparency. it will submit them to the supervisory and sanctioning powers of the competent authorities of the member states and esma. fund managers located outside the european union will henceforth be subject to the same rules as european funds.
in writing. as growth in the european union is still suffering from the consequences of the 2008 economic crisis, i voted in favour of the jean-paul gauzès report because it helps to streamline the financial system by better regulating investment funds. indeed, hedge funds have been denounced as having contributed to the worsening of the crisis. by creating a system of 'european passport', the european union is imposing a sort of 'code of conduct' on these financial institutions, which will now have to comply with certain conditions within the european area. the single market thus becomes more transparent and more efficient.
in writing. after the parliament's vote, the eu will finally regulate the activity of the most speculative investment funds! how late since poul rasmussen's own-initiative report, which as early as 2008 proposed to impose strict limits on these "black holes of finance". it took the financial crisis for the member states and the majority of parliament to agree to adopt binding legislation on alternative funds. for the first time, these funds, whether or not they are based in europe, will be subject to controls, activity restrictions and greater transparency; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. much remains to be done to effectively manage finance in europe; the european authority should be the only competent authority, rather than the national authorities, and companies should be even better protected against speculation. without the conservatives' reluctance, the union could have adopted more stringent and effective legislation. it's just a first step. the text we have adopted will be revised in four years. it will be an opportunity, on the basis of an assessment, to go further to protect the economy and jobs from the damage of speculation.
in writing. new rules for better economic governance continue to be put in place but still not enough the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the member states to be given the opportunity to present their own case. alternative investment fund managers, representing nearly usd 1 trillion in assets, play an important role in financing the european economy. even if these funds are not directly at the origin of the financial crisis, their management must not escape the imperative of regulation of all financial services actors. parliament has obtained the inclusion of new chapters on asset allocation and remuneration. , has significantly influenced the rules on the passport system, depositary liability, capital requirements and the use of leverage.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the compromise reached after months of negotiations on the regulation of hedge fund managers. i voted for it because, even if it is insufficient, it would be unacceptable that certain investment funds could still act with impunity, given the role they have played in amplifying and spreading the crisis. i particularly regret the weakness of the provisions on leverage, the weakness of the guarantees for offshore funds that will be able to obtain a passport, the weakness of the obligations incumbent on private equity funds, which often specialise in the dismantling of unlisted companies. i regret that we have to accept that these predators can operate throughout the union with minimal registration and controls. but should we have waited any longer for a text which is not intended to regulate hedge funds but only their managers, and to manage risk rather than prevent speculation?
in writing. i voted for the text on alternative investment fund managers because it is essential to legislate on this part of the financial markets, which implements extremely risky strategies that are harmful to employment and the real economy. many advances are welcome, such as the setting of the remuneration of fund managers so that it does not encourage and reward excessive risk-taking, to name just one example. the directive is clearly a step in the right direction, even if it has some major shortcomings. it is particularly regrettable that the framework is left to national authorities and not to the recently created european authority esma when voting on the financial supervision package. we must remain vigilant and prepare now for the next steps to put markets back at the service of the economy and prevent further financial crises.
in writing. the gauzès report is unfortunately a missed opportunity to effectively regulate the hedge funds which are at the root of the crisis. despite their destructive role and the risk they pose to the current financial architecture, the council and parliament have bowed to the intense lobbying of the financial sector to keep these highly profitable tools for the benefit of a minority. i therefore voted against this report which maintains the possibility for alternative funds based outside the eu to be marketed there without having to comply with the new european rules. it's a gaping hole that's destroying all the progress of this new legislation.
in writing. i would like to welcome the excellent report by jean-paul gauzès on the alternative investment fund managers directive. this report will make it possible to introduce more transparency, supervision and rules of conduct in the regulation of financial markets. this is a successful first step which i hope will be followed by other initiatives aimed at a thorough and comprehensive reform of the financial architecture.
in writing. i vote against this text and the amendments of the european parliament contained therein. this text does not regulate anything, contrary to what it claims. voting for this text would be a victory for the financial lobbies over the general interest of the people.
in writing. the gue/ngl voted against this report on hedge funds. despite the number of pages and the apparent energy of the rapporteur, this report is frighteningly weak. the content of it is simply not up to the challenges we face. the proposals announced are often the opposite of what should be done to avoid a new financial crisis like the one of the subprime mortgages in autumn 2008. it will therefore not allow the european parliament to exert pressure on the commission and the council to stop this policy of budgetary austerity which is gradually destroying all the instruments of social policy. this is a bad sign on the eve of the g20 meeting chaired by nicolas sarkozy.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for entry into the european union. until recently, taiwan and the northern mariana islands were listed in annex i to the regulation and were therefore subject to this visa requirement. since taiwan does not pose any illegal immigration risk or threat to public policy for the union and the northern mariana islands nationals are, as holders of a us passport, citizens of the united states, it has become necessary to move these territories from the restrictive regime in annex i to the more flexible regime in annex ii. i therefore supported the rapporteur's position allowing this transfer.
in writing. on 11 november the european parliament voted in favour of taiwan being added to the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states, and i am very pleased that this resolution has been adopted. firstly, many other countries in the same geographical area (hong kong, macao, japan, south korea, etc.) have already enjoyed the same visa exemption for some time. secondly and most importantly, visa liberalization is a great way to encourage links and rapprochement between people, between citizens: students, researchers, simple travellers, etc., and i am convinced that it will promote closer cooperation in the fields of education, culture, research, and tourism between the european union and taiwan.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 663/2009 of the european parliament and of the council established the european energy recovery programme (eerp) to contribute to economic recovery by providing a financial envelope of eur 3.98 billion for the years 2009 and 2010. aid for sustainable energy investment is most effective and profitable when concentrated at the local level. that is why i voted in favour of this text. it provides for the creation of a financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives that have a rapid, measurable and substantial impact on economic recovery in the union, enhancing energy security and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the beneficiaries of the instrument are public authorities, preferably at local and regional level, and public or private bodies acting on behalf of those public authorities.
in writing. in the current difficult economic environment, this financial instrument, by allowing €146 million of uncommitted appropriations to be devoted to energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects by 2014, will help to support growth and stimulate the recovery of economic activity in the eu, while fighting climate change and promoting environmental protection. i support this and i shall vote in favour of the report by my colleague kathleen van brempt.
in writing. the unique relationship between the european union and the united states is one of the strategic pillars of the european union. together representing half the world economy and united by the common values of democracy and human rights, the transatlantic partnership is also a guarantor of global stability. the forthcoming eu/us summit is an important moment in this cooperation. i voted for this text because it emphasises the challenges and obligations of this cooperation. the resumption of dialogue between our two great powers and the promotion of multilateral negotiations, which is the policy of the new administration, will be a major factor in the success of the negotiations. obama also stresses the importance of this text. in this context, it set out guidelines for the next summit, notably on the israeli-palestinian conflict, the iranian nuclear issue, nuclear disarmament and the transatlantic security pact. it also called for the strengthening of the transatlantic economic council and stressed the need to reform the international financial system, develop cooperation in the fields of energy, the environment, intellectual property and consumer protection, and judicial and police cooperation.
in writing. the relationship between the united states and europe is unique and historic. the resolution voted by parliament today, which i supported, underlines the importance of ever greater cooperation between our countries and of a permanent intensification of our relations, particularly in the context of the economic crisis and the terrorist threat to the west. i also welcome the inclusion of the monetary issue in the resolution, which shows our desire to rebuild the international monetary system at a time when currency wars are undermining the growth of the european union. this is a friendly but firm signal to our transatlantic allies on the eve of the opening of the g20 summit.
in writing. the european union and the united states are two areas that have been hit very hard by the economic and financial crisis; the european parliament has been trying to reassert our resolve to find a common response to this crisis and the need to strengthen economic cooperation in order to get out of this difficult period once and for all. i believe that to this end, the completion of a transatlantic market by 2015 is a good way to further develop the economic relationship between our two areas and to be stronger in the face of the upheavals in the global economy. in addition, because the us and the eu are longstanding partners who share many values (democracy, respect for human rights), we want a transatlantic inquiry to be set up to shed light on the allegations of torture in iraq. finally, as the terrorist threat seems to be growing, i would like the eu and the us to cooperate fully in this area, without however adopting measures which might be too intrusive to people's privacy. we wanted to remind you of this in the run-up to the next eu-us summit.
in writing. i supported the resolution in which the european parliament gave its recommendations to the council on how to address transatlantic issues at the next eu/us summit. given the weight of the european union and the united states in the world economy and the current economic situation, it is essential that the two partners intensify their cooperation in order to promote growth and employment. that is why i particularly supported the two oral amendments tabled by my colleague, mr elmar brok, which stressed the need for better coordination of monetary policies in the transatlantic relationship. these two amendments are to be linked to the debate which is opening up in the g20 on the risks to all the economies of our planet posed by 'currency wars' and any national monetary initiative which could destabilise the exchange rate balance. any 'competitive devaluation' or 'competitive undervaluation' must be avoided, since they undermine the necessary international economic and monetary cooperation.
in writing. the resolution on transatlantic relations as adopted is a plea for a special relationship with the united states. the european union is also committed to the creation of a transatlantic market by 2015 and to the political objective of 'defending a common cause'. this common cause, which involves increased cooperation in afghanistan, closer integration with nato missions and compliance with us demands for the sharing of european citizens' banking data via the swift agreement, is why i voted against this text.
in writing. the only merit of this resolution is that it advocates the universal abolition of the death penalty and calls on the united states to join the international criminal court. other than that, it's unacceptable. how can parliament support the creation of the transatlantic single market, this gigantic project which has been set up behind the backs of the citizens of europe? how can it welcome the swift agreement, the transfer of pnr data, the 'open skies' agreement between europe and the united states, the greenhouse gas emission allowance exchange and the anti-democratic institutions preparing for gmt? i vote against perjury in the public interest and democracy.
in writing. transatlantic relations are of paramount importance to europe, and i supported this resolution on the priorities for the next eu-us summit. in particular, efforts to implement the un reform agenda in the field of global governance must be intensified. in addition, it is essential to achieve an ambitious and binding post-2012 greenhouse gas emissions regime. in addition, in the area of financial stability, the comparability of accounting standards at global level is crucial and progress must be made in this direction. on the other hand, regulatory standards established in one area should serve as a reference for others, thus leading to an ever-increasing density of international financial regulation.
in writing. the european union has signed agreements with various states on the exchange of passenger name record (pnr) data in order to meet air safety requirements. the lisbon treaty also gives the charter of fundamental rights a binding force, which protects the personal information of european citizens. when these trade agreements are renewed, parliament is called upon to give its approval to the new agreements negotiated. two needs clash on this issue. on the one hand, the fight against organised crime and terrorism, which is being multiplied by the new means of communication, and on the other hand, the protection of privacy and fundamental freedoms, which are being jeopardised by these same means of communication. i felt it was important to support this text, which continues transatlantic cooperation against organised crime and terrorism while leaving ample room for the necessary guarantees of the freedoms of european citizens.
in writing. the transmission of passenger name record (pnr) data is an important element in the fight against terrorism and transnational crime. however, the number of countries requiring airlines to provide pnr data is constantly increasing, and it is therefore necessary to closely monitor the misuse of personal information of european citizens for other purposes in the light of european data protection rules. i therefore fully support the resolution adopted today by the european parliament, which aims to provide a strict framework for the transfer of passenger data to third countries. these countries will have to provide guarantees on the use, storage and collection of this data, which should prevent misuse and respect the rights of our citizens.
in writing. to safeguard the security of international transport, especially in the face of the risk of terrorism, it is essential that states can exchange passenger information - pnr data, collected by air carriers. but it is equally crucial that these provisions do not infringe the fundamental freedoms of citizens and do not lead to discrimination against certain people on the grounds of their origin or religion. the protection of personal data must therefore be better guaranteed. the european parliament, before the commission starts negotiating the terms of exchange of pnr data with the usa, canada and australia, has a clear requirement: the protection of personal data is too sensitive a subject for these negotiations to take place at the level of the member states alone and in opacity. they must be conducted in a transparent manner at eu level. the data transmitted should be used only within a strictly defined framework and should not be transmitted to a third country. many information will have to be excluded from the collectable data, especially those related to ethnic origin and religious beliefs.
in writing. the protection of personal data is a sensitive area in eu-us relations, as in the case of the agreement on bank data transfers (swift report). a general eu-us agreement on data protection is currently under discussion, as is a new agreement on the sharing of air passenger name records (pnr). in voting today's joint resolution, parliament has just reiterated its demand that pnr data collected should not be used for data mining or profiling purposes under any circumstances. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. if parliament is not heard, it will have the opportunity to exercise its right of veto.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the global strategy for the transfer of passenger data to third countries, as there is a need to establish a binding legal framework for these transfers, which are increasingly being used in the fight against terrorism. in preparing for these negotiations with the usa, canada and australia, parliament set out its conditions. we are asking in particular that the data cannot be used for profiling purposes and that the negotiation be conducted in the greatest transparency vis-à-vis parliament. parliament's role in the process of european integration is to be strengthened. the protection of privacy is a sensitive issue which must not be sacrificed to the other necessity of the fight against terrorism. as in the negotiation of the swift agreement, parliament will be able to ensure that citizens' privacy is respected.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's external strategy on passenger name record (pnr) data, as i believe that the conclusion of agreements allowing the exchange of information on pnr data between the european union on the one hand and canada, the united states and australia on the other hand is of paramount importance for international security. i therefore welcome the commission's recommendation to authorise the opening of negotiations for the conclusion of these agreements. the usefulness of the exchange of such data in the fight against terrorism and international crime has been established for several years. these international transfers of pnr data provide law enforcement agencies in our states with valuable tools in the fight against the terrorist threat. it is also necessary to emphasize that the new overall approach to pnr data presented by the commission last october, which aims to set general criteria specific to all pnr agreements, is in my view very positive. it will provide a more structured and coherent framework for these agreements and provides for significant guarantees in terms of the protection of personal data.
in writing. this resolution is in total contradiction to the one this house adopted last may. it 'welcomes' (sic) the commission's proposal of last september. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the exchange of pnr data between member states. worse, their unlimited storage for profiling purposes is considered legitimate! what are the thoughtful remarks in this resolution against a practice that is at the heart of a project it endorses? i am voting against this resolution which infringes the right of every human being to have his personal data respected.
in writing. according to the commission's estimates, demographic changes are likely to profoundly alter the structure of the population and the age pyramid. the number of young people aged 0 to 14 will rise from 100 million to 66 million by 2050. the working age population is expected to peak at 331 million by 2010 and then decline steadily (to around 268 million by 2050). faced with this situation, the european union must respond adequately to safeguard employment for both older and younger people. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by the european parliament which calls on the member states to consider the possibility of abolishing the mandatory retirement age but also outlines a policy to combat discrimination, to set as an objective lifelong learning, to develop a reflection on new forms of work organisation in enterprises, particularly to reduce stress. the resolution also contains a number of initiatives, such as the fight against youth unemployment and for a decent retirement, and a european pact for people over 50.
in writing. there was a lot of good in thomas mann's own-initiative report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations, including the importance of the generational pact in our present societies, youth unemployment and the need to tackle the challenges facing older people and young people in parallel. i voted against the resolution, however, because some of its paragraphs were unacceptable, particularly on the subject of pensions. fortunately, the one explicitly mentioning the need to replace the systems of financing pensions by distribution with systems of financing by capitalisation was rejected by a large majority in parliament, but another, which called on 'the member states to reconsider the possibility of abolishing the compulsory retirement age', was adopted. that is completely unthinkable! if greater flexibility is to be ensured in the pension system, the retirement age must remain a fundamental pillar! the commission's consultation on the future of pensions in europe is coming to an end, and the message from parliament is particularly important. that is why i have decided to vote against the resolution.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that the mann report, which also contains good things about promoting policies in favour of families, reconciling work and family life, access to employment for young people and the elderly, etc., still fails to promote immigration as a solution, even a partial one, to the ageing of our countries, or even to financing pensions. in all countries, including france, studies show that this is not the case. not just demographically, but financially. even mrs tribalat, a french demographer who can hardly be accused of sympathy for the front national, comes to these conclusions. i know that in this chamber we like to believe, according to the slogan of the sos racisme association, that "mohamed will pay for maurice's pension" .... for karl, for matthew or for juan! but that's not true. all over the place. mr mann should also be careful when he advocates replacing our allocation systems with capitalisation systems. given the current context of global financial crisis, this is the kind of proposal that can lead our elders to ruin, to the benefit of a few madoffs.
in writing. solidarity between generations is one of the main social challenges of european and national policies for the coming years, and in the face of the ageing of the european population. this report rightly stresses this value of solidarity, the need for solidarity between generations, the importance of the pact between generations, and it contains very positive elements, for example on reconciling work and family life and the organization of working time, particularly for women, on access to employment for young people and the elderly, on the fight against discrimination... on the other hand, there are many points in the report with which i do not agree: paragraph 24 which calls for the abolition of the compulsory retirement age, several passages on flexibility in the organization of work and the simplification of social law, and a passage on the abolition of early retirement schemes. i therefore preferred to abstain from voting on this report. i am also pleased that the proposal to replace the system of financing pensions by distribution with a system of financing by capitalisation has nevertheless been rejected by the european parliament.
in writing. i voted against the report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations because it contained unacceptable positions. there are some particularly interesting points in this text, such as the need not to oppose the employment of young people and the retention of older people in the labour market, and the emphasis on lifelong learning and the fight against age and gender discrimination in the labour market. but the text also contains many recommendations concerning pension systems which i cannot endorse: the text calls on the member states to abolish the legal retirement age and stresses the need to reduce the burden of public debt, which is tantamount to encouraging private pension funding systems, which are particularly unfair. the report also calls on the member states to increase the employment rate by developing parttime work, which only increases the level of precariousness. these are some of the reasons why i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted against the mann report because it is imbued with a liberal logic which takes the pretext of the ageing of the european population to advocate reforms of public social protection systems in europe, particularly by attacking the health and pension systems by way of distribution, encouraging their privatisation and a reduction in the age of retirement, which i reject.
in writing. the report argues that the extension of life expectancy should not result in a decrease in workers' rights. yet, that is what he is advocating all along. the european parliament will be committed to the following measures if it votes in favour of this report: raising the retirement age to the latest possible date beyond the 64 years promised by the europe 2020 strategy, promoting precarious employment, replacing the distribution pension with funded pension systems. i vote against this nameless social regression.
in writing. i voted against this report which once again shows the inability of the majorities governing europe to listen to the demands of the european citizens. although the european union has no competence in these matters, which are the exclusive competence of the member states, mr mann is undermining both the social acquis and the principle of subsidiarity. the report also calls on the member states to encourage people over 60 to stay longer at work by adapting workplaces to their health. the elderly must first and foremost have the right to a decent pension, which allows them to live with dignity. in addition, adaptation to the needs of end-of-career workers is mainly achieved through early retirement schemes, which mr mann purely and simply wanted to dismantle. i am, however, pleased that a passage explicitly calling for the replacement of the system of distribution by capitalisation has been rejected by the european parliament. under the guise of intergenerational solidarity, mr mann even felt the need to stress that older people must be treated equally as human beings with fundamental rights. (parliament adopted the resolution)
in writing. research and development are two major challenges for the future of the european union in the current global context. therefore, i supported the european parliament's initiative to simplify the implementation of the eu's research framework programmes. my colleagues and i have therefore considered that the european commission's communication on simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes proposes serious and creative measures to remove the obstacles faced by participants in the framework programmes. the aim is to increase the confidence of european funding in applicants and to make them more risk tolerant towards participants at all stages of the projects, with flexible european rules. the resolution reflects the fact that the current system is overly focused on controls, resulting in waste of resources and low participation. finally, we welcomed the general trend towards a reduction in average commitment and payment times, despite the fact that some progress can still be made.
in writing. it is essential to encourage researchers and investors to stay in europe. the fight against brain drain must remain a priority for the european union. to do this, we will have to reorient and simplify the administrative and financial aspects of the research framework programmes. the financial resources must be allocated more directly to our companies, universities and research laboratories. the research funding system, too focused on control, leads to a waste of resources. as the report points out, the general trend should be towards a reduction in average time to commit and pay in order to stimulate participation in these research programmes. we must fight against the administrative blockade which hinders the proper functioning of these programmes.
in writing. markets must operate on the basis of real stocks and needs and not on speculation, is the message that the european parliament wants to convey to the european commission by adopting the resolution on the livestock crisis in the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is a very important one.
in writing. the livestock sector is taking on the consequences of strict rules demanded by our institutions, the strictest in the world in terms of food safety and quality, the environment and animal health and welfare. unfortunately, the crisis in this sector is now showing negative consequences, leading to a considerable loss of income for producers, which cannot leave us indifferent. the minimum we have to promise, and which producers legitimately expect, is reciprocity of these import rules. as food security is a global concern in the longer and shorter term, europe must respond to maintain the viability of livestock farming when it is threatened. this investment for the future is indispensable. the economic impact of the desired regulations, in particular animal welfare legislation, must therefore be assessed and incorporated into a long-term reflection on the future of the agricultural sector and livestock in particular.
mr president, i would like to ask my colleagues something. there is an emergency in tibet and concern about china's desire to impose chinese on tibet. i think this is a matter which deserves to be debated in plenary with mrs ashton present. it is the current policy in tibet that is the problem, beyond this emergency. an emergency is good. if the majority wants to approach this issue from this angle, fine. for my part, and since the agenda is not too detailed in december, i would like us to debate this issue and the european union's policy towards china in the presence of mrs ashton and to adopt a resolution on this subject. i think that would be smarter.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the central bank, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally join in the praise of the ecb's activities and will not repeat what my colleague mr balz has said or what is contained in the resolution. i would simply like to say in the short time i have, that we must think of our fellow citizens. why do i say this in this way today? it is because, last night, on all french television channels, a future presidential candidate made a spectacle of himself by tearing up a ten-euro bill that he had photocopied and enlarged, and showing that by tearing up this bill, he would tear up what was the cause of all our ills. of course, that is not true. it would simply require that we all make a concerted effort to communicate. the work that has been done in the areas of supervision, organization and regulation, which you mentioned, mr president, is excellent. you have the support of parliament, as you know, and you said so yourself. but we have a real job to do in relation to our fellow citizens who do not understand the messages that are being sent. every day the press is talking about increasingly serious solutions, about unlikely situations, and i can tell you that on friday, when i was in the field - as we say in politics - i saw about 100-150 people. they all asked me the same question: what will happen to the euro? the fear of our fellow citizens is not in line with what is being done, and well done, by the european central bank.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to join in the praise of our rapporteur, who, i believe, has identified the issue well. in his report he highlights the innovations brought about by the lisbon treaty and i really want to thank you, mr trichet, for once again reminding us here tonight, those who seem to be unaware of it - including those who signed it and had it ratified - that the lisbon treaty contains a major innovation: we will be able to discuss publicly in this chamber the reform of the stability pact. the commission has drawn up, under the responsibility of mr rehn, a set of proposals which are going in the right direction, which are quite courageous, in particular by calling for greater discipline, by asking for the macroeconomic imbalances which mr balz had mentioned in his report to be taken into account. moreover, mr trichet, you have repeatedly referred to a 'quantum leap', that is to say a real step forward in this governance. i agree with jean-paul gauzès when he said: the commission's proposals are not only a good way of dealing with the problems of the environment, but also a way of dealing with the problems of the environment. i would like to remind you that the designers of the euro never thought that we would have, in the long term, a simple coordination of economic policies. what was envisaged was political union, that is to say, the ability to take decisions while being controlled by this parliament. for my part, what strikes me a little when we talk to the citizens is that we finally have motorists - the member states - who are both driving and on the side of the road to act as policemen. that's kind of the system now, where you're both the driver, the one who's giving tickets and the one who's supposed to be controlling the other cars. i don't think there is a single country where road traffic is like this. so we would like to increase the fines a little more and we will work on that. i thank you for pointing out that we have already done this in practice with regard to the reform of financial supervision, in the general european interest.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is deeply concerned by the deterioration of the cholera situation in haiti. the number of casualties among the hospitalised cases is increasing sharply day by day. the number of people admitted to hospitals comes to more than 20 000. at the end of last week more than 1 100 people had already lost their lives. but it is feared that these figures are severely underestimated. the fatality rate is very high and shows that people arrive too late at health centres. cholera treatment is simple, but early access to treatment is key to limiting fatalities. treating cholera patients also requires considerable human resources. the haitian public health system is now seriously overstretched, despite substantial support from the international community. médecins sans frontières, as one of the front-line medical actors, is calling on all groups and agencies present in haiti to step up the size and speed of their efforts. the whole country is now affected. the epidemic is spreading at an alarming rate in the capital, port-au-prince. slums such as cité soleil are especially prone to contagion due to very bad hygiene conditions and poor access to clean water. we are focusing on saving lives through prompt treatment of those affected, increasing access to clean water, promoting better hygiene behaviour and supporting epidemiological surveillance in order to know where and how the epidemic is evolving. the commission has reinforced its humanitarian presence with relevant medical expertise and mobilised funds – eur 12 million – to support partners in haiti. the european mechanism for civil protection has also been activated through the monitoring and information centre of the european commission and has already co-financed the transport of in-kind assistance provided by france. another offer from austria has just entered the pipeline. an eu civil protection and technical support team with member states’ experts is to be deployed early this week. experts from the european centre for disease prevention and control have been deployed by dg sanco to assess the best way to reinforce epidemiological surveillance in haiti, and further cooperation is under consideration. after the recent incidents related to civil unrest in cap haitien and port-au-prince, we are following closely the security situation with our partners and the relevant un agencies, particularly ahead of the presidential elections of 28 november. the commission was in touch with the un under-secretary general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief coordination, baroness amos. we fully support her in stressing the importance of allowing national and international aid workers to continue lifesaving activities without disruption. considering the serious and rapid deterioration of the cholera situation, further contributions are urgently required to fill gaps in health, water, sanitation, hygiene and logistics. priorities include medical personnel and other personnel specialised in water, sanitation and hygiene, as well as medical supplies, beds, water purification units and tablets. the commission is therefore in contact with the belgian presidency and the member states to encourage further eu support to help haiti at this very critical and difficult time. eu support can be channelled through the eu civil protection mechanism. the endless efforts of haitian and international aid workers to meet the current challenges on the ground are commendable, but it is clear that the sheer scale of the crisis requires even more assets and resources. we are therefore now working hard on stepping up our emergency response together with our partners, but difficult times are certainly ahead, due to the rapidly evolving situation. the continued solidarity of the international community with the haitian people remains absolutely essential. this is why i call upon you all to do your utmost to scale up the support of the member states in order to avoid a major humanitarian disaster.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs damanaki, the cholera epidemic has already killed more than 1 200 people and infected more than 52 000. so despite the strong presence of international organizations in haiti, the situation is deteriorating day by day and the epidemic could infect, in the coming months, some 400,000 people. i welcome the €12 million provided by the european commission and i support mrs georgieva's call for the member states to provide in-kind aid to enable water purification and to provide equipment. the provision of clean water and sanitation is the only way to reduce the number of infected. one of the priority actions is to reassure the population who are afraid of this disease, which is unknown in the country. communication to the population is essential to inform about the disease and prevent it, but also to prevent internal violence from developing, especially as the country is in an election period. this new crisis has once again highlighted the inability of the haitian authorities and health system to cope with this crisis. this country has suffered many disasters over the years. the earthquake in haiti showed the almost total inability of the local authorities. after the earthquake, there was a real political will to rebuild haiti in a different way and the promises of donations were many. almost a year later, reconstruction is still in the early stages and development actors are pessimistic. the european commission must play a leading role in the reconstruction process so that haiti can finally emerge from this chaos.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would first like to thank all my colleagues, and in particular the conference of presidents, for accepting this debate on haiti, proposed by my group. it was an emergency. in january last year, after the earthquake, the international community was very much mobilized for haiti. however, there seems to be a gap, if not a chasm, between the promises made and the aid actually delivered. last march, mrs ashton, on behalf of the european union, pledged $1.235 billion in aid to help the haitian people build a better future. as early as last july, ngos, and in particular msf, madam commissioner, were sounding the alarm and denouncing the pathogenic living conditions of hundreds of thousands of people. the situation has therefore hardly changed since then, and it is not surprising that the cholera epidemic is spreading rapidly. and the international community is once again showing compassion. more than a thousand people have died and the number of cases continues to rise, although experts say that the measures to prevent the deadly disease are relatively simple. but health workers are poorly trained in the disease and basic sanitary supplies are hard to come by. how, in such a context, can we not understand that riots have taken place. the haitian people are in a state of confusion. it's hard to keep the trust in the international community. so, commissioner, my questions will be simple: what is the situation with the aid promised by the european union to haiti, not just humanitarian aid? if she had arrived sooner, don't you think this new tragedy could have been avoided? how is it that once again international conferences seem to have produced nothing but broken promises? why is there no response to president préval's calls for the transformation of minustah to support reconstruction? finally, the haitian people want elections to take place, but under what conditions will they take place and what support will the european union give?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating our colleagues bilbao, gallagher, gróbarczyk and ferreira on their reports. i would like to express my satisfaction at the conclusion of parliament's first reading of the two multiannual plans for anchovy and chinchard. since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, parliament has been a co-decision-maker on these matters. as regards the anchovy stock, i welcome the text adopted by the committee on fisheries, which aims at the long-term management of a highly fished species. this plan will allow for joint management measures between the main fishing countries. live bait will be included in the quotas, which will allow more accurate monitoring of the quantities caught. i also welcome the measures taken to control this fishery. the control system for vessels must be the same in the various member states operating this stock. i would like to congratulate mr gallagher on his report. i know we'll adopt it tomorrow; it allows the sustainable exploitation of the stock of horse mackerel from a socioeconomic and environmental point of view. this plan establishes a new method for deciding on the total allowable catch which will ensure the long-term sustainability of the stock. i would also like to stress the importance of the principle of relative stability, which i particularly attach great importance to. the rapporteur stresses the need to combat waste, and this is welcome. on the other hand, like my colleagues, i regret that the council is contesting parliament's new co-decision powers on long-term management plans. i think that this legal basis problem must be solved, because it delays the implementation of the plans, which is essential for the conservation of the resource and the organization of fishing activity. we must also define once and for all the concepts of small-scale fishing and industrial fishing. this will allow the cfp reform to be approached on a sound and unquestionable basis. this is also suggested in the report by mr gróbarczyk, whom i thank for the quality of his work. on the other hand, a total ban on waste disposal is not realistic, as we all know. i hope that the european commission will support the sector which is setting up selective gear and making fishing economically and environmentally sustainable.
the s&d group believes that the european union should be able to take action to ensure that the health of the population is protected, and that the health of the population is protected. patients now demand independent, comparative and tailored information. unfortunately, the proposals for revision of the directive submitted by the european commission did not adequately respond to the needs expressed by european citizens. these proposals opened the door to direct promotion by pharmaceutical companies, which seems nonsense to us in terms of responding to the real needs of patients. this operation is of no interest to the citizens or to the member states. on the contrary, it means more bureaucracy, more costs and more risks for patients. for these reasons, we initially put forward a proposal to reject these texts, asking the commission to review its copy. this approach, also adopted by my colleague carl schlyter of the green group, has enabled our rapporteur, mr fjellner, whom i welcome, to make a major revision of the commission's proposals. in parallel, we tabled some 60 amendments to better protect the health of our citizens and to facilitate access for patients to independent, comparative and tailor-made information. the adoption of these amendments by the committee on the environment has allowed for a greater emphasis on patients' rights to information rather than making the provision of information an option for the pharmaceutical industries. in the light of the compromise amendments obtained, we have decided to withdraw our proposal to reject the texts, the substance of the text having evolved in the right direction in recent months. the draft report, as amended, succeeded in countering the initial proposals of the european commission. however, we will continue to refuse that health professionals can be instrumentalised to distribute to their patients brochures and information provided by pharmaceutical companies without any control by the health authorities. we will also oppose the authorization of industrial campaigns, particularly information campaigns, in the field of vaccination. information cannot come freely from pharmaceutical companies. experience shows that we must be very vigilant and what happened with the mediator drugs shows how vigilant we must be and make sure that we reach the point of equilibrium, as we have sought with this draft report.
madam president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, christofer fjellner, on the excellent work he has done over the past few months on these two reports. i say this all the more because we have been waiting for this text for years, since the older members of this parliament will remember that when we were revising the pharmaceutical legislation we wanted to talk about educating patients about medicines and treatments, but unfortunately there was a confusion between information and publicity. today, however, information must not be allowed to be disguised as advertising, and it is precisely in these reports that the right of firms to communicate is no longer in question, but the right of patients to access information. so we're in a completely different logical situation, and that's why the patient comes first. in fact, we say no to training without a request, which reduces the channels of dissemination and therefore the risks of advertising. patients will be able to seek out the information they want, not be forced to do so by radio or television, newspapers or magazines. and that's the difference with advertising. this requires prior verification of certain information. this control must be carried out by the national authorities and it must allow the creation of specialised, objective websites and also allow the use of specific paper media, as our commissioner, mr dalli, has explained. all the conditions are therefore in place to ensure that patients receive the good, objective information they have been waiting for. that is why it is absolutely necessary for the council to take responsibility and accept this publicity because we cannot accept finding any information on websites. we have been waiting for ten years, ten years for the council to decide.
madam president, as a result of the cameron government's policy of austerity, the united kingdom has just decided to stop financing the large tugs for the assistance and rescue of ships in the channel, a unilateral decision which is being denounced by the port, maritime, commercial and political actors in the area. the british withdrawal could have dramatic repercussions for the maritime security of this sector, which, with more than 250 000 ships a year, is the busiest trade route in the world. over the past decade, nearly 300 incidents have been recorded, and experts believe that the prearrangement of the high-powered rescue ships has prevented many of these incidents from becoming major accidents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. the european commission must therefore take up this matter. europe must give itself the means to implement the great integrated maritime policy which it officially calls its wish.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the use of violence against women in conflict zones is a deliberate tactic. rape is a massive, systematic, planned practice. it's a weapon of war. and, of course, we must condemn this violence. but beyond condemnation, statements are not enough, otherwise we're left with the spell. we need to find some way to move forward. i therefore propose that you consider three lines of action. firstly, i think we must be convinced that in all the conflict situations in which the european union intervenes, it must promote local women's organisations. respect for the basic principles of freedom and justice will be strengthened if he can rely on women. wherever women are given rights in the world, the issues of respect for human dignity and the values of equality and fraternity - which are those of the european union - will advance. secondly, when we europeans help countries in reconstruction, i think we should think about asking the governments and local authorities in place to help us set quotas for women in decision-making circles. i am thinking for example of the palestinian authority, which we are helping, which we are financing almost 100%. if we demand from this authority quotas for women in positions of political responsibility, the situation in the middle east could only benefit. finally, the third line of thought: wherever we intervene, with civilian means, police means or military means, i believe we must commit ourselves to giving women a meaningful and appropriate place in our own troops and our own operational delegations. we will be more effective and more likely to be accepted by the people, according to many witnesses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we decided at the last conference of presidents to put the matera report on today's agenda. no one asked that this report be taken off the agenda. the question the president is asking is therefore: will we be able to have frank discussions with such a person, as we have been accustomed to doing for five years? that's the question i'm going to ask you thursday morning. so if the ecr continues to have this person in the conference of presidents, we will change our working methods. that's all i have to say.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft decision on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund on the basis of the report by my german friend reimer böge, amounting to eur 13 million, to help ireland, which was hit by severe floods in november 2009. the amount of aid seems to me to be paltry (2.5% of a total damage estimated at eur 500 million), and this aid is much too late. i propose that we ask ourselves whether, rather than paying out paltry sums, we should not use some of these sums to finance a european civil security force to help states that suffer disasters beyond their capacity to cope with (fires, floods, natural disasters, cross-border disasters, etc.) or to take action in international cooperation in the event of a serious disaster such as that in haiti, for example.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund, which is designed to help countries facing natural disasters, has been mobilised 33 times since its creation eight years ago. it has proved its usefulness and its use for the floods of november 2009 in ireland, which everyone remembers, is in my view fully justified.
in writing. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i could only vote in favour of the six resolutions proposed by mrs matera to help dutch employees who have been made redundant for reasons directly linked to the global economic crisis. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an effective tool focused on the long-term reintegration of workers affected by the adverse effects of globalisation. i therefore believe that the use of this mechanism was fully justified in these specific cases. in the budget discussions some people wanted the european globalisation adjustment fund to be terminated immediately. we see that it is still very useful in some cases, as the global crisis is still having a real impact today.
in writing. a coincidence of timing: parliament has today had to decide on six applications for aid from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) submitted by the netherlands... while at the same time the 2011 budget negotiations are being trampled on by the opposition of the netherlands and two other member states to a responsible and constructive dialogue on the future of the european budget. today's votes are therefore an opportunity for me to remind you that the european budget is not just an accounting tool, which is considered by everyone to be a sham: it is above all the 'armed' arm of the european union, which works every day to protect its citizens, and, in particular, in the context of the egf, to protect dismissed employees. the vote on granting the egf aid to dutch employees could have been an occasion for a 'sanction vote' against the dutch government, which on the one hand criticises what it benefits from on the other. on the contrary, it was an opportunity for parliament to recall that the principle of solidarity must be the basis of all community decisions.
in writing. i voted against the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the faroe islands, not because i am against scientific cooperation between the union and the faroe islands, but because i believe that pressure must be put on the faroe islands to put an end once and for all to the repeated slaughter of the globescapal dolphins, which number nearly a thousand a year. i will vote against any future agreement or financial aid between the european union and the faroe islands as long as these massacres are being perpetrated.
in writing. i voted the resolution on the european central bank report on the basis of the excellent report by my german colleague burkhard balz. the ecb, which became a european institution by the treaty of lisbon, is independent but cannot be indifferent to the wishes of the citizens, represented by their parliaments, and the governments of the member states. i therefore support the call for transparency in the work and decisionmaking of the ecb. during the crisis, the ecb lowered its intervention interest rates to 1% and maintained unprecedented unconventional measures to support credit throughout 2009. these measures have borne fruit. i support the idea that the lifting of these measures should be considered and coordinated with national governments. in particular, it would be useful for the ecb to include a global, rather than a regional, assessment of inflation in its monetary policy for setting exit intervention rates.
in writing. the international financial system is definitely amoral and immoral. with the latest developments in the irish crisis, the banking sector is assured that it will be able to continue to pay its shareholders handsomely and take risks in the long term, with european governments and taxpayers still on hand to bail out the banks. privatization of profits and socialization of losses on a large scale... face i win and pile you lose... it is paradoxical and scandalous that the stock market turmoil over irish sovereign debt is the direct consequence of the aid the irish state has given to its banks. it is this support that has driven its deficit to unprecedented depths and its debt to explode. and the same people she saved, or their brothers, are speculating against her now. but the main lesson of all this is that the euro is a ball for most of its member states and that the ecb's policy, like the euro exchange rate, is only suited to germany. the countries that have done the best are those that have retained a degree of control over their currencies and interest rates. that is, their national currency! it's time for each of us to draw the conclusions.
in writing. the rapporteur rightly emphasises the need for improved coordination and the division of tasks between civilian and military resources in the field of crisis management. at present, the distinction between the strategic and operational dimensions remains vague. i therefore agree with the rapporteur in his proposal to create a permanent structure for operational planning and conduct of military operations. in the field of civil-military capacity building, it is desirable that member states set targets commensurate with their capabilities in terms of staffing. it would also be appropriate to establish genuine financial solidarity between member states. finally, a better synergy between civil and military research would be a major advantage, avoiding duplication and duplication and therefore unnecessary expenditure.
in writing. after being consulted by the commission, the european parliament was due to give its opinion on tuesday 23 november on the question of state aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines. the main sticking point was the deadline for these state aids. the commission proposed on 1 october 2014. for environmental reasons, i believe it is important to diversify our sources of energy production and to promote sustainable production methods. therefore, 2014 seems to be a reasonable deadline. however, given the social impact of mine closures and the difficult conversion of miners, it is necessary to accompany the closure process. the majority of the european parliament therefore decided to extend the state aid until 31 december 2018. i decided to abstain on this final vote because i believe that priority should be given to sustainable energy sources but that at the same time it is also important to take account of the economic and social consequences of mine closures.
in writing. the europeans want to support the closure of the last coal mines in europe by means of short-term state aid. while germany and romania get more than 40% of their electricity from coal, more than 100 000 people will be sacrificed on the altar of ultra-liberalism under the pretext of unadulterated competition and the green political correctness that wants us to produce electricity from wind. in their search for "renewable" energy, these countries may have to replace coal by buying nuclear power from their neighbours. i myself am a former miner, and it is not without a certain emotion that i recall all those french and european coal mines which were closed in pain and left whole regions abandoned. regions that have become economic and social deserts and often have not recovered. i cannot therefore, unfortunately, see that in this field, as in so many others, europe in brussels has not wanted to protect our industries and therefore our jobs, preferring to waste colossal fortunes on globalist projects so far removed from the problems of our fellow citizens.
in writing. as a member of the acp-eu (africa, caribbean and pacific) joint parliamentary assembly, i voted strongly in favour of this report on the work of that assembly in 2009. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is a unique institution which has established itself as an indispensable player in europe-africa relations and north-south relations. it has demonstrated a high quality of its work, based on the principles of cooperation, consultation, transparency and democratic dialogue, and on an increasingly close interaction between european parliamentarians and their acp counterparts. as the 20th session of this assembly opens in kinshasa, i would like to encourage the joint parliamentary assembly to continue its work and this cooperation. in particular, i voted for the paragraph which called for the introduction of a tax on international financial transactions and the elimination of tax havens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the work done with the acp countries (africa, the caribbean and the pacific). the european parliament stressed that the success of the joint parliamentary assembly was linked to an open, democratic and in-depth dialogue between the european union and the acp countries. the report also reaffirms the principle of the universality of human rights and reminds the council that the european parliament has repeatedly called for the inclusion of a very strict non-discrimination clause in the revision of the cotonou agreement. i particularly welcome the vote on an amendment calling for the taxation of financial transactions as a possible response to the crisis, although i have no illusions about the contradictory votes in the ep on this matter. the amendment calls for the examination of new innovative sources of development finance, such as a tax on international financial transactions, and also calls on the app to tackle the issue of the eradication of tax havens. we hope that this report will not remain a dead letter and that all the european institutions will be able to use it to build other relations with the acp countries.
in writing. we voted against this report. it is not acceptable to create a 28th legal system, even optional, in certain areas of civil law, to circumvent national systems. it is a great hypocrisy to claim that the diversity of these systems is a richness when one is also advocating a "regulatory emulation" allowing their convergence. that is, eventually, their standardization. it is unacceptable, above all, that under the guise of free movement of persons and non-discriminatory access to social benefits in the countries of residence, mutual recognition of civil status documents should be demanded. the real challenge behind this proposal is not to make life easier for european families living abroad in another eu country. the aim is to impose same-sex marriage and adoption by same-sex couples on states that do not recognize them in their own law. family law is strictly and exclusively a matter for the member states and must remain so. but the unilateral nature of german court decisions on child custody in the event of divorce of mixed couples and the abusive power of the jugendamt, denounced in petitions before us, must be put to an end.
in writing. i am pleased with the adoption of this report which welcomes the stockholm action plan and in particular its elements in the areas of civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law. the european union is working to build a 'european judicial area', and this area is based on the idea that judicial decisions must be able to 'circulate' within the union in the same way as people, to facilitate access to justice for european citizens. this 'common judicial area' implies a principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions by the member states; and this question of mutual recognition is essential in areas such as family law, contracts, inheritance and wills, marriage regimes and so on. these are essential areas of everyday life for everyone. our report stresses the importance of judicial training, legal education, the creation of networks between magistrates, the establishment of exchange programmes, and i fully support these objectives.
in writing. the stockholm programme 2010-2015, in the context of cooperation within the area of freedom, security and justice (afsj), is in fact laying the foundations for european supremacy in many areas in order to remove all remaining obstacles to 'free movement' between the member states of the union. whether it is fundamental rights, privacy, minority rights, 'citizenship of the european union' and asylum and immigration policy, this all-encompassing package is in fact a pretext to flatter the federalist ambition of the european bureaucratic superstate. i affirm that law and order and the whole of custom and tradition form a fundamental part of the soul and identity of a sovereign people and nation. supporting the idea of confused european harmonization, particularly in the areas of civil and family law, would be tantamount to denying the sacrifices made and the gains made over the centuries. france, which still enjoys some of the highest standards of social protection and justice in the world, will not benefit from any progress if it remains the victim of a europeist, globalist and ultra-liberal obsession.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget comes at a time when our citizens are doubting the fragility of their currency and europe is mobilizing in favour of the irish economy. contrary to what has been said about the european parliament's objectives in these negotiations, this is not a power struggle or an institutional quarrel. nor is it a question of ignoring the difficulties of our member states or the context of the public debt crisis which we all suffer. no, it is about enabling europe to live up to its commitments. social commitments, and i am thinking of lifelong learning; i am thinking here of assistance to countries affected by hunger riots. the commission has also made commitments to programmes that create jobs and growth, such as galileo or iter. the reality is that by adopting an accounting view rather than a political one, the few member states which persist in blocking the negotiations are serving the interests of 500 million europeans. by suggesting that the european parliament is the bad guy in this affair, that it wants to spend while the states tighten their belts, that it wants to consolidate the powers that the lisbon treaty has conferred on it to the detriment of savings and europeans, they are diverting attention from the reality of the problems. what is this reality? the latest economic forecasts do not allow us to hope for the return to the strong, sustainable and inclusive growth that the european union has set itself as its objective by 2020. the reality is also that the current draft budget does not take account of the financing of the new competences conferred on the union by the lisbon treaty and does not follow up our requests to carry out the mid-term review of the financial cycle provided for in the 2007-13 agreement. the reality is that the draft budget does not provide any funding, i say no funding, for the 2020 strategy. in short, the council adopts programmes and does not provide for their financing. and when the president of the european parliament reminds him of his obligations, he is offended, but when a local, regional or national authority votes on projects without financing them, it is condemned. i ask you why what is not acceptable at local or national level should be acceptable at european level? is this a way of reconciling our citizens with europe? i don't think he did. i say clearly to the commission and especially to the council: do not count on my group, do not count on this parliament to vote on programmes for which there is no guarantee of funding. my group wants to see a return to reason and a balanced agreement. it must be a comprehensive agreement covering both the 2011 budget, the 2010 amending budgets and the letters of amendment relating to them, the flexibility procedure and, finally, the guarantees for securing the financing of future policies, which we call the political strand. i would stress that our proposals on this political aspect do not involve any changes to the existing treaties and do not in any way prejudge the amount, origin or distribution of future union funding. i would also point out that the reopening of the debate on own resources is not a new proposal from parliament but a decision taken by the council itself in may 2006, following the agreement of december 2005 under the british presidency. my group fully shares the objective not only of a ceiling but of a reduction in the budgetary contributions of the member states. the extreme gravity of the debt crisis must lead to a complete recovery of european public finances. it is not just a question of dividing up the tasks between national and community budgets, but also of looking for all possible forms of sharing to generate savings. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the epp group shares the twofold demand expressed by the council on 15 october: that the community budget should contribute to the common financial discipline and that the financing of european objectives should be ensured. our position in the negotiations on the 2011 budget has no other objective and we are confident that an agreement can be reached if the presidency of the council negotiates well with its colleagues in brussels. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that if we listen to each other, we are at a crossroads in the history of the european union. the budget problem today, as everyone has said in his own way, is the problem of an idea of the development of the european idea. it's not just a budget. and there is something wrong with the idea of the european union, and we feel it every time in public debates. we are witnessing a renationalisation of european activity, a completely absurd renationalisation. why would you do that? because - and this is what we all say - you want the european union to be able to solve problems which you are no longer able to solve at national level, but at the same time you do not want to give the means not to the european parliament but to the european union. that is why we say that we do not defend the rights of parliament; we are simply defending the rights of the european union and the need for the european union. that is why, when we agree on three points today, we must agree on one thing here together. take it or leave it. and even if it takes two months, three months, four months - and it will be difficult for both sides - we will not accept the european budget unless there is agreement on the points we put on the table. so we should not be afraid that this will take a long time and that we may not see the budget in december, or even in january or february! if we start this debate but stop in the middle, then we've lost for the next four years. i therefore ask everyone to be responsible - guy verhofstadt explained it - for own resources. it is still simple and that is why alain lamassoure's idea of a convention is interesting because we have to discuss it in the european public space with the national parliaments, with the representatives of the governments, with the commissioners. the own resources are an opportunity to reduce - i say three times - to reduce - i say to all the conservatives - to reduce national contributions and at the same time to strengthen the european budget. it's not complicated! so if we manage to make this clear in the european space, the european citizens will agree with us. i repeat: reduce the national contribution and strengthen the european budget! yes, there will be european taxes. yes, but anyway, the austerity you are doing at the national level is going to lead you to disaster because we have known for years that austerity kills economic dynamism and, in the end, it does not lead to anything. so please, let us not strangle europe because governments are already strangling their economies at the national level. my final comment concerns ireland. ireland is the bankruptcy of neoliberalism, it is the bankruptcy of deregulation. for years, you and mr. griffith have been breaking our legs with "deregulate, deregulate, lower corporate taxes". well, you're there, it's the economic disaster and now, what is the irish government doing? he shouts "mom, mom, europe help us!" (the president cut the speaker off)
(replying to a blue-card question under rule 149(8)) mr president, europe is a political body. we have nation states with their own policies and we discuss policies. i will continue to say that one of the reasons for the catastrophe in ireland was the wrong economic policies. greens also participated in this to make it wrong. i know that. i can say it clearly. i am not blind, and i will continue to say that it was the wrong policy. if you pursue a wrong policy and it leads to a catastrophe, it is fair to say that it was the wrong policy. if it had been the right policy, you would not be in this catastrophe. the others who are responsible are the european banks. they played casino, but if you lose money as a normal human being in a casino, you have lost money. now the banks are saying that they want their money back too, and we are in a complicated situation because we want to help the irish people, but we have to say that it is because of the system that we are criticising that we are now where we are in ireland.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the european commission and the belgian presidency for their open, cooperative and, in short, european spirit. in these times of crisis, let us not forget the preservation of the future. last year, the virtue contest between governments was about who would spend the most. everybody was standing on the gas. this year, it's the opposite. everybody's standing on the brakes. that's good! parliament accepts the figure imposed on the council by the most thrifty or stingy member state, but on the condition that there is agreement on preserving the future. the union no longer has the resources to finance its budget. instead of being the primary instrument of solidarity between europeans, the community budget has become the place where conflicting national interests clash. the treaty of lisbon has now been in force for one year. it gives the union the new powers it has long been waiting for. however, no additional resources were able to be entered in the 2010 budget, nor will any be entered in 2011. the same applies to the europe 2020 action programme. at a time when all member states are engaged in policies of massive public expenditure cuts, there is a huge interest for them to identify and exploit the potential savings that can be made by the pooling of certain expenditure, either between several states or at the level of the 27 member states. europe, the european vision, european benchmarking can help us to spend less. that is why the european parliament is proposing an agreement between our three institutions on a method of working together on all these proposals for the future. i would add, on my own behalf, that we will save time by involving the national parliaments, which have fiscal and budgetary sovereignty.
in writing. europe has not seen such a profound disagreement between parliament and its institutional partners on the european budget since 1988. we are living in a historic moment: will the council, and especially the united kingdom, the netherlands and denmark, accept to realise that europe is a pooling of resources to do better together? some member states adopt an incoherent attitude: they cut their national budgets in the name of rigor, and ask the eu to respond to their problems by giving it ambitious tasks, and then, when it comes to realizing these ambitions, they rebel against the voracity of budgetary needs. galileo, iter, the eu 2020 strategy, the european external action service (eeas), all of this has a cost! we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the future. i am therefore in favour of a debate on own resources, respect for the lisbon treaty and an ambitious and realistic europe.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president barroso, the commission seems to be thinking all the time as if there is no serious crisis in europe. you even write in your paper, and i quote, "the signs of recovery are clear". where are the signs of recovery for the unemployed, the poor, the homeless right now? do you know that more than 400 billion euros of public money has been advanced today to support the banks and do you know that this is exactly the amount, 400 billion euros of savings, that will have been imposed on the people by the eight countries that are under the austerity plan? so your choices are ineffective. in the commission's programme i propose to evaluate the results for european workers and citizens of the implementation of the maastricht and lisbon treaties. the solution, in my view, is not wage and budgetary austerity. it would rather be based on higher wages, improved social protection and pension systems based on solidarity, the contribution of capital income to public finances and thus a new tax justice. why not immediately start studies for the introduction of a tax on capital movements, another credit with a new role for the european central bank, which, through monetary creation and other credit, must help the states to refinance the banks for job security, education, training, all common public goods with new public research and innovation services. today, it is a new sharing of wealth that will make europe believe and not the scourge of austerity and unemployment.
mr president, commissioner, as coordinator of the epp in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i would like to stress two points on your programme. first, to strengthen economic governance and to launch the european semester. we welcomed the economic governance package. achieving this goal is essential. in this respect, our group would like to see effective and binding measures that go beyond what is proposed. it is also necessary that parliament is genuinely involved in the development of the processes envisaged and in their implementation. legal bases must be found to avoid substantial changes to the treaties which would only delay the implementation of the measures which must be taken. the second point is the continuation of financial regulation. the plans are on the table or will be. 2011 will be a decisive year. we appreciate the willingness of commissioner barnier. in 2010, parliament showed its determination to adopt the supervisory package, the alternative fund managers directive and, probably by the end of the year, the regulation on the european supervision of credit rating agencies. we want to continue on the path of pragmatic, intelligent and effective regulation. that is what we expect from the commission today.
mr president, commissioner, this work programme presents the recovery of growth and jobs and economic regulation as the keys to restoring confidence. that's right. our model of economic development cannot simply reinforce the repressive aspects of a stability pact which has shown its limitations. the recovery of growth must be centred on job creation throughout the union. we must look at employment and social levels as indicators of economic power and, in this respect, insist on giving more weight to the european financial transaction tax and greater coordination between the european union and the european ministers for employment and to the union's economic proposals. i support the colleagues who have spoken in insisting on the directive on the posting of workers and on services of general interest. i believe that the european union's digital strategy is a key factor for this new economy. we must be more aware of the commission's ambition in this respect. on citizenship, the union must put citizens at the heart of the european project and the increase in financial envelopes must not be focused solely on security aspects, and in particular on the management of migration flows. finally, mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that, in essence, this work programme for 2011 must be the very example of a policy which responds positively to the temptation of national retreat that all our member states are showing. i believe that the european commission has the keys. it can rely on a parliament which will be a force for proposals and which will support it if it shows more ambition.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, you speak perfect french and you know my country well. there is an expression in france that characterizes what we dream but never see, we call it the arlésienne. for farmers, simplification is undoubtedly one of the forms, one of the faces of the arles process. as you said, the commission has already taken action to try to simplify procedures and i would like to go into some detail. it seems to me that there are two aspects to the case. on the one hand, there is the question of requests for aid. i think we have to admit that there has been an effort to simplify the files over the last few years, over the last few months, and we are giving you a report on that. then there are the constraints of conditionality, the constant reporting required of farmers on everything they do: the manure trailer taken to one field, the fertiliser dose put into another, the pesticide dose put into a third, and if you are wrong, you are entitled to penalties. in view of this situation, commissioner, i think we really need to find some solutions. last week, when you presented the draft of the future cap, you mentioned some integrative measures which could be implemented and which could lead, by the result of these measures, to measures which could be monitored by public opinion, by farmers and by the commission, measures whose scientific effect is certain. i am thinking, for example, of crop rotation. these measures should make it possible to simplify the constraints imposed on farmers. we have a real building site for the future here. and then today, as last week, you mentioned the responsibility of the states, and i think you are right. each year, commission inspectors will visit the states before visiting the farmers. they go in with a critical eye to find what's wrong. but could we not change their mission a little, commissioner, and ask them to also point out - it is a service they would be rendering to the states - where the states are going too far in applying community law? to go too far is to impose unnecessary constraints on farmers in relation to regulation. you would have improved europe's image in the eyes of our citizens.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said, because the bee is indeed a symbolic species, a sentinel species of our nature. many research programmes are now devoted to the bee, with sometimes contradictory results. a few days ago, a scientist came to me and explained that the swarms of planes that we see in the sky have an effect on the diffraction of the sun's rays and lead to over-fatigue and therefore to over-mortality of the bee, for example. i believe that, contrary to what was said earlier by a member of the right of this house, we have here an example of a sector in which the pooling of our knowledge and the coordination of research programmes can provide a solution to the problems of each of our countries. yes, europe can be useful. perhaps this example of bees is a symbol of our common construction.
in writing. the text proposed by the committee on agriculture and rural development on support for the beekeeping sector is particularly relevant in the context of the post-2013 cap reform. as bee mortality is increasing and the number of beekeepers in europe is decreasing, it is urgent to take stock of the difficulties faced by the sector and put in place the appropriate measures. this is crucial to combat the very likely negative consequences on our food production, since we know that 84% of plant species depend on bee pollination. so the first step in tackling the decline of bees is to get a better understanding of the phenomenon through increased research on bee mortality. secondly and additionally, we call on the commission to expand its support for the beekeeping sector and to renew existing support programmes before their scheduled completion in 2012.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a survey i read yesterday in a newspaper states that 70% of the french people say that the crisis is ahead of them and has not yet been resolved. i'm sure a wider investigation in europe would yield the same results. we must therefore respond to the legitimate concerns of our citizens, who are living through difficult times and are impatient with the slowness and complexity of decision-making at european and global levels. many speakers also say to me, "what are you doing?" what does europe do for me, for my family? people are scared. and at the same time, i see more and more politicians, more and more countries, even in this house, using, manipulating, exploiting this fear and this anxiety and not having any proposals. this populist thesis, which is gangrenous to our politics, is serious and i want to say it here, this is not how we will solve the real and serious problems of our countries and of europe in the world. i believe that it is up to the political parties, the parliamentary groups which reject this populism and demagogy, to make themselves heard more. no, the solution to the crisis is not to withdraw into ourselves, into protectionism. no, there is no easy or quick solution to the crisis we are experiencing. no, it is not possible to turn our backs on solidarity, on efforts to make all our countries stronger in globalisation, and then realize that we ultimately need our partners in times of storm. we must learn some lessons from what is happening in ireland, and this is not to blame ireland, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission. lessons must be learned, because the country's difficulties are not only due to its banks but also to the economic and fiscal policies of the current government for years. this celtic tiger, which has built its growth on its own, with atypical taxation, minimal banking regulation, an investment code without equal in any other country in the union, is now faced with the collapse of its housing bubble, households in debt, record unemployment and banks strangled. the irish government has guaranteed the entire banking system, a €480 billion commitment, three times its gdp, leading to a government deficit of 32%. it is precisely european solidarity that it is now demanding and obtaining. i welcome that and, as commissioner olli rehn said here on monday, the assistance that ireland is due to receive will ensure the stability of the whole euro area. but has the irish government itself been practicing this european solidarity, which dublin rightly enjoys today as it did when it joined the union, for several years? how many times have the member states tried to bring their taxation, a necessary condition, which we see too often today, closer to the good governance of the euro? and each time, some of the same countries have opposed it. i'm not throwing stones at anyone, but i think it's time for us to learn from these behaviors for the future. as i have said many times in this chamber, a crisis is an opportunity for change and we should not be afraid to change some of our habits, which have not produced the positive effect we hoped for. ladies and gentlemen, the measures adopted by the european council a few weeks ago, the guidelines set out at the g20 in seoul, are going in the right direction, but they do not go far enough, that is to say, a recognition of the need to work together within europe and between major regional blocs to respond to the instability of financial markets, to the imbalance in trade or to avoid a currency war. we all know that our countries alone are unable to find a viable and long-term answer to the expectations of the 500 million europeans who, as i said at the beginning, expect their political leaders, all of us here and in our capitals, to take decisions that will help them in the future. mr president-in-office of the council, if the crisis has taught us anything, it is that yesterday's solutions are not necessarily tomorrow's. we pay a high price for realizing it in a hurry, but we will pay an even higher price if we continue to ignore it. i call on the european institutions, i call on the governments of our member states to change, to learn the political lessons of the crisis and to no longer consider solidarity only when the house is on fire. mr president, i would like to add one more thing. it is not a matter of fighting between the council and parliament, it is the application of the treaties, it is solidarity, it is working hand in hand, that is the message i am sending you so that we can get out of the crisis for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
(addressing mr. godfrey bloom) i cannot accept what you have said. we are in a democratic period and regime. i'm asking you to make an official apology or we'll file a complaint. there are people who have said less than that, it's not normal. (applause) it's just that he didn't add, "and we're putting up concentration camps to solve the problem!"
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, i would like to address the problem of public expenditure, which is considered at the level of the continent. i wonder if the time has not come, in the face of the great challenges we face, to have a great debate with our national parliamentary friends and the european parliament on the question of communitization, the pooling of our public expenditure. i would like to take the example of my friend alain lamassoure: 27 armies, no more enemies; a customs union, 27 administrations; research programmes funded 15 to 20 times over without coordination; transeuropean networks which deserve to be interconnected, energy networks, etc. i propose that we entrust an independent auditor with the audit of public expenditure at all three levels: european, national and local. this audit would be given to national and european parliamentarians for a major debate on public spending and could be entrusted to the european court of auditors and the 27 national audit bodies. this is an idea i propose for the analysis and better management of our public expenditure on a continent-wide basis.
in writing. the european council in october took a further step in the subjugation of nations and the dispossession of their sovereignty. first, with pseudo-economic governance, which is really economic supervision: the obligation for the states to have their budgets approved in advance by officials in brussels; the monitoring of their economic policies as a whole; automatic preventive sanctions, even before the authorized debt and deficit ceilings have been exceeded; the possible suspension of the voting rights of the failing state... all in compensation to germany for keeping the financial stabilization fund afloat. but this mechanism is only a right of the states and the brussels commission to go into debt, or to guarantee loans, on the markets, in favour of states in difficulty because they are victims of... market speculation against their sovereign debts! and what's more, because of their membership of the eurozone. we are dreaming! the european council also decided on a reform of the treaties to set up a crisis management mechanism. for the first time, the simplified revision procedure will be used, this anti-democratic method which does not provide for any parliamentary debate. this is not governance, this is totalitarianism.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council and the european parliament had already had the opportunity to discuss the g20 on 20 october last, and we were at that time on the eve of the g20 ministerial meeting and waiting for what was going to happen in seoul. as europeans, we have prepared well for these meetings, both at ministerial level and at the level of heads of state and government. we have understood that the lack of cohesion among europeans would very quickly lead to the european union's credibility being exhausted on the international scene. the comments from around the world were mixed, admittedly, about the seoul summit. i think we must continue to be optimistic, even if the results are not as spectacular as we would have liked. we were convinced, before seoul, that the hardest, most important test was not to lose our momentum. we should not make the mistake of thinking that we no longer need to coordinate globally because we are not in the critical situation we were in a year and a half ago, or even six months ago. we still believe that political leaders have the responsibility to make decisions. that's right, that's the essence of politics. but i think they also have another, even more important, responsibility: to ensure that these decisions do not remain on paper but produce tangible effects and are carried out. the seoul summit has shown that the real challenge for the g20, and therefore for all of us, is now to understand how to pursue and even accelerate implementation. it is necessary to move from good intentions to concrete results, and all this is important for at least two reasons. the first is that markets do not just make statements. they are watching the developments that are happening in the concrete two, ten, thirty days after the summit, when the media have taken their cameras off the stage. the state of health of the european economy must be seen in a global context and not just as a result of the progress achieved in two summit days. the progress we are aiming for can only be achieved through daily and constant work, and as members of the european parliament you know this better than anyone. the second reason is just as important and directly affects you. i believe that the european parliament and national parliaments can play a role both of control and of political impetus on the european and international economic agenda by ensuring that this implementation work, between one summit and the next, is carried out successfully and that the g20 becomes more and more a process rather than a series of meetings. in substance, the union's contribution to strong, sustainable and balanced growth is now clear and is based on a number of principles: fiscal consolidation plans aimed at sustainable and differentiated growth, the europe 2020 strategy for the structural reforms needed to support in particular job creation, the financial sector and market reform agenda and, finally, the strengthening of the union's economic governance. i would add that the union is very interested in the peer review process within the g20. as europeans we are used to this and we know how useful this kind of exercise can be. clearly, everyone must play their part and show a renewed willingness to contribute to the framework for action for growth. i would like to say again, in the spirit of my previous remarks, that the battle against protectionism cannot be won once and for all but by maintaining a certain level of global alertness day after day. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the first is the reform of the international monetary fund, since the europeans have made it clear that they are ready to do their part to make the new imf more representative of the new international economic reality and thus to make the emerging economies' voices heard and play a greater role. we have agreed to reduce our presence on the imf's executive board and have made substantial concessions in terms of quotas. i think we also kept what we held most dear, and in general, the international community won. the second development concerns the so-called basel iii agreement. i think that on the capital requirements for banks we are moving in the right direction, and it is of course essential that this commitment to implement basel iii is actually being fulfilled by all the states concerned. it is clear in this respect that the issue of implementation will remain on the political agenda of the union and also of the g20. finally, if i look at what has happened in recent weeks with regard to the so-called currency war, i think that the european union has done a good job and has been able to defend a balanced position which is to say that exchange rates must reflect economic fundamentals and that competitive devaluations should not be used. finally, france now has the responsibility of the g20 presidency from seoul and i think this is a unique opportunity for europeans and for the european union as such. it will be very important to work together in a coordinated way to ensure that throughout the next year, and in the run-up to the cannes summit in november 2011 and beyond, the g20 remains true to the expectations it has created. the real challenge before us is to demonstrate that a forum created to deal with the crisis is also capable of providing the contribution and impetus needed to achieve medium-term objectives such as new, more sustained, strong and balanced global growth, clear and fair rules for the international financial market, and international organisations that are more representative of today's world and better able to assist national governments and european institutions in managing globalisation. i believe that it is up to the g20 to demonstrate in the coming years that this globalisation is not only economic but also, and above all, political.
president of the commission. − mr president, before this month’s seoul summit there was concern that once the pressure of the crisis which brought g20 countries together was receding, the g20 would find it impossible to fulfil its role as the primary forum for global economic coordination. after this month’s seoul summit i can reassure you that that negative scenario was not confirmed. we have seen the g20 move from crisis mode to a more stable approach to global governance. despite difficult issues under discussion and the fact that some other issues like the taxation of the financial sector were not agreed, the g20 once again delivered an important message of global determination; it made real and steady progress on addressing global economic challenges. i know the results were received with some scepticism because there was no spectacular, last-minute breakthrough perfectly timed for the evening news. but what the sceptics fail to understand is that the g20 process itself is spectacular news; it is not like our european, more integrated process where everyone round the table shares a common culture of negotiation and compromise. apart from the european union and some of its member states, the g20 includes countries as diverse as the us and china, russia, brazil and japan, argentina, saudi arabia, korea, south africa. the very fact that they are engaged in a joint process of addressing global imbalance and agreeing, for example, on financial regulation, should be recognised for what it is: enormous progress that would simply have not been possible some years ago, and the seoul summit was an important further step in that process and the launching of a new agenda, not a one-off spectacular event. so, yes, it was a success and i think the european union, represented by myself and the president of the european council, can be satisfied with the summit conclusions. in fact, we made a very important contribution also at finance minister level where the european union was represented by olli rehn, the commissioner responsible for that area. on the whole, the conclusions reflect the priorities the european union set out ahead of seoul and the european union should be proud of the very important contribution it is making to this process. let me highlight some of the key achievements: first and foremost, the european union wanted this summit to make progress on joint action to boost global growth and jobs and to give answers on how to address global imbalances and currency tensions. we all knew it would be an uphill struggle to find a commonly agreed way to tackle global imbalances, but the g20 after long, hard negotiations opted for a cooperative solution setting in place a mechanism and a timeline which brings our economies together to address this issue. the g20 partners committed to reducing excessive imbalances and to maintaining current account imbalances at sustainable levels. do not underestimate the significance of this. the g20 discussion on how to address imbalances showed that the eu is ahead of the curve. the results of our own thinking on european union internal imbalances inspired g20 leaders as the best way to tackle global imbalances. our method of using indicators to trigger an assessment of macroeconomic imbalances and their root causes is at the basis of the new g20 mechanism. it will be set up by mid-2011, with the first assessment before the next summit in november 2011. our focus now will be on strengthening this mechanism as much as possible and ensuring it is properly applied during the french g20 presidency in 2011. so, the conclusions were important but i agree that now we have to see how they will be implemented. the second achievement relates to currency rates. there will be no success in rebalancing growth without addressing currency tensions. once again the european union helped to build a g20 consensus on cooperative solutions. we have agreed to move towards more market-determined exchange rate systems that reflect underlying economic fundamentals. we also agreed to refrain from comparing the evaluations and to be vigilant against excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates. this resolve provides political momentum for the french g20 presidency that will take up a comprehensive reform of the international monetary system. i am also happy to see that the g20 summit endorsed the historic reform of the imf. indeed, we have exceeded the pittsburgh expectations on the quota shift and on the representation of emerging economies. thanks to the open and cooperative approach of eu member states, our significant concessions and our ability to share responsibility means that the fund now has the legitimacy it needs to take on the challenging tasks ahead, particularly addressing imbalances and currency tensions. emerging economies now have to prove that in return for increased representation, they are willing to shoulder increased responsibility for global economic governance. a fourth achievement at the summit was keeping up the momentum for global financial regulatory reform, with a clear focus on implementation. we welcome the endorsement of the basel iii reform and the fact that the g20 will continue to work on systemically important financial institutions. the g20’s financial reform efforts will continue in areas like macro-prudential policy frameworks, shadow banking, commodity derivative markets and market integrity and efficiency. the european union is in the lead on many of these points and our internal work will feed into the g20 process. it is now important to ensure strict and consistent implementation of all these commitments according to the agreed timetable, to ensure a global level playing field. we have received strong assurances from the united states that they share our determination on this. the seoul summit also created new momentum to conclude the doha round and reiterated the g20 commitment to fight protectionism in all its forms. an achievement which gives me personal satisfaction is that with the seoul development consensus interlocking development, trade and investment, we have firmly placed development on the g20 agenda. this new growth-oriented approach will complement existing donor focus activities and the united nations system. it will boost our efforts to achieve the millennium development goals and it is perfectly in line with the commission’s recent proposals in its green paper on the future of development policy. this green paper is now open for consultation and i look forward to input from this house. finally, i strongly welcome the g20’s commitment to the g20 anti-corruption action plan, to future work on energy-related issues and to sparing no effort in reaching a balanced and successful outcome at the climate negotiations in cancún. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, l'intérêt croissant que manifestent les représentants des entreprises et des syndicats prouve bien que le processus du g20 s'est maintenant imposé comme le grand forum de la coordination économique mondiale. j'ai participé aussi au sommet du monde des affaires, le "g20 business summit", où j'ai souligné l'importance de la responsabilité sociale des entreprises. j'ai également reçu une délégation des syndicats d'europe, d'amérique du nord et du sud et d'asie. avec cette délégation, qui était emmenée par la confédération européenne des syndicats, j'ai convenu de la priorité à donner à l'emploi et souligné que l'europe proposait effectivement l'intégration de l'emploi et de la dimension sociale dans les conclusions. après séoul, nous avons le regard tourné vers la prochaine présidence et le sommet de cannes en novembre 2011. nous devons saisir cette chance d'avoir un de nos états membres dans la cabine de pilotage. nous devons nous positionner sans attendre et contribuer activement, de façon coordonnée, à façonner l'ordre du jour du g20. la commission est prête à soutenir pleinement la présidence française dans toutes ses priorités. l'une d'entre elles est la réforme du système monétaire international, pour laquelle nous devrons réunir une série de propositions cohérentes, notamment pour améliorer la stabilité et réduire la volatilité des taux de change. une autre priorité concerne la volatilité des prix des matières premières. la commission présentera une contribution sur les marchés primaires des matières premières de toutes natures dans les prochains mois. considérons la présidence française comme une occasion unique à saisir pour permettre à l'europe de marquer l'agenda mondial de son empreinte. si nous continuons à agir ensemble au g20, l'europe consolidera sa position au centre du débat économique et financier mondial et jouera un rôle clé dans la réponse aux défis mondiaux.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i think i have one minute if what i have been told is correct. mr president, i would like to say how much i appreciate your lucid assessment of the last g20 and how much i share your proposals for the future. i think it is clear that the results have been rather weak, even though we have approved basel iii and the reform of the imf. it is to be hoped, as the president of the commission has said, that the seoul summit will pave the way for the implementation of the ambitious proposals of the french presidency, which are justified by the urgency and the difficult situation that persists. the cohesion of the european union will be necessary if it is to have its proper weight. concrete results are essential and i agree with you, mr president of the commission, when you say that our citizens expect action and not comments or declarations. the globalisation of the economy and finance requires real progress in the international harmonisation of rules. the markets react much more quickly than the politicians. europe must not be naive and must ensure reciprocity.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we can have many summits and meetings, but if europe does not have a common offensive vision, it will not matter and the next g20 will be a face-off between china and the united states, from which we will inevitably come out losers. yet, there is still much work to be done! while the euro area has its own difficulties which require vigorous responses at home, the international monetary system is going through a very critical period which adds to our difficulties and creates for europe competition which is as destabilising as it is unfair. that's the first point. the europeans must bring to the g20 the project of a new international monetary order based on a unit of account based on a basket of currencies including the dollar, the euro and the yuan. we must also take up the task of financial regulation. the commitments to combat tax havens have still not been implemented and the activity of credit rating agencies is still not regulated. this is all the more regrettable as other challenges arise, notably the regulation of the markets for raw materials: fossil, mineral or agricultural. and now i'm going to make a suggestion. i think that the europeans should propose the creation of a world organization for raw materials on this issue. the world economy is indeed at real risk from the shortages being organized by some producing countries - i am thinking in particular of china - and speculation on agricultural commodities is profoundly immoral because it adds to the climate hazards an additional risk of famine for developing countries. on all these great questions which concern, as you can see, the balance of the world, i have a conviction. i believe that the french presidency will only be truly useful if it is part of a european framework from the outset.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the scale of the global crisis, the social and environmental emergencies call for resolute action by the european union at the g20, which is issuing statements of intent on the regulation of international finance. firstly, the wto negotiations must not turn the world into a capitalist jungle but must apply social, environmental and job-creation standards to the trading system. they must tackle the scourge of unemployment, which now affects more than 250 million people worldwide, by ending the current austerity policies. on the contrary, tax havens should be drained and a mechanism for taxing capital movements invented, a global fund for stabilizing commodity prices, starting with agricultural commodity prices, a re-design of the international monetary system with a new role for the international monetary fund, aimed at employment, sustainable human development, with the creation of a world currency against the law of the dollar. we must also put an end to the scandal of the rating agencies, which are judges and parties solely serving the banks. the peoples must have a say in all these issues that affect them.
mr president, our fellow citizens are waiting for us, they are waiting for europe on the question of global governance. we must be a force for proposals, we must be a force for decisions. several speakers this morning underlined that the french presidency of the g20 could be an opportunity for europe. i share that sentiment, of course, and i think it would be appropriate for our parliament to be regularly informed by the presidency itself of the progress of the g20's work. i believe that the president of the french republic would be willing to come and speak to us. i think you should make the proposal to him, mr president.
mr president, if i may, what i said this morning was that mr bloom's behaviour was unacceptable. secondly, we are in a democratic parliament. we have democratically decided, mr bloom, that you are to leave this parliament. i ask you, in the name of democracy and of what this parliament stands for, to leave this parliament today. i ask you to do so out of respect for democratic law. mr. gollnisch, you don't have to question me. we know your methods. they are unacceptable, they are undemocratic. that's all i have to say to you. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i will be very brief. i will speak about article 2.
in writing. following the 2002 floods which caused great damage to people and property in germany, austria, the czech republic and france, the council of the european union created an instrument to provide rapid funding for the relief of regions affected by natural disasters. today, ireland, which has itself been hit by floods, is to benefit from this fund. i voted in favour of this amendment to the eu budget because it allows this aid to be paid to our irish friends. this vote is a symbol of european solidarity in the face of natural disasters. this is expressed today in ireland and tomorrow in france. indeed, our country will soon receive substantial financial assistance to deal with the aftermath of the storm xynthia in february 2010.
in writing. in the region, moldova has one of the lowest human development index. the policies of forced liberalization for the benefit of the financial elites of the european union are largely responsible for this. the european commission and the imf, which have promised to provide macrofinancial assistance, will only make the situation worse. in these circumstances, it is cynical to accept that the moldovan government is forcing its people to finance european programmes and agencies as questionable as the competitiveness and innovation framework programme or the sesar programme, even though moldova is not a member of the european union. i am voting against this report.
in writing. parliament adopted two legislative reports on first reading on wednesday: a regulation on aspects specific to the european union and a directive on the rules to be applied by the member states at national level. member states will be responsible for national regulation to ensure that objective and impartial information is available to the general public. this includes package leaflets, a product assessment report and information on how to prevent disease. patients should have better access to quality information on prescription medicines. this involves information about the characteristics of a medicine and the diseases it treats. we must protect consumers and keep them informed in a transparent way. a europe that protects and informs is also our job as a european parliamentarian, and that is why i voted in favour of these two texts.
in writing. directive 2001/83/ec establishes a community code relating to medicinal products for human use. it lays down rules on the information to be attached to medicinal products on their characteristics and use. however, it does not provide a harmonised framework on the content and quality of non-advertising information for patients. experience has also shown that unequal interpretation of texts can lead to situations where the public is exposed to disguised advertising, particularly on the internet. the commission has proposed a directive amending the existing regulation to improve the dissemination of information to the public on prescription medicines. it aims to establish a legal framework governing the provision of specific information on medicinal products by marketing authorisation holders to the public. the european parliament has prepared a more ambitious legislative resolution than the commission 's proposal . i voted for this text because it improves and secures the information given to patients a little more.
in writing. in healthcare, access to comprehensive and quality information is a guarantee of better outcomes, as patients are more likely to follow treatment they can understand. i agree with the rapporteur that it is difficult to access such information in some european countries, because of the different interpretations of the directive on medicinal products by the member states, and because of the lack of reliability and clarity of the data. it is necessary to ensure better access to this information, in accordance with the patient's right to information. however, in order not to create any imbalance between member states, it is essential to identify the medium for disseminating this information, without favouring one over the other. finally, it is essential to distinguish clearly between information and advertising and to prevent pharmaceutical companies from taking advantage of these information campaigns to promote their products.
in writing. i voted against this because we cannot allow the pharmaceutical companies and the commission to make health a commodity like any other. the link between the pharmaceutical industry in europe and pharmacovigilance is once again at the heart of the debate. the pharmaceutical companies cannot be allowed to inform the public freely and to advertise prescription drugs directly to the general public. their commercial concerns are incompatible with the public interest objectives of our health policies and it would be dangerous to allow them to do so.
in writing. a distinction between information and advertising about medicines is essential for the protection of citizens. that is why i voted in favour of the report by christofer fjellner, which requires an objective description of the patient's address on the packaging of medicinal products. in addition, access to clear and reliable information will be enhanced by making it available in all eu languages, on labelled websites or in official brochures. i welcome the adoption of this proposal, which is a real step towards greater transparency in health.
in writing. the amendments which this house is making to the commission and council proposal are not all in the right direction. they never deviate from the logic of the single market in medicines and continue to regard those of them which are not subject to prescription as goods like any other; the authors end up talking about "consumers" instead of patients. they do not propose to prevent pharmaceutical companies from producing information on their medicines for the general public. however, they have the merit of seeking to enable states to regulate as much as possible the disclosure of information published by these firms. in particular, they give them the right to publicly denounce those who publish information that does not conform to official state data or who disseminate it in a misleading way. it's better than nothing. i cannot, however, vote for such a weak text. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 726/2004 establishes community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishes a european medicines agency. the amendment to directive 2001/83/ec has focused on better information for patients, particularly as regards the distinction with advertising. following that amendment, the regulation should be amended to also subject a number of information relating to the products to which it relates to prior control by the european medicines agency. with this in mind, the european commission has drawn up a proposal to amend the regulation as regards the dissemination to the public of information on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription. the european parliament, which was called upon to give its opinion on the proposal, made a number of amendments to the commission's text. these are the same reasons which led me to vote in favour of the resolution amending directive 2001/83/ec. the two pieces of legislation go hand in hand to improve information for patients about the medicines they are given.
in writing. this report is a reminder of what the european medicines agency should be. we cannot object to a draft which states the obvious, such as the need to 'emphasise the rights and interests of patients', the need to oblige companies to publicly list the side effects of their medicines or the need to publish information in all the official languages of the european union. it is also a matter of concern that such common places should be reopened 15 years after the establishment of the agency! parliament should denounce the opacity of this agency and declare loudly that it must be reformed in the interests of all.
in writing. every year, about 9.3 million tonnes of electronic waste are produced in europe. however, these equipment often contain a significant amount of highly polluting products. this waste is a major environmental challenge. in addition to reprocessing, it is essential to limit the use of these dangerous substances from the outset. the major industrial groups have already begun to limit this use. however, clear rules are needed to provide a common framework for this vital effort. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution to adopt a directive restricting the use of these substances. this vote was not easy, however. the proposal contains a number of exemptions, particularly as regards solar panels. as they reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we thought it would be appropriate to tolerate the substances they contain. this has, however, naturally been the subject of debate on the priorities of the union's environmental policy. the latter unfortunately faces conflicting issues.
in writing. in co-decision, the european parliament endorsed the agreement with the council by adopting at first reading the recast of the directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. this is good news for european consumers: electrical and electronic equipment sold in the european union accounts for a significant share of consumer goods sold (an estimated 9.3 million tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment are sold each year in the european union alone). the increasingly frequent replacement of these various equipment raises the question of the waste and hazardous substances contained in this waste. it is necessary, for reasons of public safety and health, to limit their use. the idea, with this revision of the current directive dating from 2003, is to make even more progress in limiting the use of dangerous substances. it is also planned that the commission will review its legislation in three years' time, in order to adapt the legislation to future innovations.
in writing. waste electrical and electronic equipment is increasing and includes several hazardous substances. these substances can be released into the environment and harm human health if not handled appropriately. this directive will enable many companies to make even greater progress in designing new and safer electrical and electronic equipment by encouraging technological innovation. the reduction of hazardous substances upstream will also lead to lower recycling costs. finally, and this is a crucial point, we have obtained the exclusion of photovoltaic panels in order to encourage the development of renewable energy technologies in europe.
in writing. the resolution on the acta (international agreement on counterfeiting and counterfeiting of financial instruments) was voted in parliament today, with a view to better enforcing anti-counterfeiting measures at international level. the ccca is a tool to make existing rules more effective and to provide better protection against infringement of copyright, trademarks, patents, designs and geographical indications. i voted in favour of this resolution, tabled by my group, the epp, because i believe that the acca is a shield for european industry. this will enable us to ensure the protection of copyright, as well as creativity and innovation in cultural and scientific fields. today we must stop and think about how to fight piracy more effectively, and this international agreement is a step towards better enforcement of anti-counterfeiting measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution proposed by the epp and the ecr on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, known as acta. the aim of the agreement is to combat the proliferation of counterfeits and the increase in piracy of copyrighted products by establishing a new international governance structure. it is essential to protect creation against theft through piracy and counterfeiting. the union, which aims to become the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, cannot remain indifferent to this major problem. that is why i welcome the adoption of this resolution. this is a strong text which should have brought all members of the european parliament together. unfortunately, it was adopted by a very small majority. while the european commission offered strong guarantees on respect for fundamental freedoms, the left in the european parliament preferred to lock themselves in protest slogans without any foundation. in my view, the european union must be at the forefront of this fight against the negligence and ill-will often shown by china and russia in this area. it is about our competitiveness in the global economy.
in writing. i voted against this text: the european right has given in to the demands of certain governments and the pressure of the cultural industries, to the detriment of the fundamental freedoms of european citizens. all the safeguards we asked the commission to take were swept away in one fell swoop by the european people's party. this is a bad signal to the commission in the run-up to the sydney negotiations next week. in addition, the vague definition of the term 'commercial scale' associated with the increase in criminal sanctions for online copyright infringement could encourage states to adopt legislation leading to the criminalisation of private users and technical intermediaries. acta must not lead to the european union being able to conduct its own investigations and to introduce graduated or equivalent response systems! finally, the commission should conduct an impact assessment rapidly before acta is implemented and not after on its implementation and its implications for fundamental rights, data protection and the e-commerce directive.
in writing. there is still doubt about the content of the acta agreement! the main purpose of this agreement, which was negotiated in the utmost secrecy for years by about ten countries, is to combat counterfeiting and protect intellectual property rights. however, it should be noted that neither china, brazil nor india participated in these negotiations. moreover, if counterfeiting is to be tackled, the known provisions of the treaty in question imply the introduction of measures that can be considered as infringements of individual freedoms: surveillance of internet service providers, strengthening of border controls, and more difficult transit of low-cost generic medicines for developing countries. these concerns were echoed by many members of parliament, who did not want to place their 'blind' trust in the negotiations conducted by the european commission. the resolution adopted by a narrow majority cannot be considered as support, as doubts remain as to whether the text is in conformity with the acquis communautaire and whether it is compatible with respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i had not decided to boycott the sitting after the regrettable episode of social-eurocratic totalitarianism that we have just experienced, i would have voted in favour of the joint resolution of the left-wing groups on the agreement on counterfeiting. not because i have changed my political views, but because i believe that this agreement is not sufficient to protect our industries from counterfeiting, that it does not guarantee respect for geographical indications, that it is of little use if it does not concern china, the world's largest counterfeiter, and that it endangers the rights and freedoms of citizens in relation to "intangible" property rights. i also support all the requests for prior information, impact studies, etc. made in this resolution. in short, the agreement as it stands is useless and potentially harmful. it should not even be under negotiation, let alone, given the issues it covers, by the european commission alone.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement tabled by the epp and the ecr because this text is totally insufficient in protecting individual freedoms. meps have repeatedly expressed their many concerns when, during the negotiation of this international agreement and before the final signature of the agreement by the states and the european union, it was important to raise a number of issues, including access to medicines, the responsibility of internet service providers, or the search of travellers' personal luggage at borders. unfortunately, the joint resolution tabled by the s&d, greens/efa, alde and gue/ngl groups, which i voted for, expressing these concerns, was not adopted by a few votes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the epp-ecr resolution on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. the resolution recalls that the fight against counterfeiting is a priority in the eu's internal and international political strategy and that international cooperation is a key element in pursuing this objective at global level. taking up the concerns of the european parliament and our fellow citizens such as respect for fundamental rights, the protection of privacy and personal data, the recognition of the essential role of free internet, the importance of protecting the role of service providers and the need to safeguard access to medicines, the act makes existing rules more effective. it aims to ensure better protection against all infringements of intellectual property rights, trademarks, designs, designs and patents in the interests of community exports and right holders. contrary to what has been said by its critics, the agreement is fully compatible with the acquis communautaire. it does not, for example, introduce the so-called 'three-stage graduated response' procedure.
in writing. the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) was negotiated behind the backs of citizens and against the un and its world intellectual property organization, the only legitimate entity to implement this type of agreement. a handful of countries have negotiated with the acca the rules that will prevail in the field of intellectual property rights. this confiscation of international law for the benefit of the richest countries and their closest allies is intolerable. so when there is a growing doubt about the patentability of living organisms or about possible obstacles to the marketing of generic medicines, the urgency is not to lament or regret this by accepting the fact of the matter. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i am in favour of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) because it is an agreement that protects our citizens, our creators, our artists and our businesses. it clarifies the remedies available in the event of a flagrant infringement of intellectual property rights in one of the countries party to the agreement. the commission has been transparent, acac cannot go beyond the acquis communautaire, cannot go beyond the measures taken within the framework of european directives, cannot in any case violate fundamental rights. it was negotiated outside the traditional international bodies (wto...) because china and india refused any agreement! finally, the acac is open, and all the states that freely wish to participate can join us, so that together we can protect our citizens, legally as well as physically, from the damage of counterfeiting. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of my group's resolution because the fight against counterfeiting is essential and must be global if it is to be effective. counterfeiting is a growing parallel economy and allows the massive laundering of dirty money. moreover, our industries, already suffering from the export penalty of the undervalued yuan and the weak dollar, cannot tolerate the unfair competition of counterfeits produced outside the eu with their products on the domestic market. this globally organized theft is taking a heavy toll on creativity and innovation and has disastrous consequences for our jobs and the safety of deceived consumers. our development model, which is geared towards a knowledge-based economy, requires the protection of this fundamental right of intellectual property on a global scale. the vote now opens the way for the ratification of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, which will facilitate the possibility of legal remedies in the event of infringement of intellectual property rights in the signatory states. we are thus laying the foundations for a multilateral strategy that will protect the driving force of our economic development: our inventions, our brands and our artistic works.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i could have limited my speech to simply recalling the images of this summer in russia or south asia, recalling the absolute urgency of combating climate change, and since we are talking about europe, to move immediately or as soon as possible to a 30% target by 2020 in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. today, if we don't change anything, we'll be at 19%. we are already very close to the target we set ourselves, so we can no longer speak of european ambition when we talk about 20 per cent. i am not necessarily a believer in the carbon market, but if we stay at 20%, the fact is that we will treat the carbon market as an endangered species and not as a lever to fight climate change. if we go up to 30%, this could potentially be €8 billion, including auctions of allowances, in the eu budgets. 30% is a possibility. if we set a binding target of 20% energy efficiency, this would mean a million jobs in europe. that is a saving of €1,000 per european household, and since commissioner oettinger was talking about nabucco, 20% energy savings in europe is the equivalent of 15 nabucco. so are we going to kill european companies if we go to 30%? of course not. i'm not going to. all the studies show it. a few potentially risky sectors are affected, but the tools are there and so far the sectors that threaten europe with annihilation are the sectors that have gained in european energy policy. they have made billions of euros from european climate policy. to go to 30 percent is to be clearly on the side of those who make the change, is to be on the side of those who make the world of tomorrow. and i would like to quote a few figures. according to ernst young's 2010 barometer, china and the united states are the most attractive countries for renewable energy development. according to a recent study, of the 50 companies identified as the world's green technology leaders, only three are in europe, the others are in asia or the united states. so we absolutely need to get to 30%, and i'll end with a quote from barack obama: "we can either abandon the jobs of the future to our competitors, or we can, as they have already begun to do, seize the opportunity of the century. the nation that pioneers the energies of the future will be the nation that pioneers the 21st century". he lost the election. take this leadership in energy transition and new economy.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, since copenhagen, at least one thing is certain, that the disinformation operation which was set up before copenhagen has failed and that the information given to us by the ipcc has been perfectly confirmed by all the expertise carried out by the un. that is the first point i wanted to make. this shows the importance and urgency of our action. we have to learn from the failure in copenhagen and it is therefore absolutely essential that the european union sets itself extremely ambitious targets, and that is why it is essential, both for the climate and for our industry and our economy, that the 30% target in the resolution can be voted on tomorrow. as one of our colleagues has just pointed out, the 20% target is already almost achieved. if we want to boost our industry, if we want to remain leaders or become leaders in new sectors, whether energy efficiency or renewable energy, it is essential to have this objective in the union. the second point is credibility. we must keep our commitments to the countries of the south, distinguishing between the different categories of countries of the south, because china and africa cannot really be put in the same category. that is why, in my view - and this is my personal opinion, not necessarily that of my whole group - it is essential to have a financial transaction tax which will help us to reach the $100 billion we have planned for 2020. finally, i hope at least that the agreement on forests, the redd agreement, can be concluded in cancún, because that would be a great step forward. let's remember that deforestation is responsible for 20 percent of greenhouse gas emissions.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i hope that unity and realism will be lost tomorrow when we vote on our resolution on the 16th conference of the parties on climate change. i hope that our commissioner will be able to take up the pragmatic objectives that we must achieve collectively, but also defend the sine qua non conditions that europe has set. in these negotiations we must not lose sight of the legitimate expectations of our citizens and our industries for fairness. it is the world that must fight climate change, not europe alone. thus, recognising the importance of intellectual property that is not sufficiently protected will be essential. green technologies must benefit the greatest number of people, but we must not sell our present and future knowledge, even in the fight against climate change. similarly, the demand for common methods of calculating emissions and for the verification and publication of data so that all emitters are subject to the same scale seems to be a legitimate demand and not a negotiating tool. finally, more controversially - and my colleague raised this earlier - the shortcomings of the current system of own development mechanisms will also be brought to the table. we are all aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the real power of negotiation does not lie with the european parliament. but the will of many members of the european parliament, including myself, to work and to contribute to a positive outcome of this conference must be encouraged and not neglected as we have seen in recent days. if europe wants to be strong in international dialogues, it must be strong for all its legislators.
mr president, commissioner, we know your pugnacity and your desire that europe finally speak with one voice in cancún. so i would like to ask you to give us your views on two subjects, two actions which are in our resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow. i would like to know your public opinion on these two proposals before the vote tomorrow. first, the creation of a green fund, which will finally provide, from 2020, 100 billion dollars a year to help the poorest countries. secondly, the introduction of a 0.01% tax on financial transactions, which will provide a financial source of eur 20 billion to help the poorest countries. i think this is an important subject in financial matters to enable us to move faster and further.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the european union often presents economic partnership agreements as an opportunity for african countries. the commission therefore despairs of seeing these agreements signed as soon as possible. but the question we are asking is why these countries are not rushing to sign agreements that would be so favourable to them. clearly, there are differences of opinion on the quality of these agreements, and as long as these differences of opinion persist, the acp countries will be reluctant to sign them. should we not go further in dialogue and understanding by listening to the concerns and expectations of the acp countries? they want to talk about development strategy, whereas europe often responds only by opening up markets. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly must listen to this. i think that other european bodies should do the same if we want to build a real strategic partnership between africa and the european union.
madam president, commissioner, beyond the debate this afternoon and the resolution we are going to consider tomorrow, let us return to the main points, which i have not fully heard in the debate since earlier. this major political issue is a genuine national cause for morocco and, as we will recall, a diplomatic issue for morocco's relations with the countries of africa and the maghreb, and first and foremost with algeria. secondly, it is an economic issue because this issue is an obstacle to the formation of a prosperous and stable maghreb. it is a security issue because of the activity of the terrorist organization al-qaeda in the islamic maghreb, and it is also a humanitarian issue for the sahrawi populations concerned, especially those in the tindouf camps, who cannot leave. we have to get back to basics. to return to the main points is to return to resolution 1920, adopted unanimously by the united nations, which calls for us to be able to put on the table the question of autonomy proposed by morocco and which also wishes that there should be these family movements between western sahara and the tindouf camps. these are the main issues which we consider to be important. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in morocco, and i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply.
madam president, on 8 november the moroccan authorities violently dismantled the camp near laayoune in western sahara, causing deaths and many injuries. i am absolutely outraged that a member state, in this case france, has opposed the request for a un fact-finding mission to investigate these events. the ugandan proposal, at the meeting of the un security council on 16 november, was nevertheless legitimate and desirable. france is taking great pleasure in hiding behind the lack of a decision by the security council, when it has abused the weight of its veto to prevent any light from being shed on these incidents. would the truth be so hard to face? europe, which wants to be an example in the protection of human rights, must demand the opening of an independent and transparent fact-finding mission under the auspices of the united nations and the extension of the powers of minurso. more generally, we look to the high representative to bring about a just and lasting solution to the unacceptable situation of the sahrawi people.
madam president, like my colleagues, i regret that there have been casualties in this conflict. but i would now like to say that the text proposed is unbalanced and i regret that the vote on this resolution was rushed. we should have waited for the outcome of the investigations to have a real reflection on a solid basis and to enable colleagues to get a fair idea of the reality of the facts. this could be seen as a way of influencing the un negotiations on the future of western sahara. i must say that this worries me at a time when the euro-mediterranean policy is being revived. it will take time to establish the facts, the responsibilities of each. i believe that this is the essential condition for the stability of this very sensitive region and the well-being of the population.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that i did not think it appropriate to vote so early on the events of 8 november in laayoune, when we do not have all the information to be able to take the necessary steps back and be objective. nevertheless, in view of these circumstances, i am relieved to see that we have reached a fairly measured and balanced joint resolution which takes account of the concept of human rights and does not unfairly condemn either party, even if some points are questionable. in any case, i think it is most important not to aggravate the situation so that the investigations and negotiations can proceed calmly and, therefore, i think it is wise not to be tempted to question the privileged status of a neighbouring and partner country on the basis of partial and sometimes contradictory testimonies.
in writing. when we look closely at the images available on the internet, we can measure the degree of violence that has been exercised against the moroccan law enforcement forces. the scenes seen in gdaim izik camp and on the road to laayoune show deadly violence against the moroccan security services. even the emergency vehicles were not spared. the reality is far from what the propaganda has tried to make us believe. it is therefore necessary for our parliament to exercise restraint and discernment rather than falsely accusing the moroccan authorities of being entirely responsible for this situation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this report is being debated in the international community. developing countries believe that developed countries use human rights clauses to introduce a form of disguised protectionism, while developed countries denounce social and environmental dumping by emerging countries. i wanted to take a positive approach by showing how social and environmental standards and commercial interests can be mutually reinforcing if all countries play by the same rules. the european union must play its part in international trade to bring about change. it would act in accordance with its founding texts, which state that the european union must contribute to sustainable development, free and fair trade and the protection of human rights. i believe that its action must be undertaken simultaneously at multilateral, bilateral and unilateral levels. at the multilateral level, the european union should encourage international organisations, in particular the world trade organisation, to take greater account of social and environmental standards. these international organisations must also strengthen their cooperation. that is why i am proposing, in particular, that the international labour organisation be granted observer status in the wto. on the environment, i believe that access to green goods and technologies should be a priority because they not only promote new forms of employment policy but also create new growth opportunities for european companies that are very successful in this field. the establishment of a genuine world environmental organization which could be seized in the event of environmental dumping should also be considered. the european union can really set an example at the bilateral level. while i welcome the fact that the new generation of free trade agreements contain a binding human rights clause, i would like to see this practice extended to the sustainable development chapter as well. in addition, the european commission negotiates such agreements. it should include a set of social and environmental standards to be respected by all its trading partners. these basic standards could be supplemented on a case-by-case basis by additional conventions depending on the degree of economic, social and environmental development of the country concerned. this gradual and flexible treatment would make it possible to deal more fairly with our various trading partners and would be more equitable for all. in particular, the monitoring of the implementation of bilateral agreements must be strengthened. i therefore propose that impact assessments be carried out before, during and after the negotiations and that they no longer only cover sustainable development but also human rights. finally, i am hopeful that things will move quickly unilaterally, since the system of generalised preferences should be reformed very soon. as you know, the gsp requires ratification of some 30 international conventions on human rights, the environment, labour and good governance. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the commission must launch investigations or even withdraw preferences if there are indications that the conventions are not being applied. in conclusion, some of these actions can be taken now but attitudes will not change overnight. the european union must act gradually and at all levels to achieve a fairer balance in trade relations.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that at the very moment when the european union is trying to redefine its trade policy after the treaty of lisbon, and at the same time trying to link it with its industrial policy, it is welcome that three reports are being presented to this parliament at the same time on issues which ultimately fall within the same field of political debate and public debate on 'what is trade and how is trade linked to social issues, environmental issues or human rights issues'? in fact, we are in a permanent state of schizophrenia: companies are moving to other countries, social rights are being called into question, environmental damage is increasing, and at the same time we are negotiating free trade agreements, we are negotiating a whole series of measures within the wto which, unfortunately, are completely out of step with the public debate in which citizens are trying to engage. how can we explain to our public opinion today that a football which is sold on the european market, produced under decent working conditions which respect the environment, and a football which is made by child labour or in a country where trade union organisation is prohibited, are the same football? we can no longer explain this to our public opinions; so we have to - it's our responsibility today - integrate these environmental and social issues into trade. on my report specifically, in relation to trade, there are a number of countries in europe today whose imports of products are very much offsetting the declines in their own emissions. a third of europe's emissions are not produced in europe but are imported goods. it is therefore essential that we integrate climate change into our trade. how can we explain to our public opinion that at the same time as we are going to conclude a free trade agreement which will potentially lead to deforestation, we are going to negotiate in cancún a redd agreement which aims to compensate financially, in the countries of the south, for non-deforestation? it is therefore essential to be able to make the connection between these different subjects. when we made this report - and i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs from the various groups - we tried to be as constructive as possible. i hope that will be reflected in the vote tomorrow. we tried to end the debate on black and white. we have stopped saying that trade liberalization and the fight against climate change will destroy 100 per cent of our industries in europe, where, in a way, we don't care because the climate issue must come first. when we worked on the issue of carbon leakage, for example, we tried to specify in each case which sector of activity could be put at risk and what tools could be used to protect this sector. the same is true of the wto framework laws, the anti-dumping laws. the same applies to production processes and methods. on all these subjects, we have tried, with the other groups, to have proposals which will make it possible to move things forward and which are, i believe, concrete in relation to our ambitions, in relation to the mandate of the european commission and of all the european institutions. i would simply say that, once again, i hope that tomorrow the cooperative, constructive spirit in which we have drawn up this report will be reflected in the vote and, once again, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the work they have done.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee on international trade and, in particular, the fictitious rapporteurs of the various groups for their cooperation in the preparation of this third report on a related subject, which allows us to present today a set of innovative and concrete proposals to advance corporate social responsibility within the framework of the european union's trade policy. after the international crisis, the economic and social damage it has caused, but also the debates it has provoked, the expectations of citizens and the political expectations that have been expressed to learn from it, our common conviction is that europe's trade policy must more than ever contribute to the objectives of regulating globalisation, and in particular to its social and environmental objectives. this regulation concerns states and their economies, but of course the main economic actors are companies and, in particular, multinational companies, which are the main actors in world trade. they have benefited more than anyone else from the opening of markets, not only to access consumers but also to outsource part of their production and diversify their supply chain, often from countries with low production costs and, above all, with less stringent social and environmental rules. trade liberalization has been accompanied by fierce competition between countries to attract foreign investment and increased competition between firms, and this has too often led to intolerable abuses of working conditions, violations of human rights and damage to the environment. from the bhopal disaster in the indian subsidiary of a multinational chemical company, which left thousands of victims, to the impunity of the parent company today, to the behaviour of oil and mining companies in africa, burma and many other countries, which are destroying their environment, reducing their workers to slavery, from child labour in textile factories in asia to the murders of trade unionists on farms in central america, there are many examples. and they are all the more unacceptable because they often concern companies from industrialized countries, their subsidiaries, their supply chains, including european companies. this has given rise, for many years now, to a debate and a struggle, which has been repeatedly echoed in this parliament by the adoption of resolutions on the social and environmental responsibility of enterprises. so far, progress in csr has not been met by the debate on social standards in trade agreements, the subject of mrs saïfi's report. this is both understandable, because trade agreements are about binding legal rules between states, while corporate social responsibility is about voluntary commitments by companies, but at the same time it is paradoxical, because csr and social and environmental clauses are pushing in the same direction, that is, towards a globalisation that is more in line with human rights, the environment and sustainable development. we therefore propose to introduce csr in trade agreements and, in concrete terms, to introduce a corporate social responsibility clause in the sustainable development chapters, in particular of ftas, with a number of clear and verifiable commitments by companies. first, there must be a reciprocal commitment by the european union and its partners to encourage companies to make commitments and to verify them: opening of contact points, so that information can be available, but also so that testimonies, in particular from trade unionists and civil society, can be given; the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. finally, we propose that in the event of failure, serious breaches of csr commitments, but also breaches of social rights, social and environmental laws, there should be mechanisms to ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, i should like to begin by, if i may, on behalf of the committee on development, making a few strong points. i would like to reiterate that when it comes to climate change, it is the most vulnerable people, and in particular indigenous peoples, who are affected and that their participation in policy-making, particularly on trade, is therefore essential. i would also like to reiterate that the european union's trade policies must be consistent with the fight against climate change and the fight against poverty. we call for environmental clauses to be included in all eu and wto trade agreements, for the review of clean development mechanisms, for a real transfer of technology and for the fight against bio-piracy. finally, and most importantly, with 20% of emissions coming from transport, we need to move towards short circuits in agriculture first, which will create jobs both at home and in developing countries and reduce our emissions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, commissioner, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, we agree with the report by our colleague, mr harlem désir, on behalf of the committee on international trade. in our committee, as elsewhere, one of the most debated issues has been the question of what is the purpose of corporate social responsibility. is it an end in itself or should it lead to legislation since it is applied by many companies? this debate is not over; it invites us to develop thinking in the context of corporate governance and to articulate the two debates. we in the committee on employment and social affairs believe that this social responsibility is essential if we are to combat tax evasion and undeclared work here and there, in the framework of trade agreements. we also believe that the trade unions, the social dialogue and the european works councils must be fully involved as essential actors in the promotion of corporate social responsibility, since they make a vital contribution. we also believe that for these tools to be fully used, the un human rights council, in its 'protect, respect and remedy' initiative, has a very essential role that we must use. moreover, we also believe that corporate social responsibility is a tool for competitiveness which must be explored, even if, here and there, when, once again, consensus is reached, when corporate social responsibility is defined through standards which are finally commonly accepted, it should be able to succeed without replacing labour regulations or the collective agreement. finally, we believe that corporate social responsibility, including in trade agreements, must be dynamic and able to adapt to new areas to be covered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by defending free trade and organising the union's commercial disarmament, the commission has played its full role as a servile instrument serving very particular interests, which are harmful to european workers. free and undistorted competition is a myth that destroys jobs and lives. if competition is free, then all dumping is possible, starting with tax, social, monetary and environmental dumping, and competition is distorted. to get out of this situation which is killing industrial employment and plunging workers and their families into poverty, it is necessary to establish strict controls on capital movements by the member states, to destroy tax havens, to take the essential sectors for life - energy, water, medicines, agriculture and training - out of the market and, above all, to define and enforce environmental and social criteria which guarantee equality in commercial activity and the rights of workers.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think this has been a very rich debate. while the philosophy behind the three reports is similar, the details, ideas and responses we have shared today cannot be addressed adequately in the short time at my disposal. some ideas are workable, others less so, because we operate in a legal, an institutional and a political framework, both as a union of 27 member states and as a member of the wto. i will try to highlight what i believe to be the salient considerations for each report. unfortunately i cannot be exhaustive. on the saïfi report, a number of you have raised the possibility of ilo observer status in the wto. my starting point is that there is definitely much scope for improved international governance and better coordination between international organisations. my next consideration is that, in order to leverage trade policy to achieve a better social and environmental outcome, we need to set feasible objectives. structural changes take a long time to implement and, if we are realistic about the wto membership coming round to a ‘trade and...’ agenda, this is a long-term endeavour. let me add that, with regard to the proposal in the saïfi report that there should be a human rights assessment of free trade agreements (ftas), i believe this should happen throughout the negotiations. i would be rather sceptical about having a special period between the end of the negotiations and the initialling of the agreement. this was also discussed this morning in another context, but i think we should stick to the procedure in the lisbon treaty which makes it very clear that it is up to the commission to initial such agreements; after that, the ratification procedure starts and the council signs, which is their way of ratifying; then the european parliament has the right and the duty to ratify by vote. with regard to the idea of having a human rights assessment before the initialling – let us call it a kind of pre-condition – i would not be positive about this. on the other hand, i think the actual idea of assessing the human rights impact of an agreement makes sense, and i am positive on that. specific questions have also been put, for example on child labour. you know that we are currently negotiating a free trade agreement with india, where the whole matter of sustainability also has to be addressed. india is very sceptical about such a sustainability chapter in the agreement, but we insist – and we will continue to insist – that such a chapter has its place, and i think that ultimately it will be included. i would simply like to ask that, later on when you will have to discuss this, you take into account the fact that the ideas of individual third countries on such a sustainability chapter may concern not only the content of it but also the philosophy of certain third countries on this issue. with respect to the jadot report, i have heard calls for a climate chapter in each bilateral agreement. i am all for environmental sustainability because the future does not belong to us. where i think we must be careful, however, is in recognising that the many elements which need to come into play to provide a satisfactory response to the climate change challenge – from emission caps to financing – cannot be translated into provisions in our trade agreements. i think there is a wider forum for that and, provided that there is an agreement in the wider forum, then of course such an agreement has to be reflected in the bilateral free trade agreements. whether it is also possible in the development round that we have just discussed, the doha round, is much more questionable because there is certainly not agreement among all the participants in this multilateral process to have a climate chapter in the final outcome. however, our position will be that we are in favour of this. lastly, on mr désir’s report, i think this comes at a very timely moment, given that a new commission communication on corporate social responsibility (csr) is in preparation. the commission and the members of the oecd are actively contributing to updating the current oecd benchmarks in time for the oecd ministerial meeting in may 2011. in all our csr-related activities, we will carefully consider various options for promoting responsible behaviour by european companies, irrespective of their place of operation, and with special regard to feasibility and consequences. let me add that this is not only a matter of trade, or of bilateral and multilateral trade agreements. in the united states, legislation was recently adopted whereby multinational companies – and not only those with their operations in the united states but also those with their registered offices there – are required to be responsible and to produce certification of their financial operations and transactions with respect to raw materials. i think it is a very laudable initiative which is, in fact, completely outside bilateral agreements. most of these operations concerning raw materials are not covered by bilateral agreements, they are simply financial and industrial operations by multinational companies, but if they have their registered offices in the united states, then the united states can take action vis-à-vis such companies. i think it would be a very good idea for us to consider doing exactly the same with respect to european companies that are active mostly in third world countries, and then to extend the same approach to countries like canada and australia, so that we would ultimately encompass the majority of these kinds of industrial activities and extractive industries in the world. i think this would be a considerable contribution to development in sustainable conditions. in short, congratulations for the three reports. i am certainly willing to continue the discussion on these subjects with you in the coming months and years.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we have too little time, commissioner, to resume the debate with what you have just answered. so we'll continue the discussion as you have asked. i would first like to thank all the speakers, in particular the fictitious rapporteurs, and my colleagues yannick jadot and harlem désir for our collaboration. the subjects were close and complementary and this allowed us to exchange ideas. it has also enabled us to work towards a common goal: to make trade less impervious to the notions of human rights, labour law and environmental law. as i said earlier, it will take time, and as you said, commissioner, it will take time for attitudes to change, but we cannot wait for them to change on their own. so if we implement some of the measures proposed in the various reports we have presented to you tonight, we will gradually move towards a fairer and greener economy. the european union must lead this change and set an example for its trading partners.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i thank commissioner de gucht for his answers and for his proposal for work. i have noted his reply on the climate chapter, and i hope that on the other points we will also be able to work and make proposals which will translate into concrete action and the inclusion of a number of elements in the trade agreements. finally, the fact that the wto trade negotiation - which is undoubtedly a very complicated negotiation - is broken also offers a lot of opportunities for the european union to incorporate more innovative elements into bilateral agreements and to try to build new types of trade agreements that better integrate the european union's environmental, climate, human rights or social rights objectives. so in a sense, this is an opportunity. i think that is a very strong request, and if these reports are approved by a very large majority tomorrow, it will still be - i want to believe it - an extremely important signal from the european parliament to the commission and to the council. a reply to mrs stassen, who has left, on the economy. economics books continued to be written after the 19th century. it can therefore be imagined that the issues of how to integrate social and environmental issues into production costs are an important part of defining the reality of comparative advantage. in the same way, mrs muscardini, you will always have me by your side when it comes to defending the food sovereignty of the european union and if, with me and with others, you are prepared to fight the blair house agreement, which is still the main obstacle to real food sovereignty, to real food security today in europe, you will have me by your side. so i thank all my colleagues and thank you, commissioner, for your openness to concrete work and concrete action in view of the agreements which will soon be negotiated and concluded.
the rapporteur. - mr president, you see, i had two minutes left. you knew that, so if you had a time problem, earlier, you could count it on this part of my talk, which could be shorter. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what was striking about this debate was the very broad consensus over the differences between the groups. there are still nuances to be found in calling for the social and environmental dimensions to be taken into account even more in trade policy and in the agreements we are negotiating. when you interrupted me with your very interesting speech, which i am sure will have excited our fellow citizens throughout the union, i wanted to mention one point that the commissioner himself has mentioned: that corporate social responsibility - he is absolutely right - cannot replace respect for the law and the responsibilities of the states. mr de gucht is also right to say that at the moment, within the oecd, but also at the un with the ruggie report which was mentioned by our colleague mr howitt, new advances are being proposed in the area of the liability of multinational companies: in the extraction sector, but also in many other areas of liability - particularly vis-à-vis their subsidiaries abroad - in their spheres of influence, or in their entire supply chain. judicial cooperation will also ensure that a parent company cannot escape liability for the actions of one of its subsidiaries or a subcontractor when it has committed violations of environmental or social rules. all of this is absolutely decisive. i simply think that we have to find the articulation, although i admit that it will be difficult, with the international trade agreements. there are already very small mentions of csr in the agreement with korea or in the agreements with latin american countries. i believe that, based on the dialogue we have started today with the commission, we must continue to ensure that our csr objectives are consistent with our sustainable development objectives in international trade agreements.
madam president, mr ombudsman, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us give a face to the europe of the citizens. it is the responsibility of all the european institutions to do their utmost to inform citizens of all the means of redress available to them in the event of breaches of community law and maladministration by the european institutions. first of all, i welcome the work of my colleague, mariya nedelcheva, in her report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2009. the european commission is most often accused by the ombudsman, and often for lack of information. the report by our colleague, mrs paliadeli, to whom i also extend my congratulations, is a striking example of this. secondly, i would like to thank our european ombudsman for all the work he has done, with his entire team, for his availability and his excellent cooperation with the committee on petitions. this is very important. its role is an essential guarantee for the principle of transparency and good administration, and this is the real protection for our citizens. finally, it is time that our fellow citizens were better informed about the means of redress they have with the european commission, namely the european ombudsman and the committee on petitions. we need a common internet portal for this, as we have already asked you to do. it would be a real help to our citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, a great deal has been said, particularly by my colleagues josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil and antolín sánchez presedo, on the one hand on the liveliness of the discussion we had in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the need to adopt texts quickly. i shall confine myself to two remarks which are a little more general, a little more political. firstly, the crisis has created retreat reflexes and nationalist and protectionist temptations in all our countries and we are therefore particularly vigilant in parliament to respect the internal market and to avoid its fragmentation. there is a problem here. i see colleagues in the committee shaking their heads. this is very important and we know that commissioner barnier, in support of the mario monti report, is working towards this. we at the alde group really believe in emulation as a driver of innovation. however, it must also be seen that european companies are in global competition and that, particularly for smes and especially for research and development, it is particularly important to find gateways and necessary to ensure that competition does not become mutually destructive for the benefit of companies in other parts of the world which, moreover, do not always compete very fairly with their competitors. it is therefore very important for us - of course with respect for property rights, this has been mentioned - that we find a way to prevent patent abuse while allowing competition. as is often the case, it's a delicate balance. finally, i would like to emphasize very strongly that i agree with what mr garcía-margallo y marfil said on the question of competition in the foodstuffs sector. we have a rather strange situation in europe where we deal very much with competition in some sectors and much less in others. it is clear that the disproportion between the number of producers and the number of buyers creates competition problems. i am therefore pleased, commissioner, that you have supported what mr garcía-margallo y marfil said.
(parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, we propose to change the end of paragraph 22 by replacing 'prevent' with 'inform' and the sentence at the end becomes: 'reiterates also parliament's request to the commission and member states to inform the european parliament about loans granted by export credit agencies and the european investment bank to projects that have a negative impact on the climate'.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we are proposing a change at the beginning of paragraph 32 in agreement with the fictitious rapporteurs. the first words of this paragraph would become, i read it in english because that is the language in which it was drawn up together: 'calls to explore, within the same forums, the elaboration of an international convention ...', and the rest of the paragraph unchanged.
in writing. you are certainly aware of the difficulties facing the european union once again when it comes to voting on the 2011 budget. the european commission and the european parliament wanted an increase of around 5% to implement the new european policies (regulation of financial markets, common foreign policy, etc.) made necessary by the challenges we are facing. given the current budgetary constraints, the european parliament ultimately preferred to reduce this increase to 2.91% provided that certain political conditions were met (debate on the allocation of the european union's own resources to put an end to the negotiations between member states, flexibility on the budget, financing of the major strategic priorities). the council of the european union refusing these conditions, i supported this new resolution of the european parliament because it clearly reaffirms the position of the european parliament which is both reasonable, constructive and ambitious. while my colleagues and i wish to contribute to the effort being made across europe, we also wish to underline the importance of european contributions to the coordination and support of policies across the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it recalls, in technical terms, the three requirements which condition the parliament's vote on the 2011 budget, namely the maintenance of the flexibility instrument, a budgetary instrument necessary to ensure the minimum financing of community competences and priorities, the commitment of the european commission to make concrete proposals on new own resources by july 2011, and the strong involvement of parliament in future debates on the european union's financing system, specifically on the issue of own resources and the development of the next financial framework. this resolution reaffirms the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon to the council so that it finally recognises the new legitimacy of parliament in budgetary matters. beyond the battle between institutions, we must be aware that it is the question of european integration and the future of the community project itself that is at stake in this debate on the budget, with parliament embodying the renewal of the community spirit and respect for the citizens of the union. finally, the member states which have ratified this treaty individually must take all the necessary measures and fulfil the stated ambitions.
in writing. before the commission proposes a new draft budget, the european parliament has reaffirmed its role in the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the financial resources for the programme are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. 2/ the need for concrete proposals from the commission for new own resources; 3/ the council's commitment to examine these proposals with parliament in the negotiations on the next multiannual budget. the resolution adopted by a very large majority demonstrates parliament's determination, if need be, that meps will only support the adoption of the 2011 budget if these three conditions are met.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the ongoing negotiations on the 2011 budget because it is absolutely fundamental that parliament should assume its new legitimacy in establishing the union's budget with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. since the conciliation committee failed to reach agreement despite the efforts made by parliament, we have in this text reaffirmed several requirements on which it is essential for the council to show flexibility: 1) the need for greater flexibility by the end of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework in order to take account of the new competences within the union and 2) respect for the strong involvement of parliament in the negotiation of the next financial framework after 2013 and following the commission's commitment to present specific proposals on the establishment of own resources for the union, the full association of parliament in this perspective. this resolution sends a strong message to the european council on 16 and 17 december.
in writing. the european union, thanks to the external competences granted to it by the european treaties, concludes numerous trade agreements every year. as the european union is expanding its competences in the field of human rights (inclusion of the charter of fundamental rights in primary law) and sustainable development (one of the five major europe 2020 objectives), i felt it was important to support the report by my colleague tokia saifi to better take these issues into account in the union's trade agreements. it naturally proposes to strengthen cooperation within existing international organisations, to systematise the inclusion of clauses on these matters, but also innovates by calling for the creation of a world environment organisation, which could be seized in the event of environmental dumping. the scheme also contains the possibility of a carbon inclusion mechanism. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. this dual instrument would thus make it possible to combat emissions transfers to third countries.
in writing. international trade agreements should be an opportunity for the eu to promote social and environmental standards with its partners. the report, adopted by a large majority, contains proposals to ensure that imported products comply with the same social and environmental standards as european products and that in the event of social or environmental dumping, there should be a possibility of appeal both to the ilo and to a world environmental organisation which should be set up rapidly. the free trade agreements currently under negotiation must contain clauses on human rights but also on economic, social and environmental standards to be respected; what 's the matter ? the eu will no longer be able to cope with unfair competition from low-cost but lower-quality imports. the future of european agriculture is at stake, but also that of the european industrial sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements because it is essential that eu trade policy is consistent with its political objectives. the text, substantially improved by the s&d group, makes it clear that trade can no longer be an end in itself but that any agreement must now respect a number of social and environmental clauses. these clauses will have to be binding and there are possibilities for referral, in particular to the un high commissioner for human rights.
in writing. the report highlights a number of relevant issues such as the periodic review of the application of the human rights clause in trade agreements by the un human rights council, the possibility of referral to the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights by the ilo, the involvement of national parliaments and third country citizens in negotiations and the fight against modern slavery. this concern for human rights is appreciated by a parliament which has endorsed the coup d'état in honduras and the signing of a trade agreement with the putschists. but beyond my doubts as to the real significance of the human rights text, the desire to establish free trade agreements everywhere and the promotion of the exchange of polluting rights, the so-called 'carbon market', prevent me from voting for this text.
in writing. in 2009, the european ombudsman received 3098 complaints, of which 727 were within his mandate. established by the maastricht treaty in 1992, this intermediary between european citizens and the union's authorities is empowered to receive complaints from european citizens and businesses, but also from institutions or any person legally resident or domiciled in a member state. elected by the european parliament at the beginning of its parliamentary term and for its entire term, he investigates any cases of maladministration brought to his attention. it shall draw up an annual report on its activities. by voting for this resolution, i am adding my voice to the general approval of the european parliament for the action of this essential link in democracy.
in writing. the european audiovisual tradition has allowed the emergence of a pluralistic media model based on a dual system. this original system provides a place for public service operators and commercial operators who balance each other in a complementary relationship. the digital revolution places new constraints on this dual system. the arrival of new communication channels, alternative networks, is putting the old order at risk. to preserve the complementarity of the old system and make room for new channels of communication, european broadcasting needs to be reformed. this is the meaning of the resolution i voted for, which attempts to meet the triple challenge of modernisation, convergence and respect for pluralism.
in writing. the eu regularly calls for freedom of expression to be respected in many third countries, but it must itself be virtuous and respect this principle. the resolution, adopted by a large majority on 25 november, calls on the member states to put an end to political interference in the content of public broadcasters and recalls that respect for european standards on freedom of expression, media pluralism and independence, and the funding of public service media should be a priority for all member states. parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected and to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in all member states. parliament also took the opportunity of this vote to recall that media independence requires appropriate and stable funding for public service media and transparency of the ownership of private broadcasters. finally, the member states are asked to adopt their legislation on public service broadcasting on the internet, adapting copyright to the new digital age.
in writing. it is rare in this house to see a public service advocate. i am not sure that a dual system necessarily allows for media pluralism, and i do not think that it is possible to free the private media from financial logic, but i welcome a text which advocates the maintenance of the public service broadcasting. it is the only one that can be controlled by the sovereign people and can allow everyone to have access to pluralistic and quality information, which is not the case in france today or in several countries dominated by the oligarchy.
in writing. broadcasting is at the heart of a technological revolution: the digitisation of media content and its accessibility via the internet has revolutionised the broadcasting paradigm. in the 1970s, commercial and private actors struggled to obtain broadcasting frequencies in the face of state monopolies. today, the proliferation of possibilities for consumers to access multimedia content requires us to define the necessary balance between public service and private media. what do we recommend in this report? the public service needs special attention, in the face of media concentration and commercial competition, to contribute, without political interference, to the maintenance of a public sphere providing high quality programmes and objective information. we ask the states to allocate sufficient resources to support the digitisation of the public service and, above all, to combat a dangerous digital divide. rural or urban environments, poor or disadvantaged populations, all must have equal and quality access to public service broadcasting. finally, given the income disparity between giants like google and those they refer, we need to think about how search engines can better contribute to funding content creation.
in writing. un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security was not the first resolution on these issues that the council has adopted since its establishment. however, it must be seen as a major moment in the integration of women and their consideration in security and peacekeeping operations. to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the adoption of this text, which coincides with the international day for the elimination of violence against women, my colleagues in the european parliament and i wanted to make clear the european parliament's willingness to promote the objectives of the resolution, and first and foremost in the actions of the european union. through the common european security and defence policy, within the newly created european external action service, and in partnership with other international strategic cooperation bodies, we want to advance the issue of women in acute conflict situations.
in writing. europe is still too dependent on fossil fuels, particularly oil, even though it is at the forefront of alternative production methods. this subjection has international consequences because most of these energy sources are foreign. the treaty of lisbon created new competences for the european union in the field of energy. this skill is very important. with this in mind, the european parliament has adopted, with my support, an energy strategy for the period 2011-2020. it will support investment in this area and encourage initiatives on renewable energy. the aim is obviously to ensure the security of supply in the union, which is why a great deal of attention is paid to the management of the gas and oil pipelines which currently supply europe. this strategy thus addresses both the short-term energy security needs and the anticipation of future challenges to europe's energy needs.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs kolarska-bobińska's motion for a resolution because i share her views on the overall direction of the future energy strategy of the european union: towards greater autonomy in relation to fossil fuel-supplying third countries, towards a break with the energy-isolated member states which are still not properly connected to the european energy system, towards the promotion of the development of renewable energies and towards external energy supply under the supervision of the new european external action service. we need a coherent and forward-looking european energy strategy.
in writing. the development of a genuine european energy strategy is now more than necessary. as mrs kolarska-bobinska's report explains, the european union is highly dependent on energy imports and has serious shortcomings in energy legislation. i agree with the rapporteur that the european union must provide itself with the material and financial means to achieve its objectives, in particular by providing substantial support for research and development in the energy sector. i also believe that security of supply depends on a strong partnership with russia. it is becoming increasingly necessary to significantly develop the construction of gas pipelines capable of bringing natural gas from all over the world to european territories, and to improve the interconnections between the energy networks of the member states in order to improve solidarity between them.
in writing. the european union is now one of the major players in the international energy market. however, the eu has few raw materials and is forced to import them in large quantities. this simple fact raises the question of the security of supply and the dependence of our continent on the outside world. all these issues have been at the heart of the european union's concerns for many years. that is why my colleagues in the european parliament and i voted for a resolution calling for diversification of the eu's sources of supply to avoid future supply difficulties and for greater strategic coherence in this sector. in voting in favour of this resolution i also wanted to reaffirm that energy efficiency must be a priority for the european union. this seems to me to be the best way to reduce the eu's energy dependence, but also and above all to combat climate change, which is now an absolute imperative.
in writing. this text is an ode to nuclear power, the carbon market and the desertec project. he also advocated close cooperation with nato. in line with the principles of ecology and peace which i defend, i am voting against this text.
in writing. the week before the opening of the climate conference in cancún, the european parliament voted a resolution on the objectives of the summit. the failure of the long-awaited copenhagen conference is still on everyone's minds, and everyone hopes that this new opportunity to advance international climate cooperation will not be wasted. unfortunately, i do not think that the resolution adopted on thursday at the last plenary session is constructive in this respect. while my colleagues in the epp political group and i wanted to keep a 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target by 2020, which would have given us a reasonable basis for negotiating with the americans and the chinese, the greens and the socialists succeeded in getting the unrealistic 30% target adopted. i do not believe that this kind of unilateral commitment is good news for the negotiations that are beginning in cancun and i regret the adoption of this text, which i opposed.
in writing. with just a few days to go before the opening of the cancún climate change conference, the joint resolution voted by parliament calls on 'the heads of state and government of the world to show real authority and political will during the negotiations'. concrete and rapid action is needed because the evidence is compelling: our commitments as they stand are not likely to minimise the damage of climate change. in short, our governments need to do more, and faster. the european union must play a leading role in the negotiations by speaking with one voice to weigh in against china and the united states. on targets, we call for more ambition: we need to adopt a target of 30% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the union by 2020 compared to 1990 levels (paragraph 16). it is true that the fight against climate change has become one of the major political challenges in recent years, but we have not yet had the desired results: energy efficiency and the 20% rate of renewable energies to be achieved by 2020, for example, are not on the agenda! cancun is an opportunity to do better, let's not miss it...again!
in writing. the european union will have to speak with one voice and be ambitious and persuasive at the climate change conference in cancún, lest the failure of copenhagen be repeated. concrete and rapid action is needed because the evidence is compelling: our commitments as they stand are not likely to minimise the damage of climate change. the european union must play a leading role in the negotiations by speaking with one voice to weigh in against china and the united states. the major objective to be achieved is a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the union by 2020 compared to 1990 levels. we also need to get a commitment from industrialized countries like the united states to developing countries to help them fight and adapt to climate change, by fighting deforestation, desertification, etc. it is time for our governments to take stock of the climate challenges ahead and to build a political consensus to put in place a truly global policy to combat climate change.
in writing. the european union adopted an ambitious target in 2008 under the french presidency to reduce its co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. this objective is already very difficult to win over the other countries involved in the international climate change negotiations. in the absence of an international agreement, this european objective may also imply a loss of competitiveness at international level for european companies in certain sectors of the economy. proposing a new target of 30% reduction in co2 emissions in the european union is therefore completely disproportionate and that is why i voted against this draft resolution. the position adopted by parliament today does not put the european union in a credible negotiating position with its partners to reach an agreement at the cancún conference next month.
in writing. after the failure of the copenhagen conference and the many disappointed hopes for the setting of ambitious targets to combat climate change, the european union must commit itself with conviction to achieving a convincing result at the cancun conference. we have therefore adopted a resolution in the european parliament calling for the european union to increase its commitment to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 from 20% to 30%. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there is no time to lose and that if we wait and procrastinate, it will be too late. the european union must create momentum within the international community to achieve real results.
in writing. i voted against the final adoption of this resolution. the lack of realism in the objectives that have been voted is striking. the unilateral adoption by the eu of a 30% emission reduction target by 2020 would have a serious impact on competitiveness and employment in france. there are too many uncertainties in the negotiations for the eu to set such binding targets. last year europe made the mistake of thinking that it could impose its vision on its partners in copenhagen. if the eu makes these mistakes again, there is no way it will even be at the negotiating table. we can talk about 30% when an international agreement is reached on this figure.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on the cancun climate change conference because, following the failure of the last copenhagen conference, it is more urgent than ever that the european union should have strong objectives in a united way. the text reaffirms the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the union by 30% by 2020, with a view to limiting the global temperature rise to 2°c. the text, realistic, takes account of the 'common but differentiated' responsibility of states according to their level of development and growth. it also provides for the creation of a 'green fund' to meet the financing needs, with priority for vulnerable countries.
in writing. this resolution takes up many of the points made in the cochabamba contribution. i welcome this and am surprised that it is not mentioned anywhere in the text. it proposes to define and enforce the principle of climate justice and acknowledges without mentioning it the climate debt owed by the countries of the north to the countries of the south. the objectives it proposes for reducing greenhouse gas emissions are in line with those set by the ipcc. energy sobriety, although the word is not yet in use, is finally on the agenda. if the exchange of polluting rights known as the 'carbon market' and the establishment of a 'global carbon market' were not one of the main points of this text, i could have voted for it.
in writing. serious incidents have recently occurred again in western sahara. this territory, which was administered by spain until 1976, remains the subject of intense tensions between the moroccan authorities and the independence campaigners. the western sahara, which lies between the atlantic, mauritania and southern morocco, was divided between these two countries by the spanish. the resolution proposed by some of my colleagues on the tragedy of 24 october was drafted in a hurry, even though a certain degree of restraint is essential on such matters. i have therefore decided to abstain on this text and to follow the current investigation closely.
in writing. the violence in western sahara, in the gdim izik camp during its dismantling and in the town of laayoune, is serious and must be strongly condemned. the european parliament is right to express its concern at the deterioration of the situation in the region. as the un has recalled, the parties to the conflict must agree to reach a realistic, just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution in accordance with the relevant un security council resolutions. however, i regret that this text was drawn up without waiting for parliament to have the tangible facts and precise data on the circumstances that led to this tragedy and on the exact number of victims. journalists, independent investigators, observers and political leaders must be allowed access to the city of laayoune and the refugee camps in order to be able to shed light on these events in a calm manner. the plight of the sahrawi people must not be used to encourage further violence.
in writing. like my colleagues, i deplore the recent events in western sahara and wish to express my solidarity with all the families of the victims. however, i refused to join this resolution which contains many factual errors, omits key facts and does not objectively report on the violence that erupted on 8 november 2010. the resolution should have been guided by prudence and by tangible and indisputable evidence. instead, this unbalanced text makes a hasty and uninformed judgment on the situation and discredits, without any foundation, the independent investigation carried out by the moroccan authorities. i regret this partisan statement made in haste because it weighs on the climate of informal negotiations at the un between the kingdom of morocco and the polisario front and has generated tensions on the ground. we are losing sight of what should be our priority: the search for a balanced and mutually acceptable agreement between the two sides to restore stability and security to the civilian population. we must absolutely avoid opening a new front in the sensitive sahel region and preserve our strategic partnership with morocco.
in writing. since the collapse of the ussr, ukraine has become a major issue in european geopolitics. it has regained its independence, but is still an integral part of the 'near abroad' defined by moscow. in order to fully enjoy its freedom of action and to highlight its strong historical links with the european union, ukraine has for some time been making known its intention to join the member states of the european union. ukraine, rich in natural resources and located in the heart of a key region, should be seen as a strategic pivot for the european union. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution which welcomes ukraine's european orientation. it is, however, a reminder of the progress that this fragile democracy still has to make. at the same time, it notes the important efforts and significant progress that the country has made in recent times. if it is measured, it affirms ukraine's european destiny.
in writing. in december 2009, the un climate summit took place, where unfortunately the european union was not able to play the role it wanted. as a leader in sustainable development, it is important that it extends this commitment to international trade policies. that is why, at the opening of the cancún summit, my colleagues in the european parliament and i wanted to give a voluntary mandate to the delegation which will defend the european positions. we call on the european commission to discriminate between imported products on the basis of their ecological footprint and to establish a carbon footprint of all trade policies. recalling that the fight against climate change is a factor of competitiveness, our resolution calls for the awareness of all industrial sectors to the problem of carbon leakage and the end of fossil fuel subsidies, in particular tax exemptions for air transport.
in writing. the report by yannick jadot points out that trade in goods and services is responsible for around 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions and that this should be taken into account in the fight against climate change. while the european union has put in place ambitious climate policies, it is essential that trade policies also reflect this political imperative. i join the rapporteur in deploring the fact that some countries, by subsidizing energy prices and applying no co2 restrictions or quotas, could benefit from a comparative advantage. it is regrettable that these countries have no interest in joining multilateral agreements on climate change and are encouraging unfair competition in this respect. the european union's trade policy is not an end in itself but must remain a political instrument for regulation. we must ensure fair competition and refuse to allow our climate efforts to penalise us in global trade.
in writing. eu trade policies have an impact on the climate and the eu's responsibility cannot be limited to the greenhouse gas emissions it produces on its own territory. the european parliament adopted by a large majority this report which seeks to improve the coherence between trade and climate, making proposals on the discrimination of products according to their climate impact, and on the achievement of carbon accounting for all trade policies. while it is regrettable that some of the ambitious proposals have not been supported by the conservatives, the adoption of this report is still a clear call for a green transformation of our economy.
in writing. corporate social responsibility in international agreements promotes better governance of the global economy, promotes a fairer, more social and more humane globalisation and serves sustainable development. in the age of globalisation, i support this proposal to moralize international trade practices.
in writing. since the end of the second world war, the european union has benefited greatly from the opening up of international markets. on the other hand, we can regret that the european social model, which accompanied globalisation on the continent, has had little resonance in international trade negotiations. that is the subject of the resolution on which i voted this week. with this text i wished the union to take a strong position on the question of social dumping. it also called for the notion of corporate social responsibility, recognised by the oecd, the ilo and the united nations, to be integrated into the generalised system of preferences; the commission should carry out further impact studies to assess the effects of trade agreements on european smes; the commission has also proposed that these agreements now systematically include a clause on corporate social responsibility. as in the field of sustainable development, the european union must assert its convictions in the social model and make it a platform for progress in globalisation.
in writing. foreign investment is a very important economic issue for emerging and developing countries. however, given the weakness of social and environmental legislation in these countries, there are fears of abuses in terms of working conditions, human rights violations or environmental damage. this is why the european parliament has called for the inclusion of a social responsibility clause for companies investing in developing countries in trade agreements signed by the european union. this clause will make it possible to require clear and verifiable commitments from these companies, their subsidiaries and their supply chain regarding the social and environmental impact of their activity. it will also create a right of appeal for victims. this is a good response to raise the level of social and environmental protection requirements worldwide.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on corporate social responsibility in trade agreements. globalisation has brought intense competition between countries, leading to intolerable abuses by many multinationals in developing countries in terms of working conditions, human rights violations and environmental damage. parliament called for a clause on corporate social responsibility to be included in all trade agreements signed by the european union. this clause will require the regular publication of reports on the social and environmental impact of the activities of companies, their subsidiaries and their supply chains. the report calls for judicial cooperation between the eu and signatory states and trade agreements to ensure effective access to justice for victims of violations of social and environmental legislation by multinationals and their subsidiaries.
in writing. corporate social responsibility can be a blink of an eye and a way of limiting certain abuses and suggesting that others are acceptable. however, it can provide a conceptual and legal framework for state intervention in production and its social and ecological conditions. i therefore support this text.
in writing. competition regulation is a pillar of the great internal market project that the european union has been pursuing since its creation. far from favouring large groups, competition policy aims to protect small operators against practices that distort competition. agreements between firms, for example to promote research programmes, may conceal an agreement to eliminate a competitor. on the contrary, the dynamism of the european economy is partly due to this capacity for cooperation. the european commission is therefore pursuing a pragmatic policy. it regularly sets out categories of agreements which must escape the rigorousness of the competition rules because they are ultimately beneficial. when it came to renewing these regulations, the european commission did a lot of consultation work. the draft regulation takes account of the european parliament's views and is in line with its views on the subject. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
author. - madam president, i would like to reiterate, on the occasion of this debate on the situation in iraq, on the death sentence against tarek aziz and on the situation of christians in iraq, the total opposition of my group to the death penalty. but i would also like to express the indignation of my group at the brutal deterioration of the situation of christians in iraq, and express our deep concern at the recent deadly attacks on christian communities in iraq, including the cowardly hostage-taking in the syrian cathedral in baghdad on 31 october last, which left 58 dead. we also express our solidarity with the victims and their families. we would like to take this opportunity to make a solemn and serious appeal to the iraqi authorities to do everything possible to ensure the safety and integrity of the christians of iraq: to protect the places of worship in iraq - all places of worship - to guarantee the freedom of religion of the christians of iraq, but also of all religious communities and religious minorities, and to work towards reducing inter-ethnic violence. it's really about peace, about national reconciliation in this country and about defending our values of freedom and tolerance.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, my group, the gue/ngl, did not join the joint resolution on this subject, nor did it join the resolution on tibet. the sessions this thursday afternoon are becoming more and more surreal in this house, both because of the emptiness we see and because of the subjects discussed and the way they are dealt with. the recurring views of some here on this or that country or on this or that subject run counter to the universalist and indivisible conception of human rights as they are explicitly stated in the international texts we claim to defend. this approach and this attitude undermine the credibility of the european union in this area and play into the hands of those who say that europeans have a western view of human rights and that they are trying to impose their model here too. i would like to join you in condemning the death sentences, including that of tarek aziz, and the executions, which are very numerous in iraq but which also affect women and children, and i would like us to condemn in the same way the situation of thousands of people who are being detained without cause, without trial and subjected to torture. i would like us to denounce the abuses committed by the iraqi forces and the occupying forces, to denounce the child soldiers and, especially today, on this international day of violence against women, the violence against women in iraq in the context of this conflict. i also wish we had exposed the way the us abandoned camp ashraf without caring about the hundreds of people who lived in that camp. for all these reasons, madam president, the gue/ngl group will abstain on this resolution, as it will on the one on tibet.
madam president, christians are probably one of the most persecuted religious groups in the world. in the middle east, they are seen by some extremist groups as and i quote "legitimate targets" and the aim is their outright departure from this region, which is the birthplace of christianity and in which their historical presence is necessary for a certain balance. the events in the baghdad cathedral are only the culmination of a situation which we have been passively observing for far too long. the european union, as a global player and trading partner of many countries in the region, must express its strong indignation at this situation. discrimination of any kind cannot be tolerated. democracy will only be victorious in this region if the most basic human rights, such as religious freedom, are respected.
by voting this resolution, the european parliament, the voice of the citizens and of european democracy, has sent a strong message to the chinese authorities: the annihilation and enslavement of one culture for the benefit of another is not worthy of a nation that claims to be great and modern. the tibetan people have a legitimate demand: respect for their history and language. it is not only tibetan culture that is endangered by this unjust decision: cantonese, among other languages, would also be a victim of this policy of standardization. if the chinese constitution itself recognizes the right of every citizen to express themselves in the language of their choice, how can the political authorities justify such a legal setback? the simple motto of the european union carries the clear and precise message that we should convey to the chinese authorities through this resolution: united in diversity.
mr president, my group would like to see the two oral questions concerning both the van rompuy task force report and the six legislative packages of the committee on economic governance re-listed. firstly, for institutional reasons, since article 9 of the lisbon treaty gives us the prerogative and authority to enforce the horizontal social clause and, in particular, the social impact assessment for major provisions, directives or decisions which have consequences for our fellow citizens. mr john monks, president of the european trade union confederation, has just written to express his concern that the austerity plans are directly affecting employees' incomes, their wages and their pensions. the political reason why i am asking you this, mr president, on behalf of my group, is that we must show that when we discuss the regulation of markets, we are not only speaking about markets but we are also voting and legislating in favour of our fellow citizens. i would like to ask the house to support the re-submission of these oral questions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to present this evening these two reports, which i will be discussing jointly, on the agreements between the union and georgia, the first on visa facilitation and the second on the readmission of persons with irregular residence. the first agreement on readmission obligations provides for full reciprocity between national and third-country nationals. it of course sets out the terms of readmission - readmission requests, information, documents provided, evidence, means of proof, time limits, transfer, transport, transit arrangements, etc. - unlike the eu-pakistan readmission agreement - which you may remember - which i strongly opposed a few months ago here, i would like to say that i fully agree with it, as it of course respects human rights and should be able to be guaranteed in the context of its application, as georgia is a signatory to the geneva convention on refugees and the european convention on human rights. these are two conditions which i consider essential for the approval of such an agreement. the second agreement on visa facilitation is intended to make it easier for georgian citizens, in particular those travelling as students, journalists, etc., to obtain short-stay visas for travel to the european union and thus to simplify substantially all the requirements for documents required in support of such applications. i would also remind you that of course the two agreements go hand in hand, because according to the common approach, in principle an agreement to facilitate the issuing of visas can only be concluded if there is a readmission agreement. so there are two important points to be made. this is a key step in the deepening of relations between the union and georgia, which has shown in recent years a very clear desire to come closer to us. these agreements are a first step in the development of a special relationship and a strong signal from the union to georgia. these agreements are of course also of interest at regional level. they will contribute to the union's efforts to strengthen cooperation with other countries also in the south caucasus region. i think, of course, with all of us, that this is also an encouragement to georgia to implement all the necessary reforms which the president, a few days ago, stressed the need for in the area of freedom, security and justice. this may make it possible to fight illegal immigration even more effectively together and to promote the development of democracy, in a word and in a thousand. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve these two agreements with georgia. but i would like to conclude by reminding you, commissioner, that while our cooperation is of an excellent quality, a few months ago, when discussing the readmission agreement with pakistan, you solemnly stated that you would undertake to produce an evaluation of the readmission agreements in force and a regular report to the european parliament on these agreements, whether they have already been concluded or are being negotiated. and i would like you to confirm once again, solemnly or not, before this house that we will not be left out of the loop and either too little involved or too little informed as regards the opening, the conduct of the negotiations on the agreements and therefore since your statement. i think it is a necessity for us to move forward together, effectively, based on our values.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate. i fully agree with you that visa facilitation and visa liberalisation is a very strong tool for increasing people-to-people contact. not only ordinary citizens, students, tourists, it also increases business possibilities and that is a very good thing. we have decided in the european union to move towards visa liberalisation with the western balkans. that in itself is a political decision. it shows political will, and that is very important, but the achievement of this goal can only be very technical and very strict. we cannot abolish visas unless we have very strict criteria. these criteria are open. they are transparent. they are the same for everybody and they are bringing about important reforms in the countries that want to achieve visa facilitation and visa liberalisation. and yes, mr busuttil, the commission does monitor this very closely and the expert missions are composed also of experts from member states. all these reports and all this work is done in a very transparent way. having said that, there have been a few cases of abuse, notably in serbia and in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. now, this should not overshadow that overwhelmingly; it works well, but there are abuses. the commission has addressed that. we have been there. we have talked to our interlocutors. the belgian presidency has been very active. we are trying to assess this problem. it is mainly a small group of criminal networks that encourage people in remote areas to travel to the european union under false premises in the hope that they will receive asylum. we will of course examine all these applications on an individual basis, but very many of them are unfounded and this is why we need to address these networks. this is being done and we are in dialogue with the authorities from these countries. i was personally in tirana and in sarajevo only a month ago, together with the belgian minister, in order to reinforce this message, that this is very important but beware of abuses. we said it to all the ministers, to members of the parliament, members of civil society, the universities and, i think, all the tv channels that we could find in these countries, in order to make it very clear that this is a fantastic opportunity but please do not abuse it. we have an evaluation and monitoring mechanism in place and i will be happy to report to you later this spring on how it is working. on russia, this has indeed led to a lot of good things, to increased mobility between our countries. according to all evaluations, confirmed by member states, there are no signals that the visa facilitation has led to any increased security threats nor to increased irregular immigration. we are now identifying a list of common steps for russia and the european union to take in order to open possibilities for further talks on moving towards visa liberalisation. on georgia, i just want to reiterate to my green friends what the rapporteur has also said, that they have acceded to the council of europe and the european convention of human rights on the readmission agreement. eu laws also require member states to individually assess an asylum application and, should there be a need for international protection, they must under eu law respect that and also the principle of non-refoulement, that is not to return a person to a country if there is a possibility that this person will be subjected to persecution or serious harm. overall i think that this was a very good debate. i am looking forward to reporting to you on the evaluation of the readmission agreement. they are indeed very hard to negotiate, mr busuttil, but we are working on it. as i said earlier in this debate there will be an evaluation at the beginning of next year and i will be happy to come to parliament and to discuss its conclusions and how we can move further in facilitating these kinds of agreements with third countries.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i too, like our commissioner, welcome the quality of our debate which shows the real responsibility of our institutions in general. this responsibility was also expressed in the commissioner's replies, the commitments made and reiterated at the various meetings for evaluation in february and june 2011. of course, i did not wish that for pakistan at the outset, i was actually recalling our basic positions. i would also like to thank her for her willingness to express her views on mutual security, on the answers to questions, on openness and cooperation, on adjustment and the fight against abuse and on compliance with these various legal conditions. if these agreements provide a legal framework for the organization, under precise and strict conditions, of visa facilitation and readmission procedures, this must not be confused with the absolute necessity, which is for us to define the terms and outlines of a european right of asylum. in conclusion, i think this policy is a bit like the janus bifrons. we talked politics and technology. for me, the janus bifrons is two profiles that make up one face, between the technical and the political. there is the technical aspect, that of procedures, the legal and compliance conditions, but also the political aspect, which is characterized - as some of my colleagues have said - by deepening, cooperation and the opening up of the union to third countries, a sign of our values, but it is also a question of responding in some way to the wish of europeans for this opening up. i would like to conclude by saying that we must strike a balance between these elements and do everything we can to make them clear to our fellow citizens. to explain to them what a three-month visa really is and thus avoid any ambiguities or other misunderstandings that might arise. i'm counting on you, commissioner.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the european union has been trying to establish legislative instruments for economic immigration for more than ten years now. the commission has preferred a sectoral approach to an initially global approach. this proposal for a directive highlights the need for a common policy on legal immigration, particularly economic immigration. we have so far legislated on illegal immigration, border control, visa policy. it was time to move forward together on economic immigration, as the european union faces challenges common to all its member states, which require common solutions at european level. these challenges are the demographic decline and ageing of the european population. the overall employment forecasts show that there will be considerable labour shortages in the coming years as a result of these two problems affecting europe as a whole. so solutions need to be found at european level to meet the needs of the labour market and economic immigration is one of the solutions we need to explore. but be careful not to be mistaken. determining a european approach to the management of legal immigration means organising it, taking into account, of course, the needs and reception capacities of each member state. as stated in articles 1 and 8 of this proposal for a directive, the member states retain control over the number of migrants they wish to admit to their national territory. our governments have worked in various ways to regulate economic immigration - bilateral agreements, quotas, regulatory measures - but none of these measures have proved to be truly effective in managing legal migration flows and at the same time fighting illegal immigration. the link between the two is obvious. it is by organising legal immigration in an optimal way that we will succeed in putting an end to illegal immigration. and that is the whole point of the adoption of this package of measures presented by the commission five years ago. what will this 'single permit' directive bring to the existing legal landscape of economic immigration? unlike the blue card directive, this directive does not deal with the conditions of admission of workers from third countries, but it aims to eliminate the differences between the various national laws concerning the procedure for applying for a work permit and a residence permit, and the rights conferred on foreigners legally working in the european union. there is as yet no european instrument covering all the rights afforded to third-country nationals legally working and residing in the union. this directive will therefore put an end to these differences in protection between these workers by ensuring equal treatment with national workers in a significant number of areas: working conditions, education and vocational training, social protection, access to goods and services, tax benefits. this common framework thus aims to offer these people protection against exploitation by guaranteeing them the benefit of a secure and protective legal status. it also helps to combat unfair competition to the detriment of european workers. this differential in protection ultimately leads to the recruitment of low-skilled and weakly protected workers at the expense of european workers. the directive will also simplify the procedures for admission for employment purposes. all member states will have a standardised procedure which is simpler, cheaper and faster. the adoption of this directive will therefore bring major benefits to migrants, employers and national administrations and will ultimately allow for better management of legal migration flows. parliament is now a co-legislator, which means that it must also show responsibility - an idealistic and outdated view - we must be up to the new tasks that the lisbon treaty has given us. let us present ourselves as credible partners ready to take on the great challenge of managing the migratory pressure at europe's doorstep. we know that well-managed migration flows will be beneficial to all.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, as mr cercas has very well pointed out, there is a disagreement between the committees on employment and freedom. our parliament should therefore refuse to vote on this so-called single licence directive. the text has, in fact, only one objective, if one reads it correctly, namely to put workers from the european union in competition with those from countries outside europe, and even immigrant workers with each other according to their status. if the directive remains as it is, there will be several statutes: that of residents, that of seasonal workers, that of workers transferred within the same undertaking. this would make it official that there are several categories of workers in the european union. accepting this would be a violation of the principles of the charter of fundamental rights. contrary to what you have said, madam rapporteur, with such differences in status, there is a permanent downward pressure on the living, working and employment conditions of all employees in the european union. equality cannot be reduced to the mere mention of working conditions. as mr cercas said, equality must concern wages, working time, job security, health, leave, social protection, access to public services, training. without this common minimum, it will be the jungle of competition, stigma, exclusion, exploitation without limits. equality must be the concern of all workers, regardless of their origin. we must not accept the addition of new forms of competition between workers to those introduced by the sinister bolkestein. equality between workers must be the subject of a single positive directive reaffirming this principle. if not, then it is in the name of workers' europe, social europe, a humanist europe that we all together, beyond our opinions, in this parliament, reject this directive.
madam president, i must admit that it is extremely curious to start a directive which aims to guarantee a legal framework for effective access to rights for all workers by a long list of exclusions of categories of workers from this directive. this is taking the form of the construction of legal migration but also of a european labour market in the form of thousands of leaves where each category of workers would be allocated, depending on their value, a kind of portfolio of rights. we are therefore very far from a horizontal and universal approach to workers' rights. i think that the european leaders have not yet understood that more rights for workers means more economic efficiency and more social cohesion, more individual and collective benefits for migrants, of course, for host societies and for societies of origin. as a study by the london school of economics shows, the regularization of 600 000 irregular workers in britain, who will not have access to this single application procedure, would bring three billion pounds into the british coffers. i don't think we're up to the challenge at all.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has indeed been a very good debate. regarding the scope of the directive, it is no secret that the commission would have liked a global approach. my predecessors proposed this many years ago. it was impossible. it still is, so we therefore have this sectoral approach. i do not like it, but it is the only way to move forward. the directive is necessary because we have third-country workers. they are in our countries and make an important contribution to our economies. we need to protect them. having said that, contrary to some of the views that have been expressed here today, let me emphasise that the present directive establishes the principle of equal treatment for migrant workers in all employment-related areas, including employment conditions and wages. it does not create discrimination. once adopted, the directive will be a very important tool in the fight for the protection of migrant workers and against social dumping. nobody wants social dumping. we want to protect these people. other categories of workers, such as seasonal workers and icts (intra-corporate transferees), are not included in the present proposal. i share your view that we need to protect them. that is why, before the summer, the commission proposed two separate instruments covering icts and seasonal workers, specifically targeted to protect them. i am sure that, once the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and the committees really start working on those proposals, they will do their utmost to make sure that those categories are also protected and that we can progress in those fields as well. i am also aware that some people or groups here would like to have included posted workers – who are now excluded. the directive which we are discussing today is supposed to avoid discrimination, not create new discrimination, so let us treat the issue of posted workers separately and not in this context. the commission is about to launch an impact assessment study on the issue. it has announced a revision of the posted workers directive for the end of next year. the question of the personal scope of the posted workers directive could be addressed as part of the announced revision of the posted workers directive. as regards the issue of correlation tables, which ms in ‘t veld raised, the commission fully shares her view, not only as regards this directive. it would have been and hopefully it will be an important tool for addressing the issue of better regulation and greater transparency on the part of member states when they implement the various directives. it will be good for you; it will be good for us, the national parliaments and citizens. we keep repeating this to the council. if it facilitates things, the commission is prepared to make a declaration on this. however, we do not want to jeopardise the directive if it is possible to reach a decision tomorrow, when you vote on this issue. however, we will keep on fighting for this and we will come back to it for many other pieces of legislation. thank you for this debate. thank you for the very hard work that many people have been doing, particularly ms mathieu and mr cercas. i hope that we can reach an agreement and have a positive vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, i am only going to add to your point of view, since you have given a perfect answer to the 23 colleagues who spoke on our text, to mr cercas and to myself. i can only thank all the rapporteurs on this text from all the political groups with whom we have had a lot of dialogue and very good cooperation throughout this year, since this cooperation lasted a year. we started at the beginning of the year and we are finishing with the belgian presidency. i thank you, mrs malmström, for your attention to this text and for your services. i also thank the council for listening very attentively to us and i also thank the honourable members who spoke this evening. i would like to say that we will indeed vote tomorrow on first reading. it's a compromise. so a compromise is never 100% satisfactory and if there are colleagues who still need reassurance, i hope that in any case the intervention you have made will reassure them. as for my colleague hélène flautre, who said earlier that we were beginning the text of a report with exclusions, remember that all the workers mentioned in the exclusion were, in any case, subject to directives which concerned them in a very specific way. so there was no question of excluding a certain number of workers from third countries. i hope that the text of this report, which we have drawn up with all the rapporteurs and which we will present to the other members tomorrow, will be a great step forward for workers from third countries.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i should like to concentrate my remarks on mr luhan's report. we agree with mr luhan on at least one point: regional cohesion policies have a key role to play in europe for a balanced economic development, socially harmonious and ecologically efficient, that is, ultimately globally competitive. i would also like to thank mr luhan for having incorporated some of our amendments which are aimed at the establishment of a sustainable low-carbon economy which respects biodiversity. however, we will not be able to vote on its resolution because the vision it develops of cohesion policy as an instrument of global competitiveness remains too narrow, too limited, too insufficient in our view. we have two obstacles: firstly, the rapporteur relies almost exclusively on quantitative schemes translated into infrastructure as a growth engine, plus is his fundamental criterion. we do not think that is appropriate for the present situation. for example, it identifies 246 operational programmes in research and development and welcomes them, without asking about their content. it's good to look, but you have to know what you're looking for. second obstacle: the rapporteur does not make clear enough the projects; we would like a strong choice to face the challenges that his report lists, the choice of a green economy, the choice of a green new deal that would be the only one that would be able to pull europe and its regions upwards.
in writing. there is now a very strong threshold effect between the regions eligible for the convergence objective and the others. this is extremely damaging for a number of regions which, although not poor, are not rich. it would be particularly appropriate to mitigate this threshold effect by creating an intermediate category of regions, between the 'convergence' and 'regional competitiveness and employment' objectives. i am glad that this proposal is included in the conclusions of the fifth cohesion report. this intermediate category could be targeted at regions with a gdp per capita between 75% and 90% of the community average. i also hope that this system will replace the transition mechanism and also take into account regions which are not affected by an exit from the convergence objective. in the context of the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework, this new architecture of cohesion policy will have to be done on a constant budget. i would remind you, however, that just over 20 regions are expected to be excluded from the convergence objective, which will lead to savings of eur 10 billion per year. these amounts could very well be reallocated to a new intermediate category of regions.
in writing. the luhan and manescu reports rightly recall the principles which must guide our cohesion policy. however, i would like to stress three areas where we need to be more ambitious. firstly, territorial cohesion, which is a very important aspect of the community's development. the concept is often cited but rarely translated into concrete actions. we must, for example, pay particular attention to the border areas. the handicaps and difficulties faced by these regions reflect the limits of european integration. we need to turn these fracture territories into seam territories. secondly, the unequal treatment of regions which are between objective 1 and objective 2. some regions, with the same gdp, have aid intensities ranging from 1 to 10. it is time to put in place a transitional mechanism that treats fairly all regions whose gdp is between 75% and 90% of the community average. finally, work is needed on new performance indicators. the development challenges of regions depend on their territorial constraints. we need to refine our criteria at all levels of governance to truly measure regional development needs and objectives.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why a report on advertising? because advertising, it can be the worst as it can be the best. the worst is if it is lying, if it is intrusive, if it is misleading, if it does not play its part, if, in the end, it does not provide what the consumer expects from it, that is to say, information. the best, because advertising is also a great tool for economic development. advertising is a kind of lubricant for the economy, as some have said, advertising is also an element that provides the consumer, when done well, with comparison points, and it stimulates, in a certain way, competition. so advertising is not something new, and why a new text, when there are already texts? for a number of reasons. first, because today's advertising is not yesterday's advertising. i recently read a report from the united states, but in europe the situation is quite similar: on 29 november last, in one day, online commerce accounted for more than one billion dollars in turnover. so that's a huge increase in online commerce and online advertising tools. and one of the reasons for this report is that the texts which regulate advertising are sometimes totally unsuitable for the tools which have emerged in recent years. advertising can be intrusive, and it is increasingly so, invading privacy. advertising is another very new element which is not dealt with in the texts. advertising can be hidden. the ad may not say his name. there is this famous example on facebook, on social networks a new tool that is not addressed by legislation , we see groups of people appearing who denounce this or that supposed defect of this or that product. all of this is capable of literally destroying a brand in a matter of days or weeks. so, you can see that yesterday's advertising is not today's advertising at all, that this one uses tools that did not exist - i think about behavioral advertising, targeted advertising, reading your private emails. who here wants, who here wants their private e-mails read? well, that's the way it is today for advertising purposes. i think that we should think about some very simple values: respect for privacy, protection of the most vulnerable, because we know very well that children are among the most vulnerable to receive what is called behavioural advertising, that is to say, targeted advertising. these children do not understand that this is not just a simple advertisement that comes to their home by chance. it's an ad targeted to their particular desires. as much as an adult could understand it, a child cannot. well, new technology, new challenges - and considerable economic challenges. we are in the midst of a real political debate. the question is solved, if we listen to some professionals who do not want to touch the world of advertising. and it's true that we hear some professionals tell us that basically, consumers are warned by broad and extremely detailed privacy policies on websites. in fact, it is well known that these long, incomprehensible privacy policies are not read, and when they are read, they are not understood, they are even illegible. it is clear that the bottom line is always the same: advertising must be fair, respectful of others, respectful of privacy. the consumer must not be spied on, must not be targeted without his knowledge. the consumer, the citizen, must be respected. mr president, and i will end here, we must therefore have two objectives. first, fairer, more fair, more respectful, more effective advertising, more respectful of privacy, but also of citizens, that is to say, of consumers, better informed, not manipulated, better informed, with a sharper critical mind. that's the whole point of this report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that you will accept this report and vote in favour of it in general in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, this text is of course very complex, but what is it really about? it is a question of drawing the lessons of the crisis once again: no, we must not do things as before, yes, we must change the rules of the game, we must put the system in order. those who today in the various countries of the union are taking advantage of the crisis and the anxiety of the citizens to blame everything on europe, we hear everywhere: 'if europe is not working, it is because of the euro, and besides, i have the solution, we must leave europe, we must put an end to the euro ...'. we must tell all these people again and again that we need common rules, that if the countries of europe were not united, if they were isolated, they would be dead today. yes, we need regulation, common policy, common rules, a flattening of our rules and a better functioning of the system. my dear colleagues, the matter is quite simple at bottom, together we are strong, alone we are dead!
for the greens/efa group mr president, this is a very good report, the first post-lisbon, and i would first like to thank its rapporteur, mrs gál, for her seriousness, availability and fruitful cooperation. i would like to return to four messages in this report. the first is that we want to require the commission to play its role in the light of the new means at its disposal and the entry into force of the charter of fundamental rights. the situation of the roma has played the unpleasant role of a first practical case and, in this respect, the commission has only reached halfway, relying solely on the free movement directive. the commission has circumvented the non-discrimination on the basis of article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights; the european union will no longer have to be so lukewarm when it ratifies the european convention on human rights, and i am glad to see it committing itself to the end of the road. the added value of this report also lies in the fact that it emphasises the need to detect potential violations early by setting up an alert system providing for the suspension of measures suspected of such violations for the time of the accelerated examination of their compliance with fundamental rights. i also stress the need to create a system of prevention inspired, for example, by the mechanism of the universal periodic review within the united nations council. i would like to stress again the absolute need for internal and external coherence, as you said, mrs reding. as such, the signing of community readmission agreements is a real challenge. we are blindly endorsing these agreements, whereas the actual arrangements for their implementation are decided in joint committees, from which parliament is excluded.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur for his attention and his work, as well as all the fictitious rapporteurs who have contributed to the quality of this report. we consider this report to be important because it draws the consequences of one of the few positive aspects of the implementation of the lisbon treaty, if it is actually implemented. the effective implementation of fundamental rights in the european union is an important, even fundamental, issue for the future of the european union. but we must not just talk to ourselves. the treaty, the charter of fundamental rights and, soon, accession to the european convention on human rights, can provide us with new tools in this field and enable the european union and its members to take a new step. many say that human rights are among the essential values of the european union, but few have a truly universal and indivisible conception of them. indivisible, that is to say that all the human rights recognized in the charter, but also in the european convention, and in all the european and international conventions which follow from the universal declaration of human rights, have the same value whatever they may be. there is no primacy of civil and political rights over economic and social rights. the right to live with dignity is as important as religious freedom, for example. universal means that human rights are the same for all, regardless of nationality, regardless of legal status. we know that the right to education, the right to family life, for example, are also constantly being violated in almost all the member states. the situation with regard to the roma is unfortunately emblematic of this. so yes, the commission must decide to launch infringement procedures with the same severity as in economic matters. universal also means that human rights have the same value everywhere in the world, and therefore the european union must give the same importance to human rights in its foreign policy, in its partnership agreements, as it does to economic or diplomatic issues. this is not the case, for example, in tunisia, libya, colombia and i could name many others. so yes, there is a fundamental issue here, it is the credibility of the european union and the future of its foreign policy.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the two co-rapporteurs who, after difficult negotiations in the trilogue, have proposed a compromise agreement which, as the fictitious rapporteur for libe, for my group, i naturally invite you to adopt. secondly, while i regret, as some have said today, that certain points such as the translation of documents for victims, for example, could not be included in the text of the agreement itself, or that the elements of simplification were not sufficiently explicit - and i am counting on the 'victims package' to refine them - i would like to stress that, in the end, all this sounds, today, as a matter of course, as a logical continuation of the ever more advanced construction of a european area of freedom and justice and, in essence, the establishment of a corresponding legal order. this shows a certain amount of political audacity and the will of the vast majority of us to go beyond political positions in order to have a clear tool for criminal cooperation which represents, as mrs reding has just said, a genuine policy of rights in europe, that is to say, a concrete policy for people, especially for women whose physical integrity may be threatened, a policy which corresponds to freedom of movement which has existed for a long time, and therefore a policy of rights.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all express my regret that the council has not been present since yesterday, when it has been quite present in the negotiations on all the subjects of interest to us since yesterday, the libe subjects. we regret that the council is not here to listen to parliament's voice, and that is a pity! i would like to congratulate the two co-rapporteurs - who have done a tremendous job on this text - for this notorious breakthrough for victims of all kinds: victims of domestic violence - you know that 45% of european women are victims of domestic violence and a few men too, because we must not forget the men who are also victims of violence by women - and then the victims of terrorism, the children, too, who are particularly vulnerable victims, of course. the text before us today is extremely important and i congratulate you once again. we look forward to the 'victims package' which you will present to us next year and which will complement the text we will vote on tomorrow.
madam president, we can only approve the draft directive by the two rapporteurs, which must be extended to all the member states in order to provide a strong and robust jurisdiction to prosecute and severely punish the perpetrators of this crime of trafficking in human beings, and also to protect, help and rehabilitate the victims, who are mainly women and children. however, for greater efficiency and credibility in this fight, europe, as the heir to the history of european states, should recognize the slave trade and slavery as a crime against humanity, as some member states have done, and i want to mention france in particular.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am still rather surprised ... (brouhaha) we have been negotiating this text for a year now. on the one hand, i should like to say that we have reached an agreement with the liberal group and i find out at the last minute that there is a voting directive which is totally against the agreements we have reached. i find that the agreements we had with the liberal group have not been kept. we went to the plenary with agreements that were not kept. secondly, mr cercas proposes that we refer back - i would like to speak, otherwise it is useless - the socialist group, and mr cercas in particular, propose that the commission refer back its proposal. but, mr. cercas, we've been discussing this for a year. you suggest a number of things. we haven't been able to get along for a year. so what's the point of starting over? we can debate this for ten years, alejandro, and you'll never agree. we've used up all the strings and you've never found common ground with anyone. so i don't see how continuing to make proposals will get us anywhere. it's a real shame. you opposed the entry of migrants into the european union. the socialist group rejects equal treatment for these migrants with european workers. (whistles) that is all i can see and it is a pity because the group agreed to this equal treatment and i regret it. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. on the basis of the report by my german colleague, reimer böge, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 67 million to provide assistance to madeira (portugal), which was affected by landslides and floods, and to france, which was affected by floods following the storm xynthia in february 2010. i note that the amount represents 2.7% of the total direct damage estimated at eur 2.5 billion. naturally, this is a significant amount of funding, but i cannot help but wonder whether, in view of the relatively small amount (2.7% of the total damage), the european union should not, with this fund, finance a european civil protection force that could immediately act in support of affected citizens to deal with situations of extreme brutality that exceed national intervention capacities. this force would not cost very much money, as it would initially involve the coordination of existing national civil protection forces. it could also be used for operations abroad (such as haiti).
in writing. ten months after the passing of the storm xynthia on the french coast, which had left 53 dead, almost 80 injured and significant material damage, parliament adopted a budgetary amendment to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for an amount of €35.6 million. but beyond reconstruction, how many more tragedies will it take before we finally have a community approach to natural disaster prevention? natural and man-made disasters are becoming more frequent, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that national measures are more effective and better coordinated and that european measures are more flexible. i would also like to remind you that since 2006 there has been a report by michel barnier on the table in favour of the establishment of a rapid reaction force for natural disasters: what are we waiting for to adopt it?
in writing. i voted today in favour of this report which allows the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the damage caused by the major floods in portugal and by the storm xynthia in 2010. this is a testament to the strong ties between the eu member states and underlines the importance of helping regions hit by natural disasters. i welcome the release of more than eur 35 million from the solidarity fund to repair the considerable damage caused by xynthia in certain coastal areas, mainly in charente-maritime, the vendée and the côtes-d'armor.
in writing. in my view, the european union solidarity fund, like the globalisation adjustment fund, is one of the budgetary tools that most concretely embodies the value of 'solidarity' that we, the socialist meps, strive to promote in the formulation of community policies. on 27 and 28 february 2010, the storm xynthia caused the death of 53 people and injured nearly 80 in the vendée and charente-maritime. a real regional and national trauma, its psychological and economic impacts are still felt 10 months later. as early as its march 2010 plenary session, parliament had been mobilized and called, by a very large majority vote, for the use of the fund to help victims. today's vote, which releases 35.6 million for these departments and 31.2 million for portugal, which was hit by floods in madeira as a result of the storm, reflects this common desire to show genuine solidarity between european citizens. this is the europe we want to develop, a europe close to the citizens, listening to their problems and able to respond to them collectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european solidarity fund to help the regions affected by floods in portugal and the french regions affected by the storm xynthia in february 2010. the atlantic coastal areas were the most affected, with the storm flooding large areas, including residential areas, causing severe human and material damage. the vote today responds to the request of the french authorities, in particular, for these regions to receive european financial aid in the event of an 'extraordinary disaster, mainly natural, affecting the majority of its population and having serious and lasting repercussions on these living conditions and economic stability'. of the estimated eur 1 425.43 million in direct damage caused by the disaster, eur 35 635 750 will be paid to france. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund brings to fruition a europe close to the citizens, as they want it. the european institutions still have to work on faster operation and procedures, which are justified by the urgency and scale of the natural phenomena.
in writing. the eu's assistance to portugal and france following the weather events in february 2010 is good news. it is regrettable, however, that the eu's readiness to bail out banks is not matched by its readiness to help citizens devastated by the consequences of climate change.
in writing. the adoption today in plenary of a budgetary amendment to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to the tune of eur 35.6 million on a proposal from the commission is good news. this was in response to a request from the french government following the passage of the storm xynthia on the french coast on 27 and 28 february 2010, which left 53 dead and nearly 80 injured in vendée and charente-maritime. the procedure is certainly long and should be improved, but i welcome the fact that european solidarity is being shown in the face of the tragedy experienced by the victims. i had written to commissioner hahn to support the request for support from the french government, and he has not failed to deliver on the commitment he gave me when he came to la rochelle at the beginning of march. this fund is not just a necessary financial contribution, it is a symbol of the common values of our continent.
in writing. we all remember the violence of hurricane xynthia, which struck the vendée coast almost a year ago. since then, where the water had destroyed everything, it is necessary to rebuild. the european union solidarity fund is the ideal instrument to support local efforts. by voting for this text, i helped to release eur 35 635 750, not to compensate for the damage suffered by private individuals, but to ensure the repair of infrastructure. the solidarity fund was set up following the 2002 floods in germany, austria, the czech republic and france to provide assistance to european regions affected by unforeseeable disasters. the text also allocates an equivalent amount to the regions affected by the recent floods in portugal.
in writing. as we are faced with natural disasters in europe on an increasingly regular basis, the european union must be able to provide substantial assistance to its member states when one of them is affected by a disaster of this type. so, after the storm xynthia last march which hit the coastal areas of charente-maritime and the vendée and the floods which hit the island of madeira in portugal last february, it was only natural that i should approve the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund to repair the damage caused by these disasters. i think this vote is an example of the solidarity which exists between the peoples of europe, and which should exist in many other areas.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my distinguished italian colleague barbara matera, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the tune of eur 2.2 million to help slovenia, which is facing redundancies in the textile sector. this is the only mura european fashion design company to have terminated 2 554 employment contracts. i find it curious that of the total of 2 554 redundancies, 583 workers (22.8%) had a long-term health problem or a disability. i am not sure that they fit the logic of the egf. it should be noted that of these 2554 redundancies, 1114 persons had completed their primary education. it is right to question the level of education of those recruited and the suitability of staff for today's industrial constraints. i question the independence of the officials of the ministry of labour, family and social affairs of slovenia who are to assume the role of certifying authority for the control of these expenditures.
in writing. like her proposals at the last plenary session, mrs matera's resolutions for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in six specific cases are fully justified. the fund will help employees affected by the adverse effects of globalisation in slovenia, germany, poland and spain. i have always considered that the use of this fund was effective, because it is practical and meets specific needs, which can be clearly identified. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i could only vote in favour of the adoption of these resolutions.
in writing. i am thinking of the slovenian workers of the mura group, sacrificed on the altar of globalisation, and i am abstaining. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neo-liberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. it endorses the logic that leads the investment funds owned by the group and the banks investing in them to make profits on their backs.
in writing. i am thinking of the german workers of the heidelberger druckmaschinen group, sacrificed on the altar of globalisation, and i am abstaining. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neo-liberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. it supports the logic that leads this world leader in the construction of printing machines to relocate to increase its profits.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my italian colleague barbara matera, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the tune of eur 0.6 million to help poland, which is facing redundancies in the automotive sector. the number of redundancies was 590 in two companies in the automotive industry. i support the fact that this intervention is managed and controlled by the bodies that manage the european social fund (esf) in poland, which limits the control costs to only eur 2000. like the rapporteur, i congratulate the commission on the fact that, in the context of mobilising the fund, it has proposed an alternative source of payment appropriations to the unused esf funds. however, i regret that, in order to mobilise the egf for this dossier, payment appropriations are being diverted from a budget line for supporting smes and innovation, and the commission's shortcomings in implementing competitiveness and innovation programmes are to be deplored, particularly during an economic crisis which is expected to significantly increase support needs.
in writing. i am thinking of the polish car workers who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. he endorses the logic that leads groups like sews or leoni atokabel to relocate shamelessly to increase their profits.
in writing. i am thinking of the spanish workers of groups like levantina, sacrificed on the altar of globalisation, and i am abstaining. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neo-liberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. it supports the logic which has enabled the charterhouse and impala funds to enrich their capital at the expense of the workers of levantina in the valencian community.
in writing. i am thinking of the spanish workers at lear automotive, sacrificed on the altar of globalisation, and i am abstaining. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neo-liberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. he endorses the logic that leads this us multinational and its main shareholders, pezna investment management and the california teachers' pension fund, to relocate without regard for those who enriched them.
in writing. i am thinking of the polish car workers who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neo-liberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. he endorses the logic that leads to the privatisation of state-owned enterprises such as ciegielski-poznan.
in writing. after a failed first attempt, it was time for beneficiaries of international protection to finally enjoy equal treatment with other third-country nationals who are long-term residents. there was nothing in their case to justify such a difference in treatment and such uncertainty as to their situation within the union. i therefore supported the report by claude moraes, which in particular made it possible to further strengthen the safeguards against refoulement and to arrive, despite the reservations, at a favourable calculation of the five years of residence. it is also a welcome development: it is the only text of the 'asylum package' to be finally adopted under the belgian presidency of the council of the european union, despite the commitments made at the beginning of the mandate. we must therefore continue to work to ensure that the common european asylum system, based, among other things, on common reception procedures and conditions, finally becomes a reality in the union. the challenges are clear: only the improvement and harmonisation of the national asylum systems, which are currently so divergent, will lead to a common system.
in writing. two agreements of major importance for relations between the european union and georgia have just been adopted, one on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation and the other on the visa facilitation agreement. these agreements are a first step in the process of deepening relations between the european union and georgia. the eu thus wishes to encourage georgia to implement the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice. these agreements are also of interest at regional level. they will contribute to the union's efforts to strengthen cooperation with other countries in the south caucasus region, such as armenia and azerbaijan.
in writing. in view of the multiplicity and gravity of disasters in the world, and their increase mainly due to climate change, i voted in favour of the very good report by my excellent italian colleague iva zanicchi containing a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the creation of a rapid response capacity. the time has come to improve the eu's disaster response in terms of efficiency, coordination and visibility. the creation of a european rapid reaction capability, or european civil protection force, as proposed by michel barnier, is becoming increasingly urgent. it is clear that the coordination of national civil protection forces is useful in supporting a member state which could not, on its own, cope with a large-scale disaster (fire, flood, natural or other disaster, etc.). this european civil protection force would also be very useful in responding to external situations such as haiti. as we celebrate the european year of volunteering in 2011, such an action could become a cause of european interest and could contribute to the consolidation of european citizenship.
in writing. whether in haiti during the earthquake in january, or in pakistan with the floods this summer, during disasters, europe does a lot but in a dispersed order. each member state sends its own personnel, its own sniffer dogs, its own aircraft, etc. however, the sum of individual responses organised in an emergency will never be equivalent to a planned and organised european response. the european union, together with the 27 member states, is the world's largest donor of humanitarian and development aid. we have a wide range of civilian and military instruments to meet emergency and reconstruction needs. but as long as national reflexes persist, we will unfortunately not be able to derive any practical benefit from this virtual status of collective strength. what we need is a real 'rapid response capacity'. and improving efficiency and speed in emergencies requires strong political will on the part of the various parties involved.
in writing. work is continuing on financial regulation. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by the european parliament which aims to subject all financial products to the control of the market authorities. the lack of transparency undermines the efficiency of markets and has contributed to the deepening of the financial crisis. the 'market in financial instruments' directive facilitated the transfer of market activities to more regulated and transparent trading spaces. in line with the conclusions of the g20 in pittsburgh on 20 september 2009, the objective of this report is to ensure that 'all standardised otc derivative contracts are traded on exchanges or via electronic trading platforms'.
in writing. it is clear that there is a need to guard against the misuse of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear products, materials and organisms. but it is mainly the everyday use of these that must be guarded against. the text never expresses a view on the necessary abandonment of nuclear power. this is a serious threat to our fellow citizens at the moment. as for the terrorism at the heart of this report, why call on the largest threat to peace in the world, nato, to deal with it? so many inconsistencies that i cannot vote for this text.
in writing. regional policy is one of the most important policies of the union for me. the funds it distributes throughout europe contribute to cohesion between the different regions and promote their competitiveness. however, there are areas where improvements can be made, particularly in the area of multilevel governance, i.e. coordinated action by the union, the member states, regional and local authorities. regional policy suffers from the complexity of its procedures, which often discourage local actors from using it. however, these do not prevent a still too high level of irregularities. i voted in favour of this initiative by the european parliament which stresses the essential role of local authorities in the implementation of regional policy, but at the same time calls for improved multi-level governance. it also called for better monitoring by the commission, both in supporting regional actors and in monitoring the proper use of funds.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my romanian colleague ramona nicole mănescu on good governance in the field of eu regional policy, in particular as regards the procedures for assistance and control by the commission. i welcome the request for simplification, as this is the condition for a better understanding and use of european funds by local officials. like the vast majority of my colleagues, i am in favour of a strong cohesion policy with financial resources remaining after 2013 while rejecting any attempt at renationalisation. i would add, in my own personal capacity, that the best way to prevent cohesion policy from being renationalised is to make it european. i regret that too often the funds from cohesion policy are used for projects of a regional, sometimes national and rarely european dimension.
in writing. the report by mrs mănescu aims to bring the european union closer to its citizens: it calls for better commission control over the inclusion of local authorities in the development of cohesion policy. this document is part of a plan to simplify very complex administrative procedures in favour of the development of our regions and of increased collaboration between local authorities in the various member states. its adoption by a large majority confirms the importance attached to improving the use of european funds.
in writing. this text is a testament to the establishment of the european macroregions. in order to better impose these competitiveness poles in the interests of the sacred single market, this house proposes that they be headed by the european commission to the detriment of elected governments. the eu's regional policy should focus on reducing the inequalities in income and living conditions of the citizens who inhabit europe's regions. we're not even close.
in writing. council regulation (ec) no 377/2004 of 19 february 2004 established a network of immigration liaison officers. these officers are representatives of the member states seconded to a third country and are responsible for facilitating the european union's (eu) action in the fight against illegal immigration, in particular by collecting information for the european agency frontex. but coordination in this young policy can be improved. meetings between those liaison officers, commission representatives and the frontex agency should be possible. in addition, better cooperation with other bodies such as the european asylum support office and the united nations high commissioner for refugees should be encouraged. it has therefore become necessary to amend regulation (ec) no 377/2004. i have supported this text which, while recalling the requirements that fundamental rights impose on this policy, provides the management of the union's external borders with the means to carry out effective controls.
in writing. as a fictitious rapporteur on this dossier, i supported the report by mr diaz de mera, which went beyond the technical amendments proposed by the commission, in particular by better understanding the complexity and opacity of the work of the immigration liaison officers (oli). in a context of mixed migration flows, it is essential to include in their activities a more human rights-sensitive and respectful approach. the tasks carried out by the oils must also be made more transparent and subject to greater democratic supervision; this is done by strengthening the exchange of information between the european parliament and organisations such as the united nations refugee agency (unhcr) and the european asylum support office (easo). in view of the council's objections, the compromise finally reached to settle the terminological controversy (illegal immigration versus irregular immigration) seems satisfactory, but it can only be a first step; the european institutions will have to make their commitment a reality.
in writing. the exchange of best practice between police services in different countries is sometimes necessary and its objectives are praiseworthy. it should be remembered, however, that international police cooperation already existed in the 19th century, long before the construction of europe. this report proposes that we, in the framework of frontex (the european external borders agency of the member states), improve the exchange of information on illegal migration flows, illegal immigration and the return of irregularly staying persons, including the establishment of networks of immigration liaison officers. this new initiative, which is desired by the majority of europe's citizens, could be welcomed if the objectives were really to curb immigration dramatically. the reality is quite different, and the fruit of the work of this agency, as well as the measures taken at the level of the governments of the nations, is a failure. france and europe are overwhelmed by immigration. according to an "official" figure from the european union, nearly 900 000 illegal immigrants enter europe each year. while illegal immigrants are not sent back to their country of origin, nor even criminal aliens, one is entitled to wonder how these various measures could reverse migration flows without real political courage following the facts.
in writing. we were due to vote on wednesday on my colleague véronique mathieu's draft directive to create a 'single permit' for residence and work for migrant workers. i voted for this text. unfortunately, he was not adopted. this text allowed the alignment of the arrangements applicable to foreign workers and thus fought against social dumping. by better regulating legal immigration, it enabled the union to combat undeclared work and illegal channels. the socialists opposed this directive on the grounds that it excluded certain categories from its scope. the liberal group, on the other hand, took a very unpredictable stance and rejected the text. having seen one of their positions on an amendment rejected, they voted against the whole text without giving any advance notice of the importance they attached to this point. that's how you waste a year's worth of work.
in writing. let us remember that the european parliament is not subject to the council! now even on immigration, member states must take meps seriously! co-decision is a reality! the proposal for a directive on the single permit for third country nationals was rejected in plenary - a strong gesture by parliament because the issue was crucial! the creation of a single permit for third-country nationals wishing to reside and work in a member state has been discussed for years! it was a laudable initiative at the outset but today's epp amendments deny the very essence of a single permit - they are also against equal treatment for all and create different categories of workers, which is simply unacceptable! we cannot compromise on equal treatment! in response to these epp amendments, we therefore voted by a majority against the final proposal: by 350 votes to 306, the proposal is rejected and must be referred back to the european commission. we must do better: yes to a responsible common immigration policy but no to a policy which is restrictive and discriminatory!
in writing. the creation of a single permit for third-country nationals wishing to reside and work in a member state has been discussed for years. this is a commendable initiative whose initial objective is to simplify the administrative requirements for third country nationals by allowing them to obtain a work and a residence permit in a single procedure at a 'one-stop shop'. the original legislative proposal provided that third-country workers should enjoy the same treatment as nationals in terms of employment-related rights (such as access to social security, education and training). but according to the text as amended by its rapporteur, member states would have been allowed to restrict some of these rights. this is contrary to equal treatment and is unacceptable. we therefore voted in the majority against the final proposal, which was rejected. the construction of a humane and reasonable immigration policy is a key societal challenge for the coming years, but it can only be met at european level to avoid electoral motives and national reflexes.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when europe has almost 25 million officially unemployed, a directive to facilitate labour immigration is being put back on the table! there's something indecent about that! the text also proposed to guarantee certain economic and social rights to these immigrant workers, allegedly to avoid social dumping or unfair competition with native workers or those already present in europe. a hollow admission that immigration is weighing down on european wages and does not offset any shortages of labour, but on the contrary competes directly with our workers. some amendments, which seek to strengthen equality of rights - and costs - between residents and immigrants, actually only proposed to allow access to our social benefits for all kinds of immigrants, whether working or not. a choice between social dumping and automatic social assistance which is no longer politically or financially sustainable. it is time to decide, at the level of our states, to reverse the migratory flows which have become an unbearable economic, social and even cultural burden and to practice national and community preference in all areas.
in writing. this report and the proposal for a directive it amends are a disgrace! they introduced the introduction of a selective immigration system based on the needs of the markets. they strip all immigrants of their rights if they can't serve those markets or no longer serve them. and even when they grant limited rights to those who work, they give the possibility of restricting them further down the line. immigrants are not second-class human beings! this directive is simply inhuman. i vote against and denounce it.
in writing. victims of violence can benefit from protection measures against their aggressor in their respective member states. however, this protection stops at the borders of their state and there has been no way to extend this protection beyond the borders. i voted in favour of this new directive, which allows the judicial authorities of a member state which has put in place protection measures under its national law to issue a 'european protection decision', which protects victims in the territory of the other member states of the union. the directive is of course primarily aimed at women who are victims of violence, but it could also concern anyone, regardless of gender or age, potential victims and their families.
in writing. the european protection order is the realisation of the priority given by the spanish presidency to combat violence against women. victims who benefit from a measure to remove an aggressor will be able to be protected across national borders, thus allowing them to start a new life wherever they want. the european protection order issued shall have the same legal force throughout the union. the scope of the text has been extended to include the protection of life, physical or psychological integrity, and dignity, personal freedom and sexual integrity. this broad definition allows the notions of forced marriage, paedophilia, human trafficking, sexual mutilation, etc. to be included. this measure meets the primary objective of the area of freedom, security and justice, namely to build a protective europe. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. human trafficking is an abomination which the european union cannot unfortunately ignore. whatever the reasons, sexual or labour exploitation, it is inadmissible by the union authorities. this is why europe has for some time now been equipping itself with a wide range of legislation to combat this phenomenon. this new directive, which i voted for, replaces the old framework decision, by virtue of the new powers in this area. by bringing together the community acquis in this field and concentrating it in a single text, this directive is to become a major instrument in the fight against trafficking in human beings. it lays down the principles on which the legislation of the member states must be based, provides for the applicable sanctions, establishes the liability of legal persons, protects victims from any prosecution which their status might have occasioned, sets up measures to assist and protect victims and contains certain specific provisions for women and children.
in writing. human trafficking affects several hundred people every day in europe. mostly women and little girls. it was therefore urgent to fill the legal vacuum in some european countries, such as spain, where the largest brothel has just opened a few kilometres from the french border. the european union has therefore finally acquired an instrument to create a deterrent environment for traffickers and to provide assistance and protection for victims of trafficking. common rules now define the offences and penalties applicable to traffickers. this is a further step towards protecting human dignity and reducing the commodification of human beings.
in writing. we adopted a report last week on the proposal for a directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims, and i welcome this vote. first, the definition of 'trafficking in human beings' will now be understood much more broadly, including trafficking in the sex industry, exploitation at work, especially in agriculture or domestic services, exploitation for begging purposes... secondly, our text sets out sanctions, minimum sentences for traffickers. thirdly, our text provides for a whole range of measures to help and assist the victims, not to mention the hundreds of thousands of people in the european union every year. time has shown that the existing framework is not sufficiently effective. the text we adopted last week shows a willingness to step up our action to protect citizens and prosecute traffickers throughout europe.
in writing. human trafficking is a form of modern slavery. it is also a highly lucrative business for criminal organisations, which can take many forms, including sexual exploitation, forced labour, human organ trafficking, begging, illegal adoption and domestic work. this is the first binding european legislation on the subject. the text strengthens the protection of victims and sanctions against perpetrators. the gender approach underpinning the text is welcome, as it is often women who are victims of human trafficking. it should also be noted that victims will not be prosecuted for crimes committed as a result of trafficking, such as cases of violation of immigration laws. i have supported this text.
in writing. facilitating the issuing of visas for georgian citizens and approving an agreement on the readmission of irregular immigrants: both issues were voted on in the european parliament's plenary session on tuesday 14 december. my colleague n. griesbeck was the rapporteur on these two agreements on the movement of persons between the union and georgia. the objectives of this agreement with georgia are to reduce the time taken to obtain a visa, simplify the documents required and even exempt certain categories of persons such as students, journalists and pensioners from the visa requirement. in parallel, we also voted in favour of the readmission agreement, which provides that the eu and georgia mutually undertake to readmit their nationals who are staying illegally. these two agreements mark the willingness of the eu and georgia to cooperate in the fields of freedom, justice and security.
in writing. i voted in favour of the very good own-initiative report by my excellent romanian colleague, petru constantin luhan, on the achievement of territorial, social and economic cohesion in the european union. i fully agree with the statement in the report that achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion is a necessary but not sufficient condition for ensuring global economic competitiveness, which requires significant investment in key areas such as energy, the environment, infrastructure, education, research and development, creative industries and services, logistics and transport. this is the sum of the grand investment plan of one trillion euros which i have been calling for since the beginning of this mandate and which is the necessary condition for the development, through competitiveness, of our continent and for equal opportunities for european citizens wherever they are in the territory of the union.
in writing. while territorial disparities between the different regions of the european union are tending to widen, one of the best tools for meeting the ambitious objectives of the 2020 strategy is a smarter european cohesion policy, with a strong focus on innovation, research and development, taking into account regional specificities. the report by mr luhan goes in this direction and establishes european cohesion policy as one of the key elements of the economic vitality of our regions. it brings us closer to a more 'sustainable' european economy.
in writing. this report is concerned primarily with regional competitiveness, european competition and high productivity. it is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy. the only relevant reference in the report, namely 'quality public services for all citizens, wherever they live and work', is therefore rendered meaningless. i am voting against this text.
president of the commission. − the situation in gaza is not tenable. economic recovery is crucially needed but, unfortunately, we have not seen the fundamental change of policy in gaza that the european union has asked for over the last months. that is why, last monday, the european union agreed on a three-pronged approach to support exports from gaza, following a request from prime minister fayyad. i recently received prime minister fayyad and we spoke about this. gaza should be viewed as a very important component of palestinian state-building.
president of the commission. − eurobonds are an interesting idea. in fact, the commission considered them already in 2008, in our document ‘emu@10’ – the emu’s 10th anniversary. however, in the meantime, with a view to addressing this crisis, we have created the efsf and the esfs. these instruments are far from exhaustive. if need be, they can be improved and adapted much more quickly than any alternatives, interesting as they may be. at present i think we must ask ourselves a simple question: is the crisis best addressed with instruments that are consensual, or by opening yet another discussion on which there is no consensus? as your question suggests, there is indeed no consensus on the proposals made recently by prime minister juncker. i think the answer today is obvious. we should concentrate on what can build consensus in the euro area, because not having this consensus will be detrimental for the markets’ perception of the euro area. let us not kill the very interesting idea of eurobonds for the future, but let us concentrate, at this stage, on what we can do quickly and decisively.
president of the commission. − i am going to give a very candid answer. i do not believe at this stage that there is the slightest possibility of getting an agreement on eurobonds. there is reluctance on the part of several member states regarding that proposal. that is why i think we should work to reach the largest possible consensus with the current instruments. i have said to you very frankly – and particularly to martin schulz – that i found the idea interesting and attractive. in fact, the commission has made several proposals before – in the time of one of my illustrious predecessors – but at this stage the conditions are not right for getting an agreement.
president of the commission. − in answer to your comment, mr verhofstadt, let me tell you first of all that the commission has already used its right of initiative. you will remember that, when we launched this mechanism, olli rehn and i introduced the possibility of collective guarantees, which was more or less going in the direction of eurobonds. it was flatly rejected by the member states. we could now put forward new proposals, but at this time i do not think that it is responsible to put forward formal proposals again when we are in such a sensitive situation. it will only divide the euro area and the european union. but the commission has already made proposals. they were on the table and were rejected. that is the reality. regarding the financial perspectives, i have already made a commitment to putting forward the proposal for a specific kind of eurobond – euro project eurobonds – and, even though i have already heard some negative comments from some capitals, i am still hopeful that this will come into being. regarding your question, i think we have to ask more of the member states. as you know, with the exception of four or five member states, they are not ready to give their declaration of assurance. it is true what our director-general said – as you mentioned – that sometimes the commission does not have all the necessary instruments to engage with the member states as early as possible with regard to the way in which european union funding is spent at national level.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr barroso, you told me a year ago that during your first term of office, gmos had polluted your mandate and that you wanted to refer this matter back to the states. a few days ago, 1 200 000 signatures of european citizens were collected to request an independent expert opinion on gmos. the council of environment and agriculture has just a few days ago rejected commissioner dalli's proposal by a very large majority. the legal advisers of the council and parliament also gave negative opinions. finally, you have seen the scandal within efsa with the banati case and the problems raised by the panel. efsa itself has decided to give new evaluation guidelines. so what i want to know is, are you prepared to suspend any new authorization or renewal as for mon810, until the new rules put in place by efsa come into force? we need new assessments, new authorizations, to be done according to new rules. one last question: are you ready to start a new discussion to make sure that we have an independent evaluation?
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, as regards the initiative, you know that this new regime has not yet entered into force. but of course we follow with great interest all citizens' initiatives on this issue. in fact, the commissioner responsible has met the promoters of this initiative, even though it has not yet been formally approved. as far as the present issue is concerned, we will continue to apply the legislation in its present form. we have no better alternative to efsa. this independent agency was set up to give advice. and the opinions of this agency, which is an independent agency and which gathers expertise in this field, we must, of course, respect them. so we will continue to respect community law in this area. the commission cannot decide to suspend the application of community law. i have already told you quite frankly that i am not satisfied with the gmo regime in europe. i am not satisfied because i think it is not clear enough. but it's the diet i'm supposed to follow.
for the greens/efa group thank you for your reply, however, new, much stricter guidelines have already been put in place by efsa. are you prepared to say that all the new authorizations that have been granted recently and the issue of mon810 should be reviewed in the light of these new guidelines? the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. and that is why i am asking you very clearly, and i am asking you to put this whole debate, which is normally due to take place in 2012, on the back burner. the updating of directive 2001/18 is due to take place in 2012. we need to move this process forward.
mr president, in the exceptional constraints of this year, the agreement reached on the draft budget for 2011 is the best compromise possible. we must thank and congratulate our two rapporteurs, the european commission and the outstanding belgian presidency, to whom i express my particular gratitude. mr wathelet is a little sad, he feels that it is too little, he must see the gesture of parliament returning 570 million euros to the member states, for not allocating them to iter, as a thank you to the belgian presidency. from the beginning of these negotiations, parliament has shown its sense of responsibility. the committee on budgets strongly recommends that the uncertainty over the 2011 budget should not be prolonged at the end of the year, when the union's cohesion is once again in doubt. but the underlying problems remain. unlike some national budgets, the union's budget is not in danger of financial bankruptcy; it is in balance in terms of its statute, but it is on the verge of political bankruptcy. europe is financing its ambitions by paying for words. but verbal inflation, the inflation of grandiose and illusory goals, is as pernicious as monetary inflation. the union no longer has the means to finance the decisions it has already taken, nor the new powers granted to it by the treaty of lisbon. the union has also not put in place the procedures to ensure that, in the absence of community funding, major common objectives such as europe 2020 are taken into account in national budgets. that is why parliament attaches such importance to the agreement reached with the commission and the future presidencies to find a way of securing the financing of future policies from the community budget, from new resources which no longer weigh on national budgets and from national budgets themselves, which are twenty times larger than the small european budget. 2010 saw the union redefine its financial solidarity, 2011 must be the year in which we reinvent fiscal solidarity.
mr president, the 2011 budget, as it emerges from the numerous conciliations between our committee on budgets, the council and the commission, does not correspond to the new institutional balances of the lisbon treaty. these balances have not been respected by the council and in particular by the representatives of certain governments. in particular, it is unacceptable that parliament's request for consultation on the future own resources of the union has not been met. our parliament now has a codecision power in budgetary matters. it must be respected and we must see the obvious. until this co-decision power has been translated into a negative vote, it will probably not be possible to reach truly balanced conciliations. the european parliament will have to choose one day or another to firmly assert its institutional status. this question of own resources will be re-evaluated in the coming months. if we are to succeed, we must be able to carry out our responsibilities to the end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join in the thanks and congratulations to those who have managed to conclude these very difficult negotiations. we are preparing to vote tomorrow on a budget which is a great step forward for the europe of mobility and the europe of young people. this budget shows above all the determination of parliament not to abandon european-wide investments in this period of crisis. i would like to express my concern and indignation at the choice made by certain political groups, particularly the socialists, whose representatives were in government positions at key moments, to undermine the iter project, the only long-term basic research project in the european union in which we play a leading role. as you know, the european union committed an additional contribution of 1.3 billion euros last june for this project, which is crucial for our security. so it is europe's voice in the world that will be called into question by our vote. this attitude leads us to lose almost 600 million euros not used in 2010 and which could have been allocated to iter, it is grotesque!
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, we are now in the third act of the financial legislation for 2010. after the supervision, after the directive on alternative fund managers, we are now dealing once again with the rating agencies. once again, because europe has not been late in bringing in a regulation in this area which was designed in 2009 and which is now coming into effect. credit rating agencies generally issue opinions on the creditworthiness of companies, governments and complex financial products in the form of literal ratings. the rating reflects the assessment of the risk that issuers of financial instruments may not be able to meet their debts. these agencies have gradually become a major force in the financial world for a number of reasons. first, the notes are taken into account in the banking regulations for the determination of the amount of capital to be set aside for investments. secondly, because the rating contributes to the success of the issues since these ratings have become a major indicator for investors. the credit rating agencies, though not the main cause, played a harmful role in the recent financial crisis. indeed, they underestimated the probability of default of the issuers of certain complex financial instruments. in 2009, the european commission proposed a framework for the supervision and regulation of credit rating agencies in order to restore confidence in the markets and to strengthen investor protection. in the same year, regulation 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies was adopted. in the debate in the european parliament before the adoption of this regulation, the rapporteur had stressed the need for integrated supervision of credit rating agencies and common control of their products at eu level. at that time, such european supervision was not legally possible. however, the commission had undertaken to make a legislative proposal to that effect and you, commissioner, have kept that promise. the agreement between the council and the european parliament on the architecture of european supervision, which will enter into force on 1 january 2011, has now made it possible to effectively implement such european supervision of credit rating agencies. the regulation establishing the european securities and markets authority expressly provides that the authority shall exercise specific supervisory powers over credit rating agencies. that was the subject of the supplementary and amending regulation on which we reached agreement and which will be voted on tomorrow. i had wished, and my colleagues followed this request, that the other issues relating to rating agencies, sovereign debt allocation, remuneration scheme, competition, be deferred in a reflection which will take the form of an own-initiative report which will precede the legislative proposal that you will make in the first half of 2011 and for which you have launched a consultation. i believe that by this european supervision of credit rating agencies we are taking a big step in the same direction as the supervision that has been put in place. i should like to thank the belgian presidency for its tireless efforts on the financial issues, the commissioner, you and your teams and, of course, my colleagues in the european parliament who have taken part in this debate and have supported our positions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, after what you have heard, you can draw two conclusions. the first is that parliament will give its massive support to this text tomorrow, which will show once again that parliament, by its large majority, appreciates the regulatory and supervisory action undertaken by the commission and to which the belgian presidency has given its strong support. the second conclusion is that i am not drawing a conclusion today, but that a new debate will be opened, starting with the consultation of the wolf klinz own-initiative report, to examine all these difficult questions. so, we must not hide it, in 2009, when we made the first regulation, these questions were already asked. and the reason we haven't addressed these questions is because we haven't found a relevant answer. so i hope that, thanks to the reflection that has begun with the presentation of the wolf klinz report, the discussion that will begin around the consultation will make it possible to provide answers this time to complete the regulation of rating agencies. but if you will allow me, i will end by quoting the chairman of the financial markets authority who says that, all the same, the right thing would be for the financial markets to detoxify themselves from the rating agencies to allow investors a greater personal appreciation of situations and risks. i think that would also be a guarantee.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be here in the european parliament again today, after the debate we had before cancún and now after the outcome of the climate conference. i am also pleased to see here some familiar faces who were also present as delegation in cancún and who, on behalf of the european parliament, made a very useful and active contribution to the success of the conference. i think that this is something that should be emphasized and underlined. the cancún climate conference has finally turned out to be a success. until the last day, we were waiting for a result, but in the end the result was positive. this was necessary both for climate policy and to save the multilateral process. we have reached a decision at the climate conference, a decision which actually consists of two parts, a first part which you could consider as a set of concrete measures that can be implemented very quickly, and a second part which lays down a set of foundations for reaching a global agreement in the long term for the period after 2012. this is of course in the context of the two degrees celsius target which is also included in the outcome of the climate conference as a starting point. when i speak of immediate implementation or of a number of actions which can be put into effect immediately, i am talking about adaptation, technology, the fight against deforestation and financing. and i might mention a few things very briefly. first and foremost, the adaptation. a framework has been adopted and a committee is also being set up. this will help to provide support to the most vulnerable areas. second, the technology. support will be provided for both mitigation and adaptation. two new structures are being set up. the executive technology committee and the climate technology centre and network. the aim is to promote knowledge through research, dissemination and transfer of technology. thirdly, the fight against deforestation. national strategies and action plans of developing countries will form the basis for financing actions to combat deforestation. finally , the green climate fund is to ensure that $100 billion is made available to developing countries by 2020. these are the concrete achievements of cancún. so if we look at the longer term and the foundations that have been laid, we will obviously have to continue working next year on the establishment of an international agreement after 2012. the mitigation measures of both developed and developing countries are now incorporated and anchored in the text, which is very important, as the results of copenhagen are now officially incorporated in it. it also provides for greater transparency. the longer-term legal form beyond 2012 is to be defined next year. that's going to be a whole discussion; we are moving towards a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol and what are the greenland and the united states doing? so this is not the end, but the beginning, an important new step in the climate debate. i think that all of us together, the european parliament, the council and the commission, will have to continue to work hard to ensure that we get a next important step next year and hopefully also a binding international agreement. i would like to thank parliament again for the efforts it has made in cancún.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think it is fair to say that we in the european union went to cancún with the fear that we risked getting nothing. of course we also went there with the very strong desire to ensure that this would not be the case and that we actually got a substantial and balanced package. as you all know now, that is what we got. this means that the multilateral process is alive. more than that, it is relatively well and, as it could have been dead by now, that in itself is important. i think that all those who were there also felt relief when the final deal was done. it was as though the whole international community simply wanted this to happen and wanted to prove that of course we need multilateralism when we are fighting global challenges. i also think that it is important to say that what we achieved in cancún was not just about saving the process. it was more than that, which is of course the essential thing. we wanted to save the process. we wanted to save the prospect of having a global deal and we wanted to ensure that we also got something substantial done in cancún. we worked very hard, together with the mexican presidency. we worked very closely with them and gave them our full support from the very beginning. i must say that the mexicans fully deserve all the credit they have been given; they have done excellent work. a year ago, we took the first steps in copenhagen. i think that, if we had met two or three days after copenhagen was over, few of us would have thought that, one year later, all the elements of the copenhagen accord would be included in a binding un agreement. that is really good. but in cancún we also took new steps. we strengthened the international climate regime with new institutions and new funds. i would like to stress three things that were particularly important to the european union in the end game – which was very much friday, as some of those present will recall. we had three priorities which we wanted to be reflected in the result. we wanted recognition of the gap between the emission reduction pledges of the copenhagen accord now being anchored in the un text and the challenge of keeping global warming below 2°c. it was very important to state the obvious: that we are not there yet. we also very much wanted to have increased transparency – through measuring, reporting and verification (mrv), and international consultation and analysis (ica). thirdly, we wanted the possibility of a future legal framework for the period beyond 2012 to be reflected in the text. on all three points we made progress. for the first time, the 2°c objective is acknowledged in a un document, the pledges are anchored and the obvious has been stated, namely that countries need to do more for the world to stay below the 2°c rise. we also started a process to strengthen transparency and, as we said in cancún, it is not enough just to say that you are in favour of increased transparency. what does that mean? it is very important that the text now contains several pages spelling out exactly what the political guidance for mrv and ica would be. that is very important and i would like to add one further point. i think that it is not just of interest to the international climate negotiations that, for instance, a country like china has now accepted international consultation and analysis. i think that is also an important signal that reaches far beyond the climate negotiations. this was actually a very important and significant step forward. finally, we managed to keep open the discussion about the kyoto protocol and a future legal outcome. i think that, if we had not had the prospect of having a second commitment period, it is very likely that the process would have been dead by now. having said these positive things, i would like to echo what joke schauvliege has just said to the effect that this does not mean that we have a very easy year ahead of us. we have a long and challenging journey to make. we saw in cancún how slow the process is. when you take steps together in the un context it is slow by definition, so no one should believe that the road to south africa is going to be an easy one. the year ahead of us is a very challenging one. the only thing i would say at this stage is that europe will do whatever we can to continue to play this very constructive role and to try to build bridges between different points of view, while bearing our own priorities very much in mind. i think it is very important now that everybody goes back home and starts to do things in their own nation, in their own region and in their own municipality. all must now take action, as we are doing in europe. we have our 2020 target and we have also initiated the discussion about how we could eventually increase our ambitions in the short term. as you know, in the spring the commission will present a strategy for completing the transition to a low-carbon economy by 2050. that strategy will also include a 2030 objective. let me finish with a word about the european union in the climate change conference. i would like to highlight that we actually managed to speak with one voice. we were discussing earlier in this forum how important that is. the commission, the presidency and the 27 member states ensured that the european union played its part on the world stage. i am pleased to say that there was excellent cooperation between minister schauvliege and her team and my team from the commission. i would like to thank joke schauvliege very much for her contribution towards this result. last, but of course not least, i would very much like to thank the parliament delegation. i think that they contributed a great deal towards conveying the message that europe really was speaking with one voice. i would particularly like to thank the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, jo leinen. i think that it was crucial that, when members of the delegation were addressed and asked about the european position, they all tried to stick to the common denominator. i think that contributed a lot to the general impression that this time europe actually was speaking with one voice. thank you very much for that. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, i wanted to highlight, as did jo leinen, the remarkable work carried out by commissioner hedegaard and her team in cancún. today, in a way, the success of cancún forces us to get out of a strategy of saying: if others do not move, we do not move. the positive side of cancún is that now everyone must fuel the machinery of international negotiation and, in particular, by strengthening its national or regional objectives. europe must go to 30% now in terms of its greenhouse gas emissions reduction target. and then, 30% is to be part of the goal of a decarbonised economy by 2050, 20% does not allow us to make that transition. and finally, going to 30 percent is also, of course, linking up, now, with the emerging economies, brazil, china, south africa. we know that these countries are pursuing objectives which are now, to all intents and purposes, higher than those of the european union. we must therefore move away from inaction and the strategy of the status quo. the success of cancún forces us to feed the international negotiation process in a much more constructive way.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his work and, in principle, of course, support the adoption, as of tomorrow, of the report as voted on in the itre committee. now let us come to the incredible potential of energy savings. the european commission itself reports that if we got out of our energy drunkenness, if we reduced our energy waste by 20%, we could create a million jobs, we could almost save almost 1,000 euros per european household and obviously reduce our external energy bill. 20% efficiency or reduction in our energy consumption in europe is 15 nabucco in energy and we are missing it. fiona hall said it, and i'm willing to bet that you can't do the math. if reports today indicate that we are far from reaching 20%, we can assess what we are saving or not saving each year. we also know that this approach to eco-design, eco-labelling, on cars and so on does not provide overall consistency and does not get the results we want. i'm a little surprised at the debate we're having here. i am sorry, commissioner, but when you say that we have a problem with the definition of energy efficiency, that may be true in theory, but the 'climate-energy package' is very clear on the objective, it says: 20% reduction in energy consumption compared to a baseline. it is not a question of defining energy efficiency, there are many energy volumes to be revised, it is the "climate-energy package". we're told that we don't need a binding goal. so we're doing it on renewables. the european commission, just a few days ago, negotiated a binding agreement on climate change in cancún, tried to defend the kyoto protocol, and here we are taking up the arguments of the united states or china, saying 'we will do something voluntary and then if one day we really realise that it is not working, we will do something binding'. as regards the report under consideration, a number of members have proposed that the aspect of buildings be strengthened, that there is scope for a major european initiative on buildings, which still account for 40% of our energy, and that much more can be done on renovation. finally, citizens are facing the cold today, they are paying a lot of money for their energy bills; if europe comes out of the crisis, energy will be much more expensive internationally. citizens will face twice as much energy bill. we must move much faster, and i would also ask you, commissioner, to please insist with mr van rompuy that the meeting on 4 february should also be a meeting on energy consumption. the road map he proposes today is, from this point of view, indecent.
mr president, the search for savings is a real challenge, a challenge to reduce the dependence of our territory, a challenge to free up large financial resources to finance research into new energy sources, a challenge to revitalise our territories. if energy efficiency in buildings is to be at the centre of our concerns, it is essential that the objectives and action of the union, as well as of the member states, focus on social housing, because it is the most modest who must benefit, as a matter of priority, from the effort on energy efficiency. we must put an end to the scandal of the poorest being charged with the highest energy bills, while in the name of energy efficiency we are creating tax niches which enable the richest to lower their bills while paying less tax. a real energy efficiency policy should also involve the possibility of selling electricity at a lower cost to railways, metros and trams, as was done in france before the european directives on the single energy market prohibited it. one of the first measures would therefore be to break up the single market for electricity in the union, because competition on a product such as electricity, which is not stored and transported properly, is an aberration in terms of energy efficiency. finally, energy efficiency will only create quality jobs if it is based on a genuine strategic industrial initiative of the union free of the constraints of the free market.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council which opens this week comes in a particular context: speculative attacks on the euro, a resurgence of euroscepticism and the beginning of reflections on europe's finances as this parliament prepares to vote on the 2011 budget. all of this is connected, of course. the euro crisis and solidarity measures are having an impact on the purchasing power of europeans, and they are asking themselves whether all this is worthwhile, whether it is going to lead to anything. hence the growing euroscepticism even in countries that have traditionally been pro-european, a phenomenon recovered by populist and extremist political formations that feed on fears and temptations to withdraw into themselves, and which, when they are in government, have no miracle cure. i will start with the euro, which we must protect and strengthen, and ask ourselves some questions. firstly, has europe ever had a currency as stable as the euro? i say to those who are nostalgic for the national currency that a reversal would have catastrophic consequences for europe. secondly, who is behind the attacks on the euro that have been taking place for months? who benefits from crime, if i may say so? i'm not a big fan of conspiracy theories, but in my conversations with political leaders and financial analysts, the leads are converging on the source of our problems. when are we gonna learn our lesson? i think we can talk directly to our friends. thirdly, why is the euro still trading at over $1.30? this is seriously hampering our exports and everyone is saying that the euro is finished. why should our countries be the only ones to practice a strict policy of orthodoxy while our competitors take advantage of their weak currency to boost their economies? that is the question our fellow citizens are asking us. these are the questions that have been put to me in the last fortnight in meetings with elected politicians. ladies and gentlemen, what we need is a message of confidence that the crisis is over, measures to help growth to return, concrete measures such as those recently taken by the barroso commission to revive the internal market or to moralise the financial markets. what we need, as the euro crisis has shown, is convergence in our social and fiscal policies. it takes courage. mr president-in-office, go further and faster, and we shall have solved a lot of problems. we will need a lot of courage in the years ahead if we are to strengthen our countries in global competition, if we are to use taxpayers' money in the most efficient way possible. this effort to rationalise expenditure must be made at all levels: local, regional, national and european. we must review the political and financial priorities of the union, we must put europe's public finances on a par with the past, we must ask the real questions and, depending on the answers we give them, adapt our budgetary framework for the period 2014-2020. it is to this fundamental debate that the european parliament is calling for, and it is to this substantive discussion that we, as the directly elected representatives of 500 million europeans, intend to participate fully, despite the displeasure of some governments who deny us this right. i ask the council to give its consent and, if necessary, to take a vote. those who deny us the opportunity to participate in the debate will have to bear their own responsibility. we are not here to gain power, but to contribute to a debate which is crucial for the future of european integration. we must make the right decisions to make the european budget even more of an investment budget. if our member states, because of budgetary constraints, can invest less in education, training, research and innovation, let us do so at european level by pooling our resources and thus making economies of scale. the epp group believes that the debate on europe's finances should not be reduced to a quarrel between member states who want their money back. it is, on the contrary, a question of reconciling our fellow citizens with europe by making them feel the added value of concerted and visionary european action. i am making a tour of the capitals and i can tell you that the debate is taking root, so take advantage of it. i would like to thank the belgian presidency, as we approach christmas and the new year and as this presidency is about to end, for its very good cooperation with parliament, and also josé manuel barroso for the courage he had on own resources, to commit himself to presenting a text before june. i believe that we must continue together in this direction and the heads of state will have to follow us. we have to show them the way. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is something strange about this. mr. chastel, you mentioned the next summit and you could have told us that it was still a little before that summit. you could have told us you'd have to moderate some debates. mr barroso, i do not think we will go any further with the language of wood. martin schultz is right: we must describe the reality of the crisis and tell things as they are, but we must also describe the reality of our political impotence and the reasons for this impotence. it's no use saying we made the right decisions. you know as well as i do, and we all know here, that we always take them late. we're going backwards and forwards. i do not say that it is your fault, on the contrary, i believe that the commission has even been a point of stability at a time when clarity was lacking. but now - and i think guy verhofstadt has asked the real question - what should be our strategy in the coming months? the strategy, in my view, is simple: that the commission proposes a stability pact, which it has already proposed, which defines the necessary stability, and therefore the responsibility of all of us towards the euro, and a solidarity pact which defines the solidarity we need. there will be no stability without solidarity, there will be no solidarity without stability! we are no longer interested in these discussions between mrs merkel and mr untel! yes, the position of some countries, including germany, which say that we need stability and that what has happened must not happen again, is correct. yes, if we do not say, at the same time, that solidarity obliges us to create the possibility of protecting the euro with euro-bonds to invest, to continue to ensure the ecological and economic transformation. we need to invest, but at the national level we can't do it anymore! there is a two-sided coin, it is the stable coin and the solidarity coin, and in the middle, there is responsibility. mr president of the commission, make a proposal for reforming the way the union works so that it can achieve stability and solidarity, with eurobonds, so that there can no longer be speculation against the debts of certain countries, and with eurobonds at the same time, you have an investment opportunity. when mr oettinger comes to us and says he needs a trillion dollars for energy reform, but where is he going to get the money? is he gonna play the lottery or what? it is completely absurd to say that we need a trillion without saying how we are going to mobilize the funds necessary for this necessary economic transformation. so the strategy is simple: the commission proposes, parliament amends and decides, and there will be a position of the commission and parliament against or alongside the council, and the council will have to react to that common position. that is the only solution in today's debate. if we wait for mrs merkel to make a decision once for 15 minutes before she has to make it, well, you can wait until the end of time! she'll always be late for a train. of course, you can tell me that since there's a next train, it doesn't matter, we can always take the next one. but no! gorbachev said, "he who is late, history will punish him". (the president cut the speaker off) i don't want europe to be punished by history. you take your responsibilities, we take ours and we must demonstrate to the council that the political stability we need is here, in the commission and in parliament, and we will thus challenge the council's instability. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, in the history of parliaments, the following has rarely happened, namely that parliaments have been given powers. when parliaments got more powers, they usually took them. and this morning's debate makes me think that we are right - the rapporteurs of the economic governance package - to go further than what is proposed to us, because, commissioner, in essence, the commission is telling us 'we tried but we did not succeed' and the council is telling us 'we do not want to go further'. well, that's a good thing, there's the house! it is the council that has wanted to increase the powers of parliament, not parliament that is exercising powers in an unthinking way. under the treaty of lisbon, we are co-legislators. so i am simply pleased to say that the report i am tabling this morning also concerns eurobonds, because the debate must take place in this house. i do not want mr barroso to say to us: 'oh, this is all very complicated; "we've already done a lot of stupid things in the council, "so now, above all, you must be quiet". we're going to do the exact opposite. we'll talk about it in the halls of democracy. and secondly, there is also the idea of a european monetary fund, because all these solutions, which are, as martin schulz said, temporary and permanent, are not necessarily what the citizens expect. we can watch the trains go by or we can work. this parliament will try to work. we have no blueprint, we have no truth, but i think it is unusual that the debate is in the financial times or the zeit and not in the european parliament. so we'll do our work. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, it is the doubt that worries the citizens of europe, as do the financial markets. now that europeans have united their destiny, are they able to face it in solidarity? solidarity is being shown today at the height of the crisis. that's good, but it's not enough. united in the face of this challenge, europeans must also show solidarity in preparing for the future, because if the crisis has hit europe more permanently than the other continents, it is because our economy was already weakened by ten years of weak growth, only 1% per year on average. the ten years of the lisbon strategy were a lost decade. the european leaders have given themselves, with agenda 2020, a plan to revive our economy, but without specifying the financing, control, incentives or possible sanctions. the time has therefore come to supplement the stability pact with a solidarity pact, as has already been said in this house. the word solidarity appears 23 times in the treaty, so let us translate it into action. a procedure is being put in place to ensure stability by avoiding deficits, namely the coordination of budgetary policies. well, let's broaden its scope, coordinate to secure future funding as well. spend less but spend more, not each one alone at home under threat of punishment, but all together to build. if europeans are to avoid the worst, they must also be united in preparing for the best.
madam president, the euro is our common good and today the trade unions of employees come to our parliament to express their concern that the workers themselves are paying the price of the crisis with a weak euro, with a euro under attack and not with a euro that brings growth and jobs. it is therefore essential that we do not envisage a mere technical revision of the treaties but that the two major dysfunctions of the euro area which have been revealed by the crisis are addressed. the first answer is eurobonds, as has been said, eurobonds help to stabilise the euro but they also help to counter speculative attacks immediately. the second way of introducing fiscal justice and making the financial market pay the price of the crisis is precisely to introduce a tax on financial transactions so that it is not the employees who, in the fiscal injustice, pay the price of this crisis. finally, this european debt agency must be set up to enable it to pool part of the sovereign debt issued by the member states. finally, i would also like to express my support for mr juncker and say that here the words of dominique strauss-kahn, director-general of the imf, who recommended increasing the stability fund, are a last step that would be wise. intervening in time - we have said this - not being late and choosing to strengthen rather than weaken, that is what would make it possible to give a governance act that would re-introduce the trust that our president martin schultz called for. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have listened to this long debate as a citizen. i would say that mr barroso's remarks were very interesting to hear. what we want is for them to become acts. clear and comprehensible political will and a speech of truth are the conditions for restoring the confidence of our fellow citizens. it is imperative that we do not hide the facts. there are public expenditures, they must be covered or reduced. there are public and private debts, and they have to be paid. many experts have ideas about everything. those who didn't see the crisis coming are now rich in brilliant solutions. but when we are in a difficult situation, we must use good judgment. let us avoid repeating in the management of public finances the mistakes or failures of the private sector which led to the financial and banking crisis. sophisticated montage does not create value, does not create wealth. they are illusory and often favour only speculators. the reality is there. our states have lived beyond their means. the consequences must be courageously drawn from this by ensuring that the burden of redress is fairly shared.
madam president, commissioner, you are going to propose the creation of this permanent mechanism, based on article 136. i regret that you did not use article 122 which would have allowed for all member states but we are entering into a political debate as parliament will be consulted under article 48 on simplified revision procedures and i would like to put two political subjects on the table. first, the euro area is not enough. at a minimum, commissioner, we should take all the member states which are obliged to adopt the euro as their currency without delay, which is 25 member states. the second issue is parliamentary political control. it is a mechanism, not an emergency, but permanent. it would therefore be logical to have parliamentary political control under the appropriate conditions which you will have to propose to us because parliaments, particularly the european parliament, are entitled to exercise control over the executive in relation to this mechanism.
the rapporteur. - madam president, today the european union is opening up to participatory democracy. it is not yet direct democracy, citizens will not decide for themselves, but they are gaining the right to directly, publicly, massively, challenge those who make decisions in europe, above the heads of their governments and their elected representatives. the citizens now have the same right of political initiative as the council of ministers and the european parliament have here. we have benefited, as zita gurmai said, from the excellent preparatory work carried out by commissioner šefčovič and his teams and from the intelligent and effective cooperation of the belgian presidency. on the part of parliament, this text is the result of the work of four rapporteurs, a gang of four, including you, madam president. your presence has been an honor. we wanted to design the procedure as simple as possible for the citizens, as citizen friendly as possible. who can participate? citizens, that is to say natural persons, all citizens, including, why not, elected representatives, but only european citizens, the treaty leaving no doubt on this subject. the right to participate in the citizens' initiative is an additional privilege enjoyed by citizens in europe. who can take the initiative? it will take seven citizens in an organising committee, not 300,000 as proposed by the commission, not 100,000 as envisaged by the council, but seven citizens from seven different countries, i.e. a quarter of the member states. who should you contact if you want to start an initiative? the commission itself will publish a guide to the citizens' initiative and set up a specialised contact point. what procedure? the simplest one! one application to register the initiative and to have its admissibility assessed. what is the eligibility criteria? the treaty, the whole treaty, nothing but the treaty, including the charter of fundamental rights. how can an initiative be supported? it is not a question of the political, financial, local, national, european, international support, lobbying, ngos, churches, etc. the only condition is full transparency. those invited to sign must know who is behind the initiative. it is up to them, the citizens, to take responsibility. what are the formalities for collecting signatures? the simplest ones! signatures on paper and online. of course, the control can only be exercised by the member states, but we have ensured, as mrs gurmai said, that the forms are as harmonized as possible. in the end, a genuine single european regime will have to be established in the 27 countries, a third of the states are already ready for it. finally, what will be the political consequences? this is a subject on which parliament has placed great emphasis. in accordance with the treaty, the commission will be the sole judge of whether or not to give legislative follow-up to a successful initiative. the commission must then be protected against political pressure to multiply legislation when the union is already over-regulating. but at the same time, we must protect citizens from the risk of no policy follow-up in cases where the commission considers that additional legislation is inappropriate. this is why two new rights have been created for the authors of successful initiatives: the right to be received by the commission to present their motions and the right to a public debate, which may take place in front of the european parliament itself. in short, this is a simple, innovative and democratic procedure. the citizens have the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens' initiative as proposed by the treaties and specified in this regulation is a parody of democracy. firstly, it makes the citizens believe that they can be heard by the eurocracy, which has systematically refused to listen to their voices when they expressed, by referendum, that they did not want the construction of the european superstate. so start by listening to the citizens when they say "no" or when they say "stop". it is also a travesty of democracy in the light of the restrictions on admissibility. citizens' initiatives must be in line with the treaties and the alleged values underlying them. in the name of the principles of free movement enshrined in the treaties, we will therefore ruthlessly reject any demand for the protection of our economies, any attempt to curb the financial globalisation whose devastating effects we are suffering to the full, and any attempt to reverse the flow of migrants. the same fate would be reserved for the initiative to stop the negotiations with turkey, since the commission can be asked to act but not to cease acting. if the initiative receives enough signatures, the commission is not obliged to act on it, but merely to justify its choice. it's really a travesty of democracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate all the rapporteurs, and in particular my colleague and neighbour, mrs zita gurmai, on their outstanding work on this issue. the creation of the citizens' initiative is one of the most interesting new features of the lisbon treaty. i believe that this is the emergence of a new legislative power within the european institutions, placed in the hands of the citizens. in a context where the feeling of belonging to the european union is still too weak and where the figures for abstention in the european elections, in particular, are very worrying, this new tool will enable european citizens to become full-fledged actors in european democracy. this subject is of great interest and curiosity. that is why it would be a bad sign to focus exclusively on the risks that citizens' initiatives would entail. while it is of course necessary to properly frame this device, we should not be afraid of the debates that may ensue. the compromise reached between parliament and the council is perfectly balanced and now, once this text has been voted, we must ensure that this instrument comes into force as soon as possible, because the citizens are waiting for us and this opportunity is important. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i would like to thank our four rapporteurs for their excellent work and for the significant added value which they have brought to the text originally proposed by the commission. the citizens' initiative which we in the epp are about to vote on with enthusiasm is a major step forward in the lisbon treaty. let us not be mistaken, this instrument can really change the european political landscape if it is used with both responsibility and boldness. it can help to bring european citizens directly into the european political debate. it can help to bring about a european public opinion, that is, men and women citizens of europe who debate together, who take a stand together and who come together on genuinely european issues. but let's not let our fellow citizens down. let us urge our member states to take swift enforcement measures where necessary, let us not disappoint our fellow citizens, this is about strengthening european democracy.
rapporteur. − madam president, at this time and hour, everything having been said, i am happy to leave you the last say in this matter, which you know as well as i do.
in writing. the citizens' initiative is finally coming to life. this great democratic innovation will lay the foundations for a new european citizenship. it will become the instrument for expressing directly the concerns of the european people on issues which are sometimes decisive for our common future. the possibilities for intervention are as important as the expansion of the union's powers. the european parliament encourages a rapid and effective implementation of the directive. the european parliament and the council have adopted a number of resolutions on the future of the european union. the conditions for drawing up an initiative, which parliament wanted to be flexible (one million people from at least a quarter of the member states, or today seven countries), will give the citizens concerned all the keys to asking the commission to propose a new legislative text. that will be possible as early as next year.
mr president, i would like to speak on the basis of rules 146 and 148 of our rules of procedure, concerning multilingualism and the deterioration of multilingualism in the european parliament. i take advantage of the fact that the resolution on the european commission's work programme, plus amendments nos 19 to 28, were not translated into french at 12.40 p.m. to draw your attention to the unacceptable deterioration of multilingualism in the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - mr president, this is a purely technical amendment to take account of the date of entry into force of the regulation establishing the european financial markets authority and the fact that this regulation will only be able to enter into force at a later date. a recital and an article in the text we are voting on should be adapted accordingly. in recital 22, the second sentence should be deleted and in article 2, i propose that the second sentence should also be deleted. this oral amendment was discussed and agreed by the various groups which signed the compromise amendment. the text we are going to vote on today completes the regulation on credit rating agencies and is part of the european union's policy to better regulate financial services. i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner barnier and the belgian presidency for their very strong involvement in this matter.
in writing. the budgetary practice of the european union is based on a number of principles, including that of specialisation. this means that an amount allocated to a policy can only be used within the policy. this principle, together with others, ensures sound financial management in the union. but it also results in a certain budgetary rigidity. the annual budget, or even more so the multiannual financial framework, cannot cover all the expenditure facing the union. for this reason, a 'flexibility instrument' has been introduced in recent years. it consists of a financial reserve, the amount of which is entered in the budget each year, and which makes it possible to finance policies or projects whose cost could not have been anticipated. the report by my colleague reimer böge calls for the use of this instrument to finance the lifelong learning programme, the competitiveness and innovation programme and aid to palestine. as i believe that the union can do something useful in these three areas, i voted for this text without hesitation.
in writing. it is unacceptable that the financing of aid to the palestinian people, european education and training programmes and programmes to promote competitiveness and free competition should be grouped together in a single text. the malicious intent is obvious. this mix of genres is forcing me to abstain. i reiterate my full support for the cause of the palestinian people.
in writing. the preparation of the 2011 annual budget has once again given rise to genuine political negotiation between meps and member state governments. in this context of budgetary constraints, the council of the european union, which represents the governments of the member states, has wished to involve the union in the efforts of rigour to which the european countries are striving. although the european parliament (and the commission) wanted the crisis to be tackled by voluntary policies, it aligned itself with the council's position, showing its solidarity with the member states. in return for this concession, parliament wanted a debate to be opened on the union's resources, and in particular the question of whether it could have its own funding, independent of the member states' contributions. the council, which was initially intransigent, has finally given in to our legitimate demands. that is why the other members and i were able to agree to this budget, which is limited in its short-term ambition but which opens up prospects for the future of the union's policies.
in writing. the european union must have a budget that is commensurate with its ambitions. it must not be carried away by the crisis but must rise to the challenges that lie ahead. with the lisbon treaty, parliament now plays an equal role with the council and has established itself as a force for proposals. i voted in favour of the 2011 budget because it is our responsibility as meps to give europe clear political direction. europe will maintain its priorities in 2011. it will be able to revise its financial needs upwards in order to put its new skills into action. despite the difficult economic situation, parliament succeeded in obtaining a firm commitment from the member states. on a proposal from parliament, the commission will in 2011 start to reflect on the different types of own resources needed for europe to ensure its financial autonomy in the future. i regret, however, that parliament has not reached a consensus on the additional funding that the iter project will need from 2012 onwards. a flagship project of international research and european scientific dynamism, the experimental thermonuclear reactor could have benefited from an unused surplus part of the 2011 budget.
in writing. parliament, after struggling with the council on the 2011 budget, on the conditions for the next multiannual financial framework and on the question of the union's own resources, has lost the battle! by adopting the 2011 budget at the december plenary session, we gave the council the benefit of the doubt. our concern was not with the numbers, but with political demands! we have not forgotten our seven demands adopted at the last plenary session. the positive point is that the commission will present a proposal in spring 2011 on the own resources issue. parliament will be included in these discussions as well as in those necessary for the preparation of the financial perspective. but the details are still to be worked out, so the fight for respect for codecision in this area is only just beginning!
in writing. i voted in favour of a budget that was almost zero higher than in 2010 to show that parliament could show maturity and responsibility in a context of economic crisis that severely hampers national governments. it is not appropriate to increase the 2011 budget at a time when the majority of member states have entered a period of severe budgetary constraints. i am glad that the bitter negotiations between the various institutions on this subject have led to a compromise and that we have avoided the budgetary crisis for 2011.
in writing. today's adoption of the 2011 budget highlighted a double failure for the european parliament. the budget adopted was too low: +2.91%, which is well below its first reading (+6%) and the commission's initial proposal (+5.8%). the amounts adopted correspond exactly to those proposed without any real negotiation being possible by the council, which does not in any way reassure us as to the possibilities of negotiation for future budgets. since the lisbon treaty came into force, parliament has been co-deciding with the council on budgetary matters: by not obtaining, to date, any specific commitment on the role that we members will play in the elaboration of the next financial framework and in the necessary reflection on new own resources, we risk leaving the council alone in control of the future of the european project. however, given the position of some member states, there is a real risk that this project will be weakened. i particularly regret the attitude of the european right, which was more than determined at the beginning of the negotiations to give up at the first telephone calls from heads of state. the political coherence of such a change of direction will be judged by everyone.
in writing. i voted for the new budget and i am pleased that a common ground has finally been found between the european institutions. the european parliament's aim in voting on the budget is to provide the european union with a stable budget, which can be established as early as 2011, thus avoiding the use of the system of provisional twelfths which would have threatened the implementation of many european policies. nevertheless, i regret the lack of flexibility imposed by this new budget and the choice made by certain political groups, notably the socialists, to weaken iter, the only long-term basic research project in which the european union plays a leading role, by postponing the vote on its financing. by withholding 600 million euro of the funds available to finance iter in a crisis context where european public money is running out, the socialists have shown their irresponsibility and inconsistency and are undermining a strategic project that creates jobs.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the 2011 budget. after lengthy negotiations, an agreement was reached which satisfied parliament. parliament expects the provisions of the lisbon treaty to be put into practice. the treaty provides for the involvement of our institution in the negotiations on the next long-term budget and this change must be accepted at all levels. parliament also wanted to maintain certain reservations in the 2011 budget. this includes an amount of eur 425000 set aside in the 2011 budget of the european police college, which can only be released under certain conditions. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states.
in writing. the 2011 budget, the first on which parliament has a right of review, confirmed the lack of power of our assembly. not only does it validate neoliberal counter-reforms and work for the financial markets instead of the citizens who elected them, it also allows itself to capitulate in the name of the emergency. i will not help this evil deed by voting for it.
in writing. when it comes to making the european marriage rules more coherent, an agreement among 27 is difficult to achieve. fortunately, since the amsterdam treaty of 1997, member states who wish to do so can join forces to make progress in a specific area, in 'enhanced cooperation', in order to form a core of driving states that can propel the union forward. the difficulties faced by spouses in obtaining recognition of their status throughout europe, particularly in the event of divorce or legal separation, have led some states to join forces to improve the coordination of national regulations. i have insisted that this enhanced cooperation, in which france wishes to participate, be implemented. in my view, this initiative is a step towards bringing europeans closer together in an area which concerns us all and in which legal certainty is paramount. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation implementing this enhanced cooperation. in future, such enhanced cooperation should be used as often as necessary.
in writing. if two people of different nationalities (or simply two people who no longer reside in the same member state) are considering divorce, they should know which court has jurisdiction in which country to go to. the two people who are divorcing will soon be able to choose the legal regime of the european union that will govern their divorce. a new step in the progressive construction of a 'common european judicial area', a new step forward, very concrete and directly applicable to everyone's daily life. while i welcome the adoption of this report and the use, for the first time, of the so-called enhanced cooperation procedure, i regret that it was necessary to use this procedure and that no agreement was reached between all the member states of the european union. i hope that other member states will soon join this cooperation.
in writing. in principle, credit rating agencies issue independent opinions on the credit quality of an entity, debt, financial bond or financial instrument. however, the opinions of these agencies can sometimes have serious consequences for the economy of the countries whose financial regularity they note. in 2009, the eu adopted regulation 1060/2009 which aims to regulate the activities of agencies in order to protect investors and european financial markets from the risk of bad practices. it lays down the conditions for issuing credit ratings and the rules for the registration and supervision of credit rating agencies. at the same time, a report by an expert group concluded that the supervisory framework needed to be strengthened in order to reduce the risk and severity of future financial crises. the 'esma' regulation has established the european securities and markets authority. in order to ensure the proper functioning of this authority and its proper integration into the general framework of financial regulation, it has become necessary to amend regulation no 1060/2009. i voted for this report which improves the control of rating agencies.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my good friend and colleague jean-paul gauzès (epp, fr), i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the 2009 regulation on credit rating agencies and providing for the supervision of these entities to be entrusted to the newly created european securities and markets authority (esma). i support the improvements made by the rapporteur, in particular the transfer to esma of new powers which the commission intended to reserve for itself, particularly in the area of sanctions. i think it is important for esma to be able to delegate some of its functions to national authorities. i regret that the subject of the rating of states and the special monitoring to which the rating of states must be subject has not been dealt with (but this amendment to the regulation is probably not the right support). i propose the creation of a european public agency for the rating of states which would have all the necessary guarantees of technical quality and independence.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the activity of credit rating agencies is already theoretically supervised and supervised at european level. has it challenged the dominance of the three american agencies that make the rain and the sun in european markets, sovereign debts and therefore the rates at which european states can borrow? i 'm afraid not . this has not prevented standard & poor's from threatening to downgrade belgium's credit rating, nor moody's from threatening spain or fitch ireland. none of these agencies have been sanctioned, not even by their clients, not even by a drop in their reputation, for not doing their job properly, at the time of enron, at the time of the subprime crisis. they now claim to have a political role: the threat to belgium is aimed at forcing the formation of a government; the absence of a threat to france is aimed at artificially preventing the break-up of the euro zone. the truth is that their power exists only because the markets are not regulated, and your texts, which i voted for, will do little to improve matters.
in writing. private rating agencies are given new rights of regulatory intervention and promises of delegation of power by public authorities. their dependence on private sponsors is unlimited. nor their arbitrariness. the public power resigns. it's a shame, you know?
in writing. metrology is the science of measurement. since antiquity, europeans have successively adopted kyrielles as measuring systems in all areas (length, volume, alcoholometry, etc.). the adoption of the metric system, for example, has enabled better collaboration between the various economic agents on the continent and then in the world. however, in many areas disparate measurements and measurement systems remain. the union has long pursued a policy of harmonising measurement systems in order to remove these barriers to cooperation between europeans. directive 2004/22 was an important step in this movement. as we prepare to revise this legislation, a number of instruments which are now obsolete and which should be eliminated in order to improve readability are emerging. i have supported this text, which brings a welcome change to the metrology legislation.
in writing. the citizens' initiative, promised by the lisbon treaty, is finally being implemented. this new form of participation in eu policy-making allows european citizens to call directly on the commission to submit a proposal on issues of interest to them and falling within the eu's fields of competence. all that was needed was a procedural regulation to make this new right of european citizens a reality. it is now done, with my support in the vote. a citizens' committee composed of people from at least seven different member states may register an initiative with the commission. after that, signatures can be collected, either on paper or online. the million signatures needed will have to come from at least a quarter of the eu member states and be collected in less than 12 months. member states shall verify the validity of the statements of support. all signatories will have to be citizens of the european union and of voting age in european elections. finally, the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will remain the ultimate judge of whether to initiate the suggested legislative procedure.
in writing. a compromise was reached on the rules governing the citizens' initiative and the report was adopted by a very large majority: 628 votes in favour, only 15 against and 24 abstentions. i welcome this vote which opens up the possibility for european citizens to make their voices heard more strongly from 2012. the idea is simple, it is a kind of european-wide petition: a citizens' committee from at least 7 member states will have 1 year to collect 1 million signatures on a subject of public interest that requires the attention of the commission. the commission will then have to decide within three months whether it considers a legislative proposal on the subject to be appropriate or not, and it will have to justify its decision. we can regret certain conditions obtained by the member states, such as the need to be a european citizen and not just a national to be able to sign the petition or the possibility for the states to ask for identity cards to check signatures. nevertheless, the citizens' initiative is still a good idea, a blueprint for participatory democracy that we must now make a reality!
in writing. by adopting the basic rules of the 'citizens' initiative' introduced by the treaty of lisbon, a further step towards european direct democracy is taken. in the future, the commission will have to consider drafting a new european law if the request comes from one million citizens from at least one quarter of all member states. this new instrument thus gives european citizens the opportunity to have a real say in the legislative process by bringing a demand or concern that is based on popular will to the european level. this is a victory for our movement, which has been calling for a rapprochement between the european union and its citizens by building a more concrete, more transparent and more accessible europe.
in writing. i am pleased to have voted, with the overwhelming majority of members, in favour of the report on the 'citizens' initiative', which introduces an unprecedented level of popular participation in the legislative process of the european union. by giving a million citizens the right of political initiative, parliament is today setting a fine example of participatory democracy. the european union must evolve in this direction: it must become ever closer to its citizens.
in writing. we have all been waiting for this since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty last year: the regulation on the citizens' initiative, which lays down the basic rules and procedures for its implementation and, above all, will finally allow the use of this new instrument. one million european citizens (just 0.2% of the eu population) will now be able to ask the commission to submit proposals in certain areas: an important step towards participatory democracy, which should allow and encourage transnational debates in europe, since the initiative must be taken by citizens residing in different member states; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the environment, the protection of the environment, the environment, the environment, and so on.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative is one of the most interesting new features of the lisbon treaty. this is a european petition which will enable one million european citizens, from a representative number of eu member states, to put a subject on the commission's agenda. in other words, it is the emergence of a real legislative power for the european citizens, because the commission will be obliged to respond to this citizens' initiative by commissioning a study or proposing a directive. in a context where citizens still feel far too little belonging to the european union and where the figures for abstention in european elections are particularly worrying, this new tool will enable european citizens to become full-fledged actors in european democracy. that is why it is rather regrettable to hear voices today about the risks that the citizens' initiative would entail. the compromise reached with the council is perfectly balanced, and the terms of the project's admissibility mean that abusive initiatives will not be allowed to take place. we must not be afraid of the debate that citizens will have when they take this tool into their own hands. i voted for this text.
in writing. parliament was asked to comment on the commission communication presenting its work programme for 2011. i voted in favour of this resolution, which recalls the need for good cooperation between the commission and the european parliament and its role as guardian of the treaties and the general interest of the community. the resolution also places particular emphasis on the europe 2020 objectives of growth for jobs and welcomes the european semester initiative for better public financial management. this growth will have to be smart (by promoting digital technologies, research and development, education), sustainable (with an energy efficiency target of 20%) and inclusive (through the fight against discrimination between workers and better social dialogue). the commission will have to deepen the internal market, the area of freedom, security and justice, and its still-nascent foreign policy.
in writing. since the cairo summit in 2000, the european union has launched a broad foreign policy towards africa. in 2005, the union launched its strategy for africa. two years later, the perspective changes and this time the eu-africa summit in lisbon leads to a strategic partnership with africa. the third african summit ended a short while ago. it is not a complete success, and we regret the presence of dictator robert mugabe and, conversely, the absence of a representative from sudan. i voted for the european parliament's resolution on the future of the partnership. the new action plan is structured around eight new major themes: 1- peace and security, 2- democratic governance and human rights, 3- trade, regional integration and infrastructure, 4- the millennium development goals, 5- energy, 6- climate change, 7- migration, mobility and employment, 8- science, the information society and space.
in writing. while the construction of europe was for a long time confined to working towards the completion of the internal market, the last ten years have seen an unprecedented emulation of european legislators. at the outset of the european community, there was an implicit division of labour between the council of europe, which was responsible for matters relating to individual freedoms, and the community, which was the embryo of a single market. but fairly quickly, the courts of the member states had to deal with cases challenging community law on the basis of human rights. that is why, after a long gestation, the charter of fundamental rights was adopted in 2000 and entered into force last year with the treaty of lisbon. the charter now provides the court of justice of the union with a single legal basis for protecting the fundamental rights of european citizens. yet we are only at the beginning of this new system. that is why i have supported this text, which reminds all european actors, member states and institutions, of their duties under the charter and of the need to develop a real culture and effective cooperation in the field of civil liberties.
in writing. as usual, the report on human rights in the european union gives rise to two deviations: - one is to demand ever more rights for all kinds of minorities, to the detriment of those of the majority of our fellow citizens; - the other is to chastise patriotic political movements, smearing them with the same eternal leftist and lying labels, and to claim to challenge the legitimacy of their electoral successes or to curb their freedom of expression. this xenophobia and militant nationophobia is tiresome. you don't have to judge the outcome of democratic elections held in democratic countries. the recent successes of national parties in france, hungary, austria, sweden, the netherlands and elsewhere do not indicate any worrying drift. they are a sign that the citizens of europe are tired of your policies, of your laxity on immigration, of your inability to protect the economic interests of our nations, of your complacency towards the financial interests of the powerful, of your questioning of our social protection systems... you are the ones who are in fact constantly violating their rights, including their right to security, to decent work and pay, to preserve their culture and to decide their own future!
in writing. the european union is committed to defending consumers in the internal market. this is not only a matter of ethics, but also a matter of policy. increased consumer confidence in the supply of goods on the market stimulates demand. the role of advertising is ambivalent in this respect. it is a great way of developing demand, but it is also sometimes, through questionable practices, a negative factor in the functioning of the market. internet advertising focuses on these abuses, which primarily target the weakest among us. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the commission, after consultation and study by the european parliament, to take the necessary measures to reform the current rules. taking account of these new fraudulent practices will be a further step towards a single market that respects individuals.
in writing. the title of this report suggested that the assembly would finally look at the model of society that advertisers sell us without asking them. but apart from some interesting points, such as the fight against targeted advertising and discrimination in advertising or the demand for a reduction in television advertising for children, this text falls far short of what one might expect. it merely chastises illegal advertising that would distort the sacred and holy of free competition and extols the merits of advertising for citizens, whom it calls consumers, and for the media. without me. i'm against it.
in writing. the energy issue is a major challenge for europe. it is important to remember that the development of the continent owes much to the relatively easy supply of energy which european countries have enjoyed for more than a century. the energy question is now being asked in new terms. the use of fossil fuels is increasingly seen as an archaic idea. the dual pressures of global warming and the inevitably increasing difficulty of supplying oil and, to a lesser extent, gas, are pushing us to look for new solutions. since 2006, there has been an energy efficiency action plan. it tackles two aspects of efficiency. to achieve savings that make the union less dependent on its international partners, it must tackle both efficiency in production and efficiency in consumption. cheaper buildings, more efficient appliances and more optimal production technologies will combine competitiveness, innovation and economies of scale. i have of course supported this basic text (including the binding target of 20% additional energy efficiency by 2020), which puts the union at the forefront of these areas.
in writing. adopted by a large majority, mr bendtsen's own-initiative report sends a timely political signal on the subject of energy, a few days after the end of the cancun summit and two months before the energy summit on 4 february 2011. energy efficiency is without doubt one of the most important issues in our fight for the environment. energy savings and energy efficiency are the fastest and most cost-effective way to reduce co2 emissions and improve security of supply. in this report, we call for increased efforts to achieve the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. i regret, however, that the amendment calling on the commission to launch an initiative next year to carry out a major renovation of existing buildings did not receive a majority. the report only mentions new construction, not the question of the management of existing buildings. buildings are responsible for about 40% of the eu's energy consumption and about 36% of its greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. buildings are responsible for about 40% of energy consumption and about 36% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. efficient buildings should therefore be a priority in the next review of the energy efficiency action plan. today, 30% of existing housing in europe is unhealthy and has a high energy bill. it is therefore important not only to promote new sustainable construction but also to renovate sustainably. this is why member states must launch without delay a programme of major renovation of existing buildings in order to achieve by 2050 a near-zero energy consumption in the building environment. there is also a link between energy efficiency and energy poverty. we therefore ask the commission to develop a new energy efficiency action plan which takes into account the needs of vulnerable consumers.
in writing. there is much to be done to improve energy efficiency in key sectors such as transport or buildings which offer untapped opportunities. however, it is unrealistic to set a binding target of improving energy efficiency by at least 20% by 2020 as there is no common evaluation methodology or indicators. instead, we should focus on concrete sectoral targets, such as the commitment to reduce energy consumption in existing buildings by 38%. the lack of financing is a major obstacle to the renovation of buildings in the residential and sme sectors. instead of fighting for unrealistic goals, the european commission should instead identify innovative solutions and stimulate public-private partnerships in this area, because this creative ecology is a source of jobs.
in writing. this report emphasises the principle of energy efficiency and advocates energy labelling. this is a good thing, even if we would have preferred to see the debate extended to energy efficiency and eco-labelling. he's worried about the energy crisis. that's good news. it is a pity that it is making it into an instrument of green capitalism, that it is in favour of free competition and calls for the intervention of financial intermediaries and extols the merits of the carbon market. it's a waste of the advances it promises.
author. - madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, your two institutions have carried out important work on economic governance and the european parliament is today hearing the commission's six proposals on economic governance. we are now governed by the treaty of lisbon, which provides in article 9 that in defining and implementing its policies and actions, the union shall take into account the requirements linked to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion, and a high level of education, training and protection of human health. this article is binding on all the institutions of the union and on all its policies. but today you have not carried out an impact study on the 'economic governance package' on which you are asking us to deliberate. these impact studies are very dear to the heart of the commission when it comes, for example, to implement legislation on electromagnetic diseases. we welcome this, but we would like to see the same zeal applied to economic governance. otherwise, what do we see? commissioner rehn explains that today there are three pillars in his strategy, growth on the one hand, economic governance on the other and finally the supervision of financial markets. but if the right arm does not know what the left arm is doing, then there will be no coherence in the action of the european union; there will be a lack of respect for what european law is under this article 9. we therefore ask you to assess the social impact in terms of employment, in terms of financing pensions, all pensions, in terms of social protection, in terms of financing public services, of the measures you are about to take. what will be the impact on your target in the 2020 poverty reduction strategy when we learn that today, within the european union, 116 million people were at risk of poverty or social exclusion based on the figures for 2008? the reality is that the commission seems to be applying a secret mandate which is one that asks you to echo the concerns of some member states in the council to reform the stability pact to make it more binding, to provide for preventive and corrective sanctions while ignoring the necessary investment strategy around what you yourself have agreed, the 2020 strategy. the next few years, as we know, will be more difficult in terms of job creation and growth prospects than the last few years. we are not opposed to a return to public finance, but we are opposed to a growth strategy which has no means of financing, with austerity plans which risk having immeasurable social effects with potential consequences in terms of inequality and where none of the inequalities in the distribution of wealth is involved. this cannot be the spirit of the lisbon treaty for which we fought and which you yourself, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, have the obligation to implement.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, our session seems to be particularly dedicated to human rights. this morning we adopted the gál report. we also adopted a report on trafficking in human beings, and another on the european protection order, in other words the rights of victims. i would put the rejection of the single permit on the same footing, whereby the european parliament rejected a proposal as being too discriminatory towards foreigners. i will not go back on the sakharov prize. i've already said what i have to say. but for me, this report is part of the same two-speed vision, the same human rights prismatic vision, which is being carried here by a number of colleagues, and i regret that. i am as much a supporter of freedom of religion as i am of freedom to believe or not to believe. and many non-believers are also persecuted around the world. our rapporteur has rejected amendments which take up the very concept of freedom of thought, belief and religion which exists in international law. why fifteen paragraphs on religious freedom, focusing mainly on christians and only six paragraphs on freedom of expression? nothing about union members. why this double standard, which consists in always mentioning the same countries: iraq, iran, russia, belarus or cuba, while there is hardly any mention of the situation in many african countries, and especially not in the maghreb where defenders of human rights and democracy are terribly questioned, especially in libya and tunisia, in almost general indifference? or nothing about colombia! i hope that this debate will allow us to move forward. i believe that it is by balancing our positions, by adapting our speeches and actions that we will progress towards a truly universal conception of human rights. we have a long way to go and i heard you, mrs ashton.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mrs ashton, allow me to thank mr arlacchi for the constructive atmosphere in which we worked. this report offers a very honest, very accurate analysis of the shortcomings of the international intervention in afghanistan since 2001. we agree with the key message: there will be no military solution. war is very expensive. the war is costing lives both of soldiers and civilians, and the war is only strengthening the taliban. the only solution is political. what afghans want is a real investment in the development of their country, in helping good governance, in building a justice system. the problem of fundamental rights, and first and foremost women's rights, remains unresolved. the very recent report of the un mission in afghanistan reveals the inability of the afghan government to fully protect the rights of women and girls. i quote: "as long as women and girls are subjected to practices that harm, degrade and deprive them of their rights, little meaningful and lasting progress can be made in afghanistan". to guarantee the rights of afghan women, we need not only legal and constitutional guarantees on paper, but more importantly, their prompt and adequate implementation. the national assembly has little influence in the country, with most of the power concentrated in the hands of president karzai. if it is not too late, the european union must give full support to the various institutions and, in particular, to the newly elected parliament in order to strengthen democracy and the rule of law.
madam president, i know that mr arlacchi knows afghanistan well. among the members of this house he is probably one of those who knows this country and this complex region best. but let us be clear: this text, as it stands, poses a serious problem. i do not agree with all the colleagues who congratulate and applaud the text. let me tell you why. i think that the first major flaw in this text is that it is absolutely intended to make us, the westerners, responsible for the ills in afghanistan. i'll give you three examples. firstly, mr arlacchi writes that the sanitary conditions have deteriorated since we were there, as if by chance. this is amazing! mrs. ashton said the exact opposite. no one noticed it. the second point: in recital b, read it, ladies and gentlemen, the western forces are occupying forces. the member states of this assembly which have experienced occupations will be able to judge the value of such a word. and thirdly, on paragraph 71 on the drone issue: listen, colleagues, i was an officer in afghanistan two years ago, as a military doctor. i treated german, british, polish, italian, french, allied afghan soldiers, and i even treated the taliban. i can tell you that if tomorrow you tell our military, "you can't use drones", that means you're telling them, "go to the enemy, take risks". i don't know if it's our responsibility as women and politicians to say that to our men. so i was not unaware of the complexity of the situation. i know that war is cruel, but i believe that we must stop this anti-militarism, this anti-americanism, this self-flagellation of western forces, which makes these western forces the cause of all the ills of the afghans. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that things are much simpler. the enemy is the taliban, not the americans and not the western forces. it's all very complex, but be careful how you present it.
madam president, very quickly three things. firstly, contrary to what has been said, i believe that the european union should have its own strategy. in afghanistan, we have men, soldiers, military personnel who are engaged, we have means, a lot of means that we have given, and it is important to have our own thinking. secondly, i think that the money from the international community should really be used to benefit the afghans. unfortunately, this has not been the case for the last 10 years, as we see every day in the field. i think that's partly, probably, the responsibility of ngos or humanitarians, but it's also largely, and perhaps the report doesn't say it enough, because of, i'm afraid, government corruption and a government that, frankly, is not very fair and is not very effective. thirdly, the question of political dialogue is raised. in fact, she's been trying to get in touch with the taliban for several years, which is nothing new. i think it is necessary, but i think it will be very difficult, because it will be very difficult to conduct a dialogue when we are in a weak position on the ground and the withdrawal of troops is well advanced.
madam president, to correct what has been said, mr arlacchi is quite right, the final text which is being proposed to us no longer contains, in recital b, the word 'occupying force'. the translations, and especially the french translation, were not correct in the last version, and the french translation, until this morning, always contained this expression of occupying power, which is why my colleague juvin intervened.
madam president, madam high representative, i share your view of the lisbon summit, which has produced a new strategic concept that is generally satisfactory, but we must nevertheless admit, in all honesty, that the poor relative of this text is the eu-nato relationship, in view of the potential of this strategic partnership, which should be much more ambitious. you have rightly noted successes and advances in the capacity mode. you have noted successes, of course, in afghanistan, where we are able to make compromises on the ground. but it is not satisfactory that we have no structured political dialogue with nato beyond the case of bosnia alone. we all know that the problem is the turkish problem. it will have to be dealt with seriously, pragmatically, i am sure, and i hope that the efforts you are making with secretary-general rasmussen will bear fruit. a word to say that the problem of duplication is often put forward to highlight the weaknesses of the european union and to limit the will of the european union's ambitions. it is a false problem because there are not two armies in our member states, a nato army and a european union army. there is an armed force per country and it is the country that chooses to put its armed forces at the disposal of the nato banner or the european union banner. so let's stop scaring ourselves with this duplication. a word about complementarity: it is essential and it must be intelligent. i would not like complementarity to become an absolute in which the european union becomes the red cross of an armed force that is nato. the european union must retain military capabilities, must retain military ambitions and must retain ambition in the area of csdp, as the franco-german-polish tripartite letter has recalled.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, we are only a few hours away from the moment when ouattara's supporters will be marching on the government and the ivorian broadcaster, and i want to express my concern here, because the risks of clashes and confrontation are obviously very high and very real. our first responsibility tonight is to call for calm and dialogue. but it is also the responsibility of the main ivorian leaders. the incumbent and the president-elect must do everything to prevent a new outbreak of violence in a country that has suffered too much for years. that's the first message. secondly, from the very beginning, the international community, europe of course, but also the african union, have spoken with one voice. they mobilized to enforce the ballot. this pressure must continue and the sanctions provided for must be applied. laurent gbagbo must admit defeat. alassane ouattara must work tirelessly to reconcile his people. we must not let up until the situation is stabilized. in advance, madam high representative, i thank you for bringing these messages, especially tonight.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all concerned by the serious crisis currently reigning in côte d'ivoire. it is clear that the decision of the constitutional council of that country to challenge, in violation of the electoral code, the results of the elections officially proclaimed by the independent electoral commission is unanimously condemned by the international community. the european union, the un, the african union, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, ecowas and, certainly soon, the european parliament, are calling for the official proclamation of the election results and the installation of the new president of the republic, as recognized by the independent electoral commission, which, i would remind you, is a un-approved body. all the political groups in the european parliament have agreed on these essential points in a joint declaration. they also called for an end to any escalation of tensions in the country, which could lead to civil war, which would be a human, social and economic disaster for côte d'ivoire, which must of course be avoided at all costs.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, elections have just been held in côte d'ivoire. the international community had tolerated them being pushed back by the regime of laurent gbagbo year after year. these successive postponements had alerted a number of us to the difficulties we are facing today but we hoped deep down that the democratic spirit would prevail in a country that has suffered too much from fruitless and unacceptable confrontations, especially around the notion of ivory. the international community, and in particular the european union, around catherine ashton and through my colleague preda, has mobilised, and this is to be welcomed, so that these elections can take place under the best possible conditions, in a transparent manner and without violence. the election campaign gave us hope that the result would be accepted by all parties, given the calm and respect between the candidates. unfortunately, today the democratically elected result is being denied by the outgoing president. i therefore join my colleagues in calling on mr gbagbo, through the vote tomorrow, to admit that what appears to him to be a counter-coup or a plot is in reality only the will of the majority of his fellow citizens. he cannot in any way cling to power without calling into question a part of his own militant history which was to appear, while he was resident in europe, as a man who brought about the newfound freedom and democracy in his country. the un representative in côte d'ivoire courageously took up his role and announced the results of the vote. i also wish to point out, as first vice-president of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly, that our assembly adopted a declaration on 3 december in kinshasa strongly condemning the decision of the constitutional council of côte d'ivoire to invalidate the results. this statement is in addition to the clear and unambiguous position taken by the leaders of the member countries of the sadc and the african union. mr gbagbo's regime is not wanted by his fellow citizens, supported by his neighbours or accepted by the international community. it is therefore time for the european union to recognize the victory of alassane ouattara, the democratically elected president of côte d'ivoire, who must be able to assume the responsibility entrusted to him by his people as soon as possible. i conclude, madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, by asking that the european union play its part by using the means at its disposal to convince mr laurent gbagbo and his illegitimate government that the game is over. we will not allow his obstinacy to lead côte d'ivoire into chaos.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work, but also, and above all, on her attention. this report, although it seems to be of minor importance in the context of our parliament, seems to me to be capable of initiating genuine community action. it's the little streams that make the big rivers. the committee on culture and education voted in favour of maintaining the name 'european heritage label', and the epp particularly wanted to do so, because this initiative is not limited to the period of the history of the european union, but is concerned with the great idea of europe, a much older concept. the label is a powerful lever which must above all promote european identity through its cultural diversity. the label should not be seen as a mere transformation of the intergovernmental initiative but as a genuine tool which, based on experience, will bring real added value both through the impetus it can give to the promotion of european values by states or local authorities and at the level of knowledge of these values by citizens. its aim is to strengthen the sense of belonging to europe among european citizens and to contribute to the formation of a common conscience. at a time when the acceptance of the european idea by public opinion remains a great challenge we must face, europe also needs symbols that build it and strengthen it on a daily basis, because it would seem, alas, that european identity is a self-evident fact that has yet to be invented.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with some emotion that i would like to thank you warmly on behalf of my colleagues britta thomsen, liz lynne, ilda figueiredo and jacek protasiewicz for your support of declaration no 61. as the european commission presents today its flagship initiative, a european platform against poverty and exclusion, this declaration is a strong message from parliament to the european commission and the member states. the time for sweet talk is over. now is the time to act. concrete proposals can be put in place. let us be vigilant by 2015 so that no one sleeps on the streets. i wish you all a happy holiday and we will start the year well. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, on behalf of my three colleagues, mr pietikäinen and mr sârbu, and mr davies, i would like to thank the 410 members of the european parliament who signed the written declaration we tabled calling for stronger regulations on the protection of sharks. this fragile species, like many others, is subject to a veritable slaughter at sea as a result of the practice of cutting off the fins, finning, and discarding the carcasses into the sea after this mutilation. i thank you for signing this declaration en masse. this is a strong signal to the commission to strengthen the regulations for the protection of this species. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, our group is calling for the first word of the last sentence of paragraph 30 to be changed, and for 'welcome' to be replaced by 'notes'.
in writing. in 2007, several european states joined forces to create a european heritage label . the aim of this initiative is to strengthen the sense of european citizens of belonging to a common european identity and to foster their sense of belonging to a common cultural space , by selecting a number of outstanding sites across the continent. in 2008, the council of the european union sent the commission conclusions inviting it to submit a legislative proposal which, like the european capitals, would make this intergovernmental initiative a true label of the european union. following the council's instructions, the commission then launched an impact assessment and a public consultation. at the end of this consultation, the commission issued a proposal for a decision establishing a european union action for the european heritage label. i supported this text.
in writing. the youth in action programme aims to develop and support cooperation in the field of youth in the european union. it aims to encourage the participation of young people in public life, particularly the most disadvantaged and disabled, and their spirit of initiative, enterprise and creativity. the lifelong learning programme contributes to the development of the union as a knowledge society in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. supporting and complementing the action of the member states, it aims to promote exchanges, cooperation and mobility between education and training systems within the community, so that they become a world-class reference. switzerland, which is not part of the european union, does not participate in these actions. on the contrary, i believe that our swiss neighbours should be involved in these policies, with a view to an open union. that is why i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which includes switzerland in these important actions.
in writing. traditionally, the december plenary session is partly devoted to human rights. the formal highlights of the session included the presentation of the sakharov prize and the adoption of the resolution on parliament's annual report on human rights in the world and the union's policy on the matter. one of the union's international commitments is to promote democracy and fundamental rights throughout the world. this year's report notes that serious violations in this area persist and are aggravated by the economic crisis, climate change, new technologies and the fight against terrorism. it recommends that the objectives of the lisbon treaty be implemented, in particular through the new european external action service. the rapporteur, my colleague laima andrikienė, said: 'the priority of a coherent european foreign policy must be the promotion of democracy and human rights'.
in writing. the situation in afghanistan remains a matter of concern. almost a decade after the western coalition ousted the taliban from power, peace and prosperity are still far from the everyday lives of afghans. the strategy applied for years in the country is wrong and it must be changed. the union must state its position on the subject and acknowledge the failure of us military policy in the region. our troops are sinking, and no hope of escape seems possible under these conditions. for these reasons, i supported the parliament's resolution calling for a new strategy for afghanistan. the system we have had up to now must be changed. corruption and waste must be tackled if international aid is to play its part. it is through action in the civil sphere that peace will return. the coalition needs to be more stringent in controlling these funds. but we must stop interfering in afghan affairs. the afghan government must be free to find its modus vivendi with all components of afghan society. the road to development is still long, and we must not rush into these fragile balances.
in writing. this report paints a disastrous picture of the consequences of a war waged by nato with the complicity and support of the eu in afghanistan. it is regrettable that he has not denounced this war itself and is hesitating between keeping ottoman military forces in place and their necessary withdrawal. however, in view of all the important criticisms contained in the text, i shall abstain.
in writing. in the architecture of the european union, the role of the commission is similar to that of a government in a classical state. the commission has the legislative initiative but also the power to implement regulations, directives and decisions. the commission can therefore be regarded as the executive branch of the union. it has a derived power which enables it to adopt acts implementing acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. just as regulations and circulars in france must respect the laws which frame them, the commission's implementing acts are not autonomous in relation to european laws. however, it is possible that, in the exercise of that entirely natural implementing power, the commission may be led, most often without necessarily seeking to do so, to exceed its prerogatives. in a democratic spirit, it is for the other institutions of the union to monitor the commission's activities, so that the distribution of powers is respected. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which lays down the general principles for the control of the commission's implementing powers by the member states.
in writing. the commission's proposal is a legitimate attack on democracy. this report merely amends it without ever denouncing it. the commission is the only group of civil servants in the world which is not controlled by its government (the council). i object to this new authoritarian drift.
in writing. on thursday 16 december, the heads of state and government agreed to continue the financial solidarity mechanisms that have been set up over the last few months to deal with the crisis. the aim is to ensure the stability of the euro as a whole in the event of difficulties for one or more euro-area member states. however, the granting of financial assistance will remain subject to strict conditionality, which i believe is necessary. like parliament's resolution, i welcome this commitment by the states, which is a sign of genuine european solidarity. the best response to the markets today is unfailing solidarity.
in writing. this report endorses the establishment of the european financial stability mechanism and the social bloodletting it entails. it wants it to be in line with imf standards and to ensure that national budgets are controlled by the european commission. i am voting against and denouncing this text.
in writing. for many years, côte d'ivoire has been the archetype of successful decolonisation. the country, which has been a good student of its newfound independence, experienced considerable development in the 1970s and 1980s. unfortunately, a latent political crisis is gradually undermining the ivorian state. the last presidential elections brought the opposition alassane ouattara to power. the incumbent president, laurent gbagbo, refused to step down. the country has since descended into an incredible confusion. two governments are vying for power, and serious incidents have claimed the lives of supporters on both sides. i voted for the european parliament resolution calling on mr gbagbo to respect the choice of the ballot box and to immediately make way for his legitimate successor. the text also supports the action of the african union which is currently putting pressure on the country to return to democratic order.
in writing. just over a decade ago, the european union adopted a directive to protect laying hens from the disastrous farming conditions in which too many farms kept them. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the provisions of the directive to the processing of agricultural products. it was to be implemented by 2012. with two years to go, many farms are far from meeting the new standards. this parliament resolution calls on the commission to be firm on this issue. it welcomed the consultation of industry professionals initiated by the commission but urged it to refuse the additional time requested by some operators. it is already ten years since the directive was adopted.
in writing. from 1 january 2012, eggs laid by hens reared in battery-raised hens of less than 550 cm2 shall no longer be marketed. but many factory farms still fall short of standards. a risk of egg shortages and consumer price increases could arise if some member states are not prepared to comply with the ban. this would also lead to an increase in imports of eggs from third countries, which do not always comply with european health standards. that is why parliament is sounding the alarm. producers and member states are reminded to act as quickly as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. producers who have invested in compliance and free range poultry farmers must be able to enjoy fair competition within the european union.
author. - mr president, malaysia is one of those countries for which cooperation with the european union, although recent and relatively modest, appears to be rather positive. this is particularly true in economic matters, of course, but also in social matters, such as education, women's rights and the rights of the most vulnerable. however, the situation is far from idyllic when it comes to democracy and human rights. there are some worrying signs. the situation we are discussing today is a sad illustration of this. while malaysia has signed a number of international conventions, including the universal declaration of human rights, acedaw and cide, it continues to refuse to sign others, including the international convention against torture. malaysia is one of the countries that imposes the death penalty, and it is even mandatory for drug trafficking convictions. corporal punishment is common and is applied to all: men, women - especially those accused of illicit sex - and even children, for schoolchildren guilty of serious disobedience. worse, for those sentenced to such sentences, these sentences are carried out with the help of doctors, in defiance of their medical ethics, the latter being responsible for resuscitating the condemned before they serve the full sentence. worse still, in recent years the malaysian parliament has expanded the list of criminal offenses that can be punished with the use of the cane. there are now more than 60 of them, including illegal entry. and since 2002, when this offence was created, thousands of refugees have been subjected to this punishment, this torture. the malaysian government must stop this practice. as the eu's dialogue with malaysia seems to be bearing fruit, should the eu not use all the persuasive means it can to push malaysia forward in this area?
author. - mr president, uganda is indeed one of those african states where homosexuality is still severely repressed. it is one of the most striking and most severe in this respect, since uganda, under the leadership of the fundamentalist evangelicals of the united states, with whom the ugandan head of state is a close associate, has embarked on a veritable crusade against homosexuals. countless numbers are persecuted and tortured for this reason alone. muslims and christians have come together - a first in this country - to denounce this abomination. seventy-year-old anglican bishop christopher senyonjo was denied his bishopric by his hierarchy for being one of the few who took a stand in favor of homosexuals. the bill already mentioned may indeed reappear at any time. it even punishes with death homosexuals suspected of being hiv positive or suspected of having sex with minors. he's calling for a report. the local tabloid rolling stone, which has nothing to do with the magazine of the same name, did publish lists with the names and addresses of gay leaders under a foul headline: "hang 'em!" the publication of this leaflet was temporarily banned, but the damage was done, as has already been pointed out. homosexuality in africa is very often experienced as a western evil, which causes africa to lose its ancestral values. in this country, ngos say there are 500,000 gays out of a population of 32 million. many people are applying for asylum in european countries. could we at least do everything possible to ensure that these requests are dealt with with special consideration, as should be the case for all those who are victims of oppression and torture?
