mr president, the current focus of global politics is the future of our planet. yet, amidst discussions about an increase in world population, the european union has failed ever to give clear direction on concerns that surround migration. instead, measures to promote the movement of people are promoted with the usual justifications of filling brain drains and boosting economies. according to eu figures, 1.7 million european migrants came to the uk last year: nearly double the number five years ago. just before christmas, serbia applied for eu membership, and croatia could join as soon as 2012. we have yet to feel the full impact of the freedom of movement for workers enshrined in the treaty of rome. in the case of the 10 countries which joined the eu in 2004 – among them poland, the czech republic and latvia – the door is not fully open until next year. in the case of bulgaria and romania, it is 2014. given that the living standards in both countries are very low, i can only imagine that this will have a significant impact on the more developed member states. the rest of europe may look on critically when we demand vetoes on immigration policy. the lisbon treaty gives the eu almost as much power over such issues as the cap gives to our agricultural policy, and it would be totally irresponsible to ignore the impact of all the... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, two months ago my constituency was hit by disastrous floods. deceitfully blamed on climate change, the real reason for the devastation of the town of cockermouth was the eu-imposed privatisation/theft of public services. the proper management of reservoirs has been replaced by cost-cutting negligence by united utilities, leading to safety margins being ignored and a panic-stricken decision to open sluice gates and release a man-made deluge on the town. the fact that only one brave man died in the floods was little short of miraculous, but such disasters will increase in frequency as more and more public services are looted by greedy corporations. finally, my constituents are shocked that they will not receive a penny from the eu solidarity fund, because the uk cannot apply unless the damage exceeds eur 3 billion. since britain is not in an earthquake zone, it is almost impossible to conceive of a disaster which would trigger such a payment, so british taxpayers – who contribute a disproportionate amount to the funds – have no realistic chance of benefiting from it. so much for solidarity. we want our money back!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, our thoughts today are with the people of haiti in their tragedy, and i am sure all members will want to send their condolences to the people of haiti. it is a tragedy but, as gay mitchell has said, it is a tragedy in a country where 75% of people already live below the poverty line. as we look to the future, that is something we really need to be looking at. the public has responded magnificently to the challenge of helping haiti. in the uk alone, gbp 30 million has been raised in just a few days – from the public, during the financial crisis – so we know that the public is behind us in our efforts to raise funds for haiti. high representative, i want to thank you for the work you have done in pulling together a quick eu response on this matter. we learned at the time of the tsunami that, in fact, good coordination is as important as the actual funds we put on the ground. it is not about which flag goes on the aid, it is about getting the aid out there, working with the united nations to get it delivered. looking to the longer term, i am pleased that there will be an international conference on haiti. i think we need to look at the whole issue of haiti, about its outstanding debt and i hope the debt problems of haiti will be on the agenda at the international conference. haiti owes usd 890 million to the international creditors and a large part of that is to the imf. the imf has given haiti a usd 100 million loan. can we convert that into a grant? there is no point impoverishing this country for another 100 years. so i hope you will put that on the agenda of the imf meeting. i hope as well that we will address other issues, and i think you are right that the issue of the border with the dominican republic is equally important. so, thank you once again for your efforts, and i hope the whole house will work hard to find a good coordinated effort.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, our hearts and minds go out to the people of haiti in their hour of suffering. i commend baroness ashton and karel de gucht for what they have already said has happened and is being done. there is no question that there will be funds coming. i was present at the tsunami which hit sri lanka and then later indonesia. i have witnessed earthquakes in turkey. i watched what happened in china. every time one of these things happens we are caught short, not with water purification tablets or tents or clean water but with infrastructure. we say, oh, the infrastructure is destroyed. of course it is destroyed. we need to be able to supply very rapidly an emergency infrastructure. how can this happen? what about an aircraft carrier? it has electricity, it has nuclear power, it has generators for water purification and it has helicopters. could we set up a global rescue operation, ready to go at a moment’s notice, that can provide makeshift harbours, temporary shelters and all the infrastructure that gets destroyed? we need to think afresh as to how to save lives immediately afterwards.
mr president, the horror of haiti is shocking. it is only human to feel compassion for the innocent victims of the natural disaster there. all of us here are well paid and can afford to give. i will give my attendance allowance for today if every british mep will do the same. however, with their taxes, our constituents cannot afford your generosity. globalism has destroyed our industries. the banks have ruined our economies. eu red tape is strangling our entrepreneurs and the carbon-tax scam is plunging millions into deadly fuel poverty. the death toll in haiti is shocking, but this winter more than 50 000 pensioners in britain alone will die premature deaths because of the cold and the cost of heating. across europe, the death toll will run into hundreds of thousands, but, because this truth shames the political elite and because it highlights the inconvenient truth of global cooling, this scandal will be buried as quietly as are our elderly dead. hundreds of thousands of our own people are dying because of government neglect and eu cold taxes, yet you insist on throwing other people’s money at a disaster in somebody else’s back yard. that is not compassion: that is stinking hypocrisy. i know this place is uneasy with our christian heritage, but as always our bible reveals an eternal truth that most here would rather ignore – first book of timothy, 5:8: ‘but if any provide not for his own, and especially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith and is worse than an infidel.’
mr president, i have to say there are people who do, and there are people who talk. i therefore want to congratulate the council, the commission and the high representative on the action that they have taken. none of this was foreseeable. we are looking at something that was unimaginable. i have sat here and listened to cheap political points being made against the high representative, against the member states and against the commission via the notion that somehow, because it is an american hand rescuing someone from the rubble and saving a life, that you should brush that hand away and say ‘no neocolonialism’ and that somehow, by attacking haiti itself, you make the lives of the people who are suffering there better. shame on you. let us make sure that we coordinate. give the coordination over to the americans – if it saves lives, it saves lives. forget the political rhetoric. congratulations on committing this amount of money. congratulations, baroness ashton, on not playing to the audience and using up air space to get into haiti just to go there and show that you are there. what does that do? it does absolutely nothing. therefore, angry on behalf of those people who want rescuing, let us coordinate with the americans. let us kick the butt of the united nations so that it delivers aid, and let us stop making cheap political points. (applause)
mr president, i think all our thoughts have been expressed and they have to go out to those who have lost their lives: the people of the united nations, the people of haiti itself and the people who are suffering although they are still alive. what we need is a good, strong coordinated effort and nothing – but nothing – should get in the way of that. can i say that i welcome the commitment that we have made in europe to the people of haiti. i hope we follow that through because i was touched – and it is quite right – what happens in two weeks’ time when they cease to be part of the media and they cease to be part of the news? what are these people going to do then? yes, there is a clear need to rebuild haiti, both in the short and long term, but most important now is to get the aid distribution to the suffering people on the ground, the people who are hurting. i have to say that i agree totally with the comments of mr cashman earlier on. this is too important to score cheap political points.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, president ahmadinejad’s ruthless ambition to develop nuclear weapons represents, in my view, the gravest threat to world peace today. only through a united and coordinated approach will the eu’s diplomacy eventually succeed. renewed sanctions must now be targeted and must be extremely damaging to the regime in tehran. but, equally, we should recognise that iran’s people and the iranian regime are not the same thing. since ahmadinejad stole the presidential election last year, we have seen many dissidents and brave young protestors take to the streets. these people need our support because they identify with our values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. indeed, such is the desperation in iran that opposition leader mir hossain musavi, hardly known to be a democrat in the past, has said he is prepared to sacrifice his own life for the future good of his own country. meanwhile, outrageous human rights abuses continue unabated as juveniles and homosexuals are executed routinely. we meps in this house long to see a democratic and free iran, which no longer exports terrorism via hamas and hezbollah, and takes its rightful place in the international community. the eu should redouble its efforts to expedite that process in every way possible.
mr president, i want to agree with tunne kelam and mr alvaro. the day of dialogue and engagement with iran has long since passed. people are dying in the streets almost every day in protests against this fascist regime. only yesterday, as you have heard, a kangaroo court in tehran called for the death penalty against five protesters arrested during the ashura riots on 27 december. enough is enough. no more talk; no more appeasement. we need tough sanctions. that is the only way that we will show the ordinary people of iran that we back their protests.
i hold no brief for the regime of the ayatollahs in iran or for its anti-democratic stances. but i would say two things: one is that there is repression of non-violent freedom of speech even in europe and even among eu members. furthermore, the activities in iran and the events in iran are being used quite cynically by the united states and its allies to foment a war movement against iran, and i think that response would be entirely disproportionate.
mr president, before we break, i would just like to give a point of information. baroness ashton, you were talking about the iran delegation. the delegation was due to go to iran from 8-10 january, but that delegation visit was cancelled. in fact it was cancelled by the iranian authorities. many of us pressed for the delegation visit to be cancelled earlier than that – though in fact the chairman of the delegation took no notice of us – in the light of the testing of long-range missiles, the shooting of demonstrators and all the other disturbances that took place over the christmas period. as a point of information, therefore, that delegation visit has been cancelled, and that action should actually have been taken earlier in parliament to cancel it.
madam president, i welcome today’s debate in advance of next week’s foreign affairs council and the london conference called by gordon brown. our attention may have been generated by the attempted airline bomber. today i also appeal for international attention to address efforts to free the british engineer, anthony s., and five other european hostages, who worked at a local hospital in yemen and who remain kidnapped since last june. but our future work should recognise internal, not just external, needs in relation to yemen. to combat levels of malnutrition that exceed some sub-saharan african countries, such as niger, and violations of human rights, as mrs andrikienė has just said, in a country which inflicts the 11th highest number of executions in the world, including children. so that, as an international community, we do not wait for the terrorists to move in before we begin to address issues of capacity, governance and development in fragile states in our world. i welcome the high representative’s announcement today on aid and ask her to ensure that next week’s meetings address actual commitments of aid money to yemen, from all participants, at a time when the un’s consolidated appeal for the country has generated less than 1% of the funds needed. like mrs brantner, that the meetings pursue a ceasefire, and perhaps a peace conference, on the latest round of fighting with the houthis in the north and to ensure humanitarian access to the region. to ensure the country’s oil revenue should be invested in economic and social development for the country’s people. that europe should cooperate in finding lasting solutions for yemeni prisoners, the largest contingent left in guantánamo bay. but i do hope the high representative will explore the potential for a joint eu-gulf cooperation council csdp project on security sector training in yemen, in which our efforts are critically important in so many countries. finally, the bin ladens may come from the village of al-rubat in yemen, but it is the absence of international engagement which has allowed too many of the country’s young people to be radicalised in his name. it is international engagement which now must take place.
madam president, unfortunately yemen long ago developed the characteristics of a terrorist incubator and not enough attention has been paid to this over the years. conflict, lawlessness and corruption are deeply embedded. it is worth recalling, by the way, that the reason that british troops intervened in yemen in the early 19th century was to put an end to piracy in the gulf of aden and they were very successful for over a century. in more recent years, of course, yemen has both developed as a terrorist incubator, where terrorist acts have taken place, and exported terrorism to other countries. terrorist groups are adept at exploiting the possibilities provided by failed states. we need to help counter this. at the moment, the uk is disproportionately providing assistance. i hope that the london conference will encourage other countries to do more, including the european union, and, i agree, other regional states. of course we cannot hope to snuff out terrorism wherever it breeds, and that means we must improve the security of our own countries and have more effective controls on our own borders. i doubt that the eu is motivated properly on this, so each of our own countries needs to put its house in order.
madam president, as the fictional lady bracknell might have said, to make one major mistake in the muslim world is unfortunate, but to make two sounds like carelessness. to make three or more is an indication of stupidity, insanity or deliberate mischief-making. yemen is now being called the new afghanistan. us troops are already being deployed there as advisers. how long before they and their allies, including britain, are deploying ground troops there against al qa’ida? what should the west in fact be doing to prevent the threat? first of all, it should stop wars in muslim countries that are killing western troops, killing civilians and radicalising young muslims at home and abroad. it should bring the troops home to work on homeland security to protect our populations and infrastructures. it should adopt a genuinely neutral policy towards the middle east and abandon the partisan policy of the us, and it should stop immigration from muslim countries and encourage radical muslims in the west to see that they would be much happier living among their own co-religionists.
madam president, we debated earlier the deteriorating human rights situation and brutal fascist regime in iran. we heard in that debate how the mullahs have exported terrorism to palestine and lebanon, and how now they are exporting their vile brand of terror to yemen. in late october, yemeni officials reported that they had intercepted a vessel laden with weapons from iran. they arrested five iranian instructors. the weapons and the instructors were destined for the houthi rebels. iran is a past master at fighting wars by proxy; it did so in both palestine and lebanon. now it wishes to foment a proxy regional conflict with sunni-dominated saudi arabia. i would say to baroness ashton that if she deals decisively with iran she will cut out much of the malignant cancer that threatens the middle east.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, can i thank the high representative, baroness ashton, for her statement. i do think it is relevant to mention that the debate we are having tonight is taking place against the backdrop of the chilcot inquiry in the uk into the illegal war on iraq and what lessons should be learned from that, and a lot of information is coming to light which confirms what many of us believed at the time of the invasion: that the reason for the war was regime change and control of resources and not the threat of weapons of mass destruction. and, in terms of long-term planning for a post-war iraq, words like ‘dire’, ‘deeply flawed’ and ‘woefully thin’ are being used by senior diplomats and military officers in their evidence to the inquiry, so it is little wonder that we are now seeing severe consequences of the action. baroness ashton said that some progress has been made, and of course it has, but there are severe problems still. there is no legislation to protect minorities in iraq. there is a continuing major refugee problem. trade unionists, journalists, women politicians and human rights activists have disappeared or have been killed. suicide attacks continue. with elections due on 7 march, the iraqi election commission last week, as my colleague mentioned, barred almost 500 candidates, mainly sunni politicians, from standing. they are already under-represented in the iraqi parliament and this is certain to lead to more tension and instability. last november the eu presidency urged the government of iraq to suspend the death penalty and abolish it altogether, but 900 people are still on death row in iraq and death sentences are handed out often following unfair trials, some lasting only a few minutes. the eu has a responsibility to help build democracy and ensure respect for human rights, and the framework for engagement with iraq sets out three priorities to help build basic services like health and education, to enhance the rule of law and to support the human rights commission. the partnership and cooperation agreement will be the basis for future work, but we must demand immediate action on issues like the abolition of the death penalty, on protecting vulnerable and targeted groups and on strengthening democracy and human rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, baroness ashton, the elections will not be free and fair in iraq. ten days ago the justice and accountability commission decided to ban saleh al-mutlaq, leader of the parliamentary national dialogue front and a member of the iraqi parliament for the past four years. he has been banned from participating in the forthcoming elections. i think it was no coincidence that this outrageous ban, together with the banning of over 500 further secular iraqi politicians, was announced on the very day manouchehr mottaki, iran’s odious foreign minister, was visiting baghdad. saleh al-mutlaq has been an outspoken critic of iranian meddling in iraq, and now the mullahs have insisted on his removal from the election. i am relieved that us vice-president, joe biden, has already protested about this ban, and i hope, baroness ashton, that you will do likewise. unless dr al-mutlaq and the others are reinstated, we must not, and cannot, recognise the legitimacy of this election.
the next item is the report by eva joly, on behalf of the committee on development, on the second revision of the acp-eu partnership agreement (cotonou agreement) (2009/2165(ini)) (a7-0086/2009).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we go on and on and on. we keep talking about alleviating poverty. this is the 10th edf. we have pumped about eur 350 billion into so-called alleviating poverty when we know that poverty has increased. why is it that we have policies and programmes in our acp countries that we never had in our own european history? the provinces of brussels or brabant did not get richer and eliminate poverty by creating what we are trying to do in the acp countries. we created wealth in europe by creating wealth. how do we create wealth in the acp countries? mrs joly has very interestingly identified that there is a flight of capital. she says that eight times what we put into those countries goes out. why is that capital not employed in those countries? why are we not creating the conditions for that capital to stay at home to create jobs and make wealth? until we answer these questions, we are wasting our taxpayers’ money without actually eliminating one person from being poor.
mr president, brevity is the source of wit. congratulations, madame joly; congratulations, commissioner. parliament puts at its heart in these negotiations reinforcing the principle of non-negotiable human rights clauses and sanctions for failure to respect such clauses, inter alia with regard to discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation, and towards people living with aids and hiv. i am told, commissioner, that some member states do not want this amendment, but for parliament it is vital. human rights, as you well know, are often far too eroded, and this erosion is primarily for party political advantage. the defence of fundamental rights is at the heart of the european union, and so it should therefore be at the heart and the centre of our relations with all acp countries. commissioner, this is probably the last time you will appear before us in your present portfolio, so can i please say a warm thank you on behalf of parliament. you have been a staunch defender of human rights and the values of the eu, and i wish you well in your new portfolio. thank you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 20 january 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on procedural rights in criminal proceedings by sarah ludford, elena oana antonescu, carmen romero lópez, heidi hautala and rui tavares, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-0155/2009 – b7-0343/2009),– the oral question to the commission on procedural rights in criminal proceedings, by sarah ludford, elena oana antonescu, carmen romero lópez, heidi hautala and rui tavares, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, (o-0156/2009 – b7-0344/2009).
author. – mr president, i frankly and fully acknowledge that these two oral questions tabled on 1 december last year have been overtaken by events, but this debate is still worthwhile to acknowledge that the issue of procedural rights is fully back on the table after a regrettable absence of several years and to stress the urgency and priority of this programme. it has been a consistent complaint of the european parliament for the last decade that procedural safeguards and defendants’ rights have not received the same attention, let alone action, as moves to enhance the speed and efficiency of investigations and of prosecutions. we have supported the latter because, then, more criminals get caught. those who reject in principle the european arrest warrant are the apologists for mafia criminals and absconding robbers, rapists and terrorists. but it is question of balance and getting ‘european arrest warrant plus’, and thus justice all round, through procedural guarantees to accompany simplified cross-border prosecutions. opponents of the european arrest warrant of course do not want any eu action on rights either; they just want ‘european arrest warrant minus’. but the application of the european arrest warrant without proper procedural guarantees has in some cases led to the denial of justice, because mutual recognition has not been accompanied by a solid basis for mutual trust. one of those cases is my own constituent andrew symeou. andrew has been in prison in greece for six months awaiting trial on a manslaughter charge which seems to be based on mistaken identity and, i am afraid to say, police brutality to witnesses, and i believe the european arrest warrant has been misused. when it was agreed upon in 2002, it was with the understanding from all sides that this measure, which would have the effect of eu citizens standing trial and being held in prison in another member state, would be swiftly followed by measures guaranteeing their fair trial rights and guaranteeing there would be no miscarriages of justice. that promise was betrayed by member states in failing to accept the commission’s 2004 proposal for a reasonably wide framework decision on procedural rights, and now a piecemeal approach is the best we can get. i am grateful that it was relaunched by the swedish presidency, but it is only a road map on a step-by-step basis. we need to see the glass is half full and be optimistic, although i regret that the council is, worryingly, only promising to consider, not to legislate on, euro-bail, which would have helped andrew symeou, who has been explicitly refused bail because he is a foreigner. judges are currently asked to enforce the judgments and orders of courts in other member states without examining the facts, and they will be subject to increasing criticism and public unease if there is no eu-wide compliance with minimal procedural safeguards and defence rights for criminal investigations and prosecutions. it is not just individual citizens who fear poor guarantees of rights; this also deters judges, but also police and prosecutors, from working together, too. i happen to believe that the human rights assurance in european arrest warrants should be an explicit condition of extradition, even if the commission hates that. thanks to liberal democrats, the uk legislation implementing the measure says that the court must be satisfied there is no breach of the european convention on human rights. puzzlingly, british courts seem shy of invoking this clause to block surrender. now if all member states genuinely observed their obligations under the echr there might be no need for eu measures. the problem is not the absence of standards but the absence of practical respect, and many member states find themselves before the strasbourg court for this reason. considering that the treaty on european union and now the tfeu obliges eu states to respect the echr, this is shameful and unacceptable. so we do need an eu mechanism for enforcement, which from now on will be provided by commission infringement competence and european court of justice supervision. so eu measures need both to be consistent with the echr and not conflict with or undermine it, and at the same time to add value in the sense of strengthening practical implementation. i hope the commission and council agree that the standard of directives guaranteeing fundamental rights should be high. the member state initiative on interpretation and translation, proposing the text which the council agreed on last october, is less ambitious than the commission text and needs improving. so we are concerned that the first measure does not demonstrate the highest standards. i hope we will be more ambitious and set a precedent for the next stages in building up procedural rights, which after interpretation and translation are followed by other measures like legal advice, right to information, right to communicate with consular authorities and so on. so i want reassurance from the council and commission that measures in the road map will be rolled out fast enough to keep up the momentum towards a genuine achievement of fair trial rights, long overdue.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this house proposed the creation of the european arrest warrant on 6 september 2001. our proposal would still be on a shelf gathering dust if it had not been for the events in new york five days later. mr bin laden helped make it a reality, and it was to me that fell the honour of piloting the measure through the house. this house insisted at the time that it should be accompanied by minimum procedural guarantees in criminal legal proceedings. the commission made its proposals in 2002 and undertook to see speedy action. so why is it that until recently this has been stuck in the council’s in-tray? why has the commission not been waging war to see all of its proposals approved, and not have them approved separately? the european arrest warrant has replaced extradition. it has substantially cut the time needed for surrender. it has encouraged direct contact between member states’ judicial authorities. it has ruled out decisions based on political expediency to the extent that member states surrender their own nationals. it has vastly enhanced the rule of law on our continent, but the european arrest warrant relies on mutual trust, and there are too many cases where such trust is called into question by our citizens. two of my constituents are currently in detention in hungary awaiting trial. though their extradition was requested over a year ago, and though they have been there for two months, they have not yet been indicted and their trial may yet be months away. one has lost his job and his family’s main source of income. both are deprived of the company of loved ones. and yet both may be innocent of the crimes of which they are charged. cases like this give european judicial cooperation a bad name. they pour shame on the inaction of governments in council. the authors of this oral question are right: they require europe’s urgent attention. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
thank you, mr watson. i was going to call you the ‘godfather’ of the european arrest warrant, but i thought it could be misunderstood.
mr watson, you mention bin laden and 9/11 as being the justification paving the way for the adoption of the european arrest warrant. is it your contention therefore that the european arrest warrant should be used only against terrorists and murderers and in cases of serious violent crimes?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, with permission i did not give mr bin laden as the justification; i said he helped us to speed it up. it was never intended solely to cover terrorist crimes; it was intended to cover all serious crimes. those who oppose its use are those who, effectively, oppose the rule of law on our continent and the protection that the european arrest warrant gives to our citizens.
on behalf of the efd group. – i speak tonight because, as has been mentioned, two constituents – michael turner and jason mcgoldrick – are imprisoned in unit 2 of the central budapest jail in hungary. they have been imprisoned since 3 november and they are yet to be tried. there is, in fact, no trial date. the terms of imprisonment are burdensome. they are separated and have no contact with each other. they share a small cell with three other prisoners. they are confined to their cells 23 hours a day. they are permitted three telephone calls and one shower a week. they are allowed one family visit per month. in short, they are isolated. the language barrier makes the isolation worse. they are accused of a white-collar crime. they are not murderers or terrorists. and they are imprisoned only because of the european arrest warrant. the european arrest warrant swept away, at a stroke, the safeguards against arrest established in britain over a thousand years. well may you shake your head, mr watson: it would be better if you apologised. mistaken identity and identity theft mean that what has happened to jason and michael can now also happen to any british citizen at any time. the labour party, the liberal democrats and the conservative party all voted in favour of a european arrest warrant. to restate zola, ‘j’accuse’ – i accuse – the parties of the british political establishment: their support for the european arrest warrant has put everyone in britain at risk of random arrest.
the committee calls for the council to continue work in introducing common european procedural rights in criminal matters. an existing common procedure in the form of the european arrest warrant has removed the centuries-old safeguards against unjust arrest and imprisonment that the english used to enjoy. this is not an academic argument. the eaw is destroying innocent people’s lives. my constituent andrew symeou is just one of a growing number of people extradited without an english court having the power to consider the prima facie evidence against them and to prevent unjust extradition. extradition has now been reduced to a mere bureaucratic formality. mr symeou has been held for six months in the notorious korydallos prison without bail or prospect of trial. the political cynicism of the british liberal democrats is truly breathtaking. they now cry crocodile tears in london over mr symeou’s fate despite having been materially responsible for the common procedures that caused it and while here they work for more of the same legislation. the common procedures are about lowering european legal standards and not raising them. let me make a suggestion. if you want higher standards in european criminal proceedings, then adopt habeas corpus, trial by jury and the main provisions of magna carta and the bill of rights 1689 as the common european standards.
thank you, commissioner. i am sure there are many outside this chamber who would like to endorse the remarks of carlos coelho in thanking you for your dedication and application as a commissioner over this period. thank you so much. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on – the oral question to the council on preventing trafficking in human beings, by anna hedh and edit bauer on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-0148/2009 – b7-0341/2009), and– the oral question to the commission on trafficking in human beings, by anna hedh and edit bauer on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-0149/2009 – b7-0342/2009),
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the achievement of mrs hedh and mrs bauer today, although speaking at a very late hour, as mrs hedh said, is to come here tonight and hear the outgoing commissioner, mr barrot, and the new spanish presidency use words like ‘determined’ and ‘ambitious’ for the commissioner. it is worth waiting until this late hour to hear it, because there are many people in this chamber today, including the authors, who understand the complexity of this brutal modern-day phenomenon, but also understand that the eu is expected by its citizens to tackle this modern-day scourge. mr barrot talked about the need for new legislation. we hope we will see the commission proposal very soon. this morning at the hearing of commissioner-designate mrs malmström we also saw a positive response to our proposal for an eu anti-trafficking coordinator. if you start to put together the various pieces of this puzzle, at least we are moving forward, but the sheer scale of the problem described by anna hedh means that we really have to turn words into action. with trafficking being such a complex phenomenon, touching on so many different areas such as forced labour, organised crime, sexual exploitation and child abuse, our response must be multi-pronged and holistic. mr barrot listed many of the things that we would like to see as a reality and, if they come together in a package across the eu, we will have a determined policy which eu citizens will see as a plan of action. at the moment, eu citizens understand the scourge of trafficking but they do not see the holistic approach and they do not understand what the eu is doing as a whole. i am happy that commissioner-designate malmström underlined her commitment today to come forward with a new legislative proposal very soon, and i am also happy to see the spanish presidency underlining not just the fight against trafficking but related issues such as violence against women. it is important that these all come together to show real determination and heart in this proposal. although the hour is late, we now need the words to be turned into action and the authors have done a good job for us today.
one who is another’s property and a helpless victim of some dominating influence – you might be forgiven for thinking this is a definition of human trafficking. in fact, it is a definition of slavery. trafficking is today’s slavery. trafficking of people, be it women, men or children, is a criminal offence and on the increase in all member states. extreme poverty, family breakdown and domestic violence contribute to some of the root causes of human trafficking. in the uk, we estimate approximately 5 000 victims, of which 330 are children. the ecr group welcomes this debate. national governments, law-enforcement agencies and border-control agencies need to work together. mechanisms for victim support need strengthening. initiatives must be robust, member state-driven and eu-supported.
mr president, european action on this issue is long overdue so i was very pleased to hear mr garrido’s remarks on children, the commissioner’s remarks and, this morning, that commissioner-designate malmström plans to bring forth a new directive in this area as a priority. i want to urge both council and commission to look at the support systems for victims, particularly the specific needs of trafficked children, who have very different needs to those of trafficked adults. in the uk, last year alone, 325 children were identified as being suspected victims of trafficking. many of those were uk citizens trafficked within the uk, not externally sourced, if i might use that expression. there are children in my own region who are trafficked but we find that, even after registration with social services, many trafficked children just disappear because they remain under the control of their traffickers. they find it just too easy to re-traffic these children. this occurs all over the eu and we must put a stop to it. trafficked people are voiceless and vulnerable and they rely on the european union to speak out for them, to stop this abhorrent crime and to care for them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the february i part-session. written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am happy at this crucial time in the work of the european union that spain takes on the presidency of the council. along with greece and portugal, spain’s membership of the european community was an early example of the way in which europe could help encourage and support a new democracy – a path followed successfully by many others since 1989. spanish members from all parties have made important contributions to the work of this house, holding distinguished office in both parliament and in our groups. their impact has been substantial, and in this context i would like to pay particular tribute to our friend jaime mayor oreja, one of parliament’s most influential personalities. the presidency starts at a critical time for the european union and i wish it well, but i confess i have misgivings. it stumbled in its first few days in office. the suggestion that, rather than simply coordinating plans for economic development, the european union should be able to establish compulsory economic policies with sanctions or corrective action against member states who do not comply is deeply disturbing. it reflects a very old-fashioned socialist command-and-control approach to economic policy which is not relevant to solving the problems of the 21st century. without interfering in the politics of spain, there is a saying in the united kingdom which suggests that you put your own house in order first. socialism does not do that. what we do need are economic policies that respect the rights of our member states, stimulate the sharing of best practice and focus on delivering eu added value; policies which defend the benefits of the internal market and extend them further; policies which provide a climate in which entrepreneurs and businesses can thrive in order to create jobs, raise our standard of living and contribute to a stronger society. we in the ecr group have high hopes of the europe 2020 initiative as a framework for a sustainable, competitive european economy, and we have drafted our own additional proposals which we hope will help to take this debate forward. i would like to touch on foreign policy. i know that this has been given some prominence in the presidency’s programme, but i must speak about one issue which is mentioned, but without enough emphasis in my view. that issue is iran. its illegitimate, brutal and dangerous government must be dealt with firmly. if we are serious about nuclear non-proliferation, the iranian government must understand that, whilst iran has the right to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, it will not be allowed to deceive the world in pursuing its ambition of having nuclear weapons. a regime which resorts to murder and violence to oppress its own people, a people cheated of a government of their choice, simply cannot be trusted, and we must take action. the spanish presidency takes office with a full agenda. our group will judge its proposals and initiatives on their merits. if it proposes progressive policies to stimulate economic growth, to deal with climate change, to strengthen individual freedom and responsibility, and to encourage cooperation on the world stage where we share common interests, all of these are areas where europe can offer a benefit rather than impose a burden. if it does that, then it will have our support.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, thank you. mr zapatero, i have listened with attention to your proposals for the spanish presidency, and i can only wish you luck. i will now refer to a reality. i represent the south east of england, and many of my constituents – together with other european citizens – have been suffering urbanisation abuses on the mediterranean coast and in other parts of spain for a long time now. three reports have been adopted by this parliament urging the spanish authorities to take action but, other than the conviction of a few politicians and the passing of a new land law, no specific action has been taken to defend the people who are suffering prejudice. the problems my constituents face range from the dramatic situation of len and helen prior of berkshire, who saw their house being demolished because the authorities said it was built in breach of coastal law, to cases like that of doreen snook, also from berkshire, in alicante, and mr lohmann in lanzarote, who cannot actually live in the houses they have purchased because of the lack of proper infrastructure and services. as a national of spain, i am ashamed to see what is going on in my country. i have big concerns for the future of the spanish tourism business now that the press is writing about the bad fortune of these people. señor zapatero, me dirijo ahora a usted en su lengua materna, que es la mía. los afectados no son personas de gran fortuna, son simplemente personas que, con el fruto de su trabajo, compraron una casa en este país de clima benigno y buena gente para vivir una vez jubilados. esta gente se ve injustamente abocada a pagar honorarios de abogados y otros expertos para defender el caso por vía judicial, todo ello sin grandes perspectivas de éxito. the european union has been convincing its population that it is there to maintain peace in europe. is this situation i describe going to bring peace to europe? you are telling us that you are going to get europe out of the crisis. if you cannot solve the problem i am referring to, how much credibility can you have in solving europe’s financial crisis? mr zapatero, we want a solution now. we want the people to be able to live in the houses they bought. if this is not possible, they need to be granted a fair compensation that allows them to buy a similar property. this parliament has only threatened to block payments of subsidies to spain, but i can assure you that, if this situation is not resolved during the spanish presidency, i will do everything i can to turn this threat into action.
mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for his very sincere and european speech at the opening of spain’s presidency. this is normally a moment to be polite, and my colleagues know i am always very polite, but i have to return to the issue of the many british citizens and other european citizens who are having problems with losing their homes in spain. i approach it not like the former speaker from an anti-european perspective. i approach it from a pro-european perspective, where this parliament has time and time again done reports and had hearings through our petitions committee. it is a european problem. it is a problem of free movement. it is a problem of european citizenship. it is a problem of european justice, access to civil justice. i am sorry, prime minister. you made many wonderful comments about european citizenship and fairness and honesty. i do hope, prime minister, that you will be able to translate those comments to those european citizens who face homelessness and the loss of their savings in your country because, i am sorry to say, of what appears to this parliament to have been administrative abuse.
mr president, i welcome the prime minister’s very positive and ambitious programme for the spanish presidency. his emphasis on jobs and growth is vital to us all as we come out of the financial downturn, and i very much look forward to working with a fellow socialist government. the next six months are crucial for the eu economic and environmental future, and we look forward to the february council for ambitious leadership in reforming the financial sector. in the wake of the failed climate change negotiations at copenhagen, i am keen to hear how the presidency will work with the commission to put forward a common eu target for emissions reductions for the 31 january target. it has already been mentioned, but i urge, finally, that, during your presidency, prime minister, you will take the opportunity to resolve the issue of land grab and other issues which cause such distress and heartache to tens of thousands of law-abiding property owners across southern spain. we really do need action now. mr zapatero, it is good to see you here, and i wish you a very successful term in office.
mr president, the prime minister spoke in his opening remarks about the need for europe to develop a more effective foreign policy, especially with regard to its near neighbours, amongst which we must include israel. here we have a country which is in military occupation of another people’s territory, which infringes human rights, which maintains the blockade of gaza and applies collective punishment to one and a half million people, and yet we regard it as a normal trading partner. our principles and our policies are clear: they were restated by foreign ministers just last month, but our words do not seem to be backed up by any deeds. i think the true test of this presidency over the next few months will be whether we start to apply some independence in our relations with israel, and whether we start to demonstrate that our principles mean something and that we will apply them.
mr president, you started off today, prime minister, with a very pro-european agenda. what i would like to tell you is that this agenda is not working. the euro at this moment in time is in dire straits in certain countries. greece is on its backside; spain, your country, is in dire straits as well. you have got a country of your own making with unemployment for 18- to 24-year olds currently running at 40%. the spanish people can speak for themselves. in your role now for the next six months, you are also speaking on behalf of people from my country. initially you mentioned further integration. i ask you, before you bring more integration in, that you go back to the people of my country, the united kingdom, and give them the choice of a referendum.
mr president, our agenda this week, and today particularly, has been thin, meagre and truncated. we all know why. the week has been given over to backroom manoeuvring. i would say manoeuvring in smoke-filled rooms but, this being brussels, i will say smoke-free rooms. we have come through this nonsense of the hearings. it has produced candidates concerning whom i have to say that i have not heard of a single member of this house who thinks we are now about to appoint the 27 best-qualified men and women in the whole of the european union to the awesome powers concentrated in the hands of the european commission. not only will they be the executive, they will also have the right to initiate law – a concentration of power that is extraordinary in any context, but all the more so when we bear in mind that they are not directly answerable to the electorate. this is the most exclusive electorate in europe – 736 meps get to decide who will run the continent. you do not have to be a euro-sceptic to find that objectionable. it seems to me extraordinary that this continent, which exported the idea of representative government and parliamentary democracy, which carried the seeds of democracy to far continents where they found fertile soil, should now have taken the axe to the ancestral tree here in europe. all of us are diminished by that process.
mr president, when considering eu-acp relations, surely the first principle should be how we help take people out of poverty in many of these countries. when i speak to entrepreneurs in these countries, they complain to me about how, even 40 years after independence for many of them, they have suffered from the problems of 40 years of socialism, where they are still dependent on primary economies and also over-dependent on aid. the entrepreneurs in these countries also tell me how trade barriers actually harm these countries and how it makes imports of food and medicines more expensive for the very poorest citizens. they complain about eu tariff and non-tariff barriers, and i am glad that the eu-acp goes some way to tackling some of the tariff barriers, if not the non-tariff barriers. i am also pleased that the commission has actually set up a unit that helps entrepreneurs in developing countries to export into the eu. we must remember the first principle is that the best way to help the poorest out of poverty is to encourage more trade and to help the entrepreneurs in poorer countries.
in writing. − i am very pleased that nikiforos diamandouros has been re-elected as european ombudsman. he has been a very good champion of citizens' rights, and i am pleased he will continue in this role.
in writing. − i will vote for this report but i must make the point that certain organisations supported by the commission, given the responsibility of delivering projects under eu-acp partnerships, have been mired in corruption and have orchestrated a campaign of discrimination and victimisation against the members of staff who brought the said corruption to light. i refer of course to the organisation known as cde, who with commission support have dismissed all whistleblowers from office and have done little to put right failings in the governance and senior management of this organisation. when the olaf investigation into cde found that corruption had taken place and that the commission had failed to exercise due diligence as members of the management board of the cde at the time the fraud was taking place, one would have expected action and certainly protection for the whistleblowers concerned. neither has happened, to the ultimate shame of the european commission. whilst i vote in favour today, i wonder whether there is an urgent need in future to examine in more detail what appears to be the inability of the eu side of these partnerships to exercise proper financial control.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, recent events have once again reminded us all how important it is that we share information in order to ensure the security of eu citizens. swift has been a valuable tool in achieving this. luckily, having met with us government officials, particularly mr david cohen, the assistant secretary for terrorist financing in the us treasury department recently in washington, i was reassured by the multi-layered control systems and safeguards and independent oversight which i hope will lead to the implementation of this new agreement being beyond reproach. where i must express grave concern, as others have done, is in the council’s substandard consultation with parliament, and alleged commission delays. it is essential that parliament and the elected representatives of this house are frequently and properly informed, and parliamentary consent must not be a retrospective tool. for the council to treat it as such undermines the values and democratic principles that lie at the heart of this chamber and this parliament. i do hope that the council, and indeed the presidency, will take careful note of these remarks.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i hope that i am proved to be wrong, but it looks to me increasingly unlikely that the talks begun and continued at copenhagen will in fact lead to a legally binding treaty committing all of the major emitters in the world to large emission cuts. in those circumstances, i believe it would be very foolish for those of us in the eu debating these matters to agree to even further emissions reductions. a figure of 30% has been mentioned. mrs hassi just mentioned 40%. in the absence of a worldwide agreement, i think we would be crazy to agree to further reductions because what we will do is run the risk of saddling our consumers with some of the highest energy bills in the developed world, making european heavy industry and large energy consumers particularly uncompetitive in a worldwide environment. already we have seen a lot of industry relocating to outside the eu, simply of course transferring emissions from the eu to china, india and elsewhere. this is a crazy economic policy because it has no net benefit for the environment whatsoever. in fact, in some respects it has a net deleterious effect on the environment as those goods are simply re-imported back into the eu, after all. what we need is a comprehensive worldwide agreement. i am fully in favour of that. i hope we will work towards achieving it, but in the absence of one we should be very wary of further unilateral cuts in europe.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, tá práinn le conradh atá uaillmhianach agus ina cheangal dlí. is gá don ae laghduithe astuithe de 40% faoi 2020 agus 80-95% faoi 2050 a gheallúint de réir na heolaíochta is déanaí, agus ní féidir a leithéid de ghealltán a dhéanamh ag brath ar ghníomhartha daoine eile. caithfidh fios a bheith ag an saol mór cad iad na fíorlaghduithe astuithe a dhéanfar agus fios a bheith againn go gcuirfear an maoiniú riachtanach ar fáil do thíortha atá i mbéal forbartha chun dul i ngleic le hathrú aeráide agus a iarmhairtí. tá soiléireacht de dhíth. tá soiléireacht de dhíth orainn ar fad faoi cé go díreach a sholáthróidh an maoiniú seo, cá mhéad a thabharfaidh gach tír forbartha, agus cad é mar agus cá huair a chuirfear ar fáil é. ní féidir leis an easpa tola polaitiúla a léiríodh i gcóbanhávan tarlú arís. agus guím féin gach rath fosta ar an choimisinéir dimas.
mr president, after copenhagen let us reassess the whole global warming story. at copenhagen we had the irony of not just ‘climategate ii’, but also the onset of one of the harshest winters in decades. since then we have seen the debunking of the potsdam sea-level scare; the goddard institute has been caught fiddling the temperature records; the vanishing himalayan glaciers have been exposed as a fantasy; mr pachauri has emerged as a climate change profiteer. the world is cooling. global warming is a fraud. this is not a victimless crime. carbon taxes push up fuel prices, killing our old folk as we speak. the billions wasted researching this non-existent problem are billions that cannot be spent defeating real scourges such as alzheimer’s, or ending real environmental disasters such as deforestation. carbon credit trading makes billions for city sharks at the expense of families in poverty. the loss of agricultural land to biofuels has already doubled world food prices, so millions are starving while greedy corporations make even fatter profits. those pushing the unscientific nonsense of man-made climate change – shell, monsanto, the international banks, bilderberg one-worlders, carbon billionaires and their useful idiot allies on the left – are running the biggest fraud in human history. they must and will be called to account, as should their collaborators in places such as this.
mr president, and fellow collaborators, we need to move on from copenhagen. the truth is we do not know the way. we are stumbling around in the dark. i think we just simply have to explore every opportunity and hope that one or more of them will take us forward. but i am sure we have to try to maintain our ambitions and keep our leadership, and on this point there is a crucial decision coming up within the next fortnight and i want to know what the presidency is going to do to get it right. forty per cent of our emissions come from the fossil fuels burnt in our power stations. that is why the development of carbon capture and storage technology is recognised as so important. that is why the council three years ago agreed that we should try and build up to 12 demonstration projects by 2015. now, we agreed a year ago a method of financing those projects: to use 300 million allowances from the emissions trading scheme. it took three months for that idea to come from parliament, to get approval by the council to unlock the door, but 12 months later we still have not agreed how to choose the projects or use the money. the commission has finally put forward a draft decision. it proposes only eight ccs projects, and the timetable it recommends means that it will be impossible for them all to be built by 2015. commissioner rehn has got the hot seat, then; i hope someone will pass him a note between now and the end of the debate so he can explain the lack of ambition in this document. but it must be agreed: however inadequate, we have got to move forward. it will be debated at a meeting of the council’s climate change committee on 2 february, and there is opposition from some member states who oppose the commission having the final say over the selection of projects and the use and distribution of the money. now this meeting will be the first opportunity since copenhagen for the european union to demonstrate whether it is going forward and taking practical steps or going to slip backwards. it is a crucial test both for the commission and the presidency. so my question to the minister is: is the presidency going to ensure that we get agreement at that meeting, or are you going to drop the ball?
mr president, you can, of course, tell that i am a sceptic because i do not dress like a scarecrow. i fought my way through the blizzard in copenhagen, like many of you did. it is interesting, is it not, that we have had the coldest winter so far on record in london for 30 years? it is the same in poland, korea and china. we have had the coldest temperatures in florida, arizona, texas – the first snow in texas, i think, for a hundred years. of course, as giles coren of the london times said, my goodness me, we simply do not get it – of course that is what global warming is all about: we have got to get used to freezing temperatures. well, we have seen the al gore hockey stick, which is still, i gather, being shown in london state schools – al gore, snake oil salesman, crook! we have seen professor jones from the university of east anglia – crook! and now – you will not know about this yet because it has been kept out of the public domain – the new zealand national climate database: i have the figures here – all fraudulent. when are you all going to wake up? scam, scam, scam! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
mr president, apparently all the science of climate change is nonsense, according to mr bloom, because we have had a cold winter. i wonder if mr bloom would like to tell the house the difference between climate and weather.
climate, mr davies, is what we all have to put up with.
the outcome of copenhagen was deeply disappointing, but we must now move forward. the eu needs to commit itself now to a 30% cut in emissions for three reasons. the first is simply that a 30% cut requires barely more effort now than the original 20% cut, simply because of the fall in economic activity due to the recession. secondly, to rein back now would be to lose the momentum which has been built up in the new green industries. we cannot ‘half-commit’ to investment in renewable energy sources and low-carbon transport. there is massive infrastructure which needs to be put in place, whether it is a north sea supergrid or, on a smaller scale, plug-in charging points for electric cars. hundreds and thousands of new jobs are at stake, potentially 70 000 jobs relating to offshore wind in the uk alone, but these jobs, which are so necessary for economic recovery, will only be realised if there is a clear roadmap towards a zero-carbon europe by 2050. investment has to have certainty, and we need to be aware that europe is in danger of losing its place as leader on renewable technology. both the us and china are growing their renewables industries very rapidly. if we hesitate now, those new green jobs will move to other continents. finally, we need that 30% cut because most of the extra commitment can easily be realised by increased energy efficiency. not to do more on energy efficiency would in any case be crazy. energy efficiency means economic efficiency. it means lower energy bills, not higher ones, and it improves energy security. so, whatever figures are put on the table by the other parties on 31 january – and maybe we will be pleasantly surprised – the eu must commit now to a 30% cut.
mr president, i have good news for the house: in common with many scientists, i personally have concluded that there is no climate crisis! global sea levels are not rising significantly and, as the ipcc has been forced to admit, himalayan glaciers are not in rapid retreat. the small increase in mean global temperatures over the last hundred years is entirely consistent with well-established, long-term, natural climate changes. copenhagen showed that many nations, especially china and india, are simply not prepared to sacrifice economic performance to solve an entirely speculative problem. in britain a majority of voters no longer believe in man-made climate change and they will not pay for futile and pointless attempts at mitigation. the recent leaked cru memos show that even the high priests of climate alarmism are in despair at the failure of nature to follow their forecasts, so they are falsifying the figures to sustain their fantasy. we must now demand a full public inquiry into the suspect data before we spend another penny on mitigation.
mr president, a question to the president-in-office, and maybe to the commission as well, about this deadline of 31 january. what is happening about the pledges inside the eu? i assumed the eu would make one pledge, but i am hearing that in coreper they are discussing several pledges. what exactly is happening? secondly, we talk about one voice for europe, but is it not part of the problem that the eu went to copenhagen with a mandate and there was no flexibility for the negotiating team to negotiate? that is part of the problem. that is why the eu is cut out of the final negotiations. why talk to a negotiator who cannot move at all and has no flexibility? how are we going to resolve this? i am told that the same thing happens at the wto. it is a big problem for the eu. finally, i hope, commissioner rehn, that you will pass on our best wishes to commissioner dimas. i am sorry he is not here for the final session. we would have liked to thank him for the excellent work he has done over many years, and i hope we will see him next week in the environment committee to pass on our thanks.
mr president, whilst the big conference at copenhagen was under way last month – complete with politicians, ngos and activists – there was another climate conference going on in the same city, where most of the speakers were scientists, and i believe that i was the only mep present. these scientists, one by one, demolished the so-called facts about man-made global warming, with scientific argument as opposed to alarmist sound bite. we heard about the technical failures of al gore’s hockey stick graph and the unreliability of weather station data after the fall of the berlin wall. we were advised on the scientific shortcomings of the computer models that are reluctant to predict cold weather, and the probability of the opposite relationship between carbon dioxide and global temperatures to the one that we are being brainwashed with. we were shown satellite photographs of the rapid increase in arctic ice over the last three years, and we were briefed on the increase in the numbers of polar bears.
mr president, the earlier references to the so-called evidence about himalayan glaciers need to be elaborated on. the intergovernmental panel on climate change said in 2007 that they would disappear by the year 2035. the sunday times has recently discovered that the report was ultimately based on an interview given to the new scientist by an indian scientist, mr hasnain in 1999. mr hasnain has subsequently said that this was based on personal estimates and did not mention the year and did not carry out any formal research. if our conclusions on the hypothesis of climate change are to be based on evidence, then that evidence must be irreproachable. it must not be manufactured and it must not be invented.
the next item is question time (b7-0002/2010). i welcome the minister to this first question time with the spanish presidency. the following questions are addressed to the council. question 1 will not be taken as the subject to which it refers already appears in the agenda for this part-session.
i am very sorry but your question does not appear to be related at all to the last question. i am not sure whether or not you have participated in question time before, but you are allowed a supplementary question that relates to the main question. i am sorry, but i have to rule your question completely out of order. i suggest that you look at the rules. as far as i am aware, there were no supplementary questions at the time i closed the last question. i am therefore going to continue unless there is another question relating to the credit crunch/loans for business. mr zemke, if that is what your question is about, then you have 30 seconds.
question 3 by bernd posselt (h-0479/09) subject: eu integration of kosovo what steps is the council planning in order to fulfil the european parliament’s wish to see kosovo included in eu programmes, pre-accession strategies and the thessaloniki process irrespective of the status question?
question 4 by jim higgins (h-0486/09) subject: devastation of the tropical rainforests in view of the outcome of the world discussions on climate change in the december copenhagen meeting, would the council agree that, while european agriculture is a contributory factor in the production of co2 emissions, the devastation of the tropical rainforests in the amazon basin more than outweighs the negative effects of european agricultural production in terms of co2 emissions?
i bring good cheer because one of the few successful outcomes of the copenhagen conference was broad agreement on a mechanism that will enable developed countries to contribute financially to prevent the destruction of tropical rain forests. so, would the minister agree that one of the objectives of the spanish presidency should be to give this agreement substance and to secure a good indication from europe about how much we are prepared to commit to preventing the destruction of rain forests?
question 5 by liam aylward (h-0487/09) subject: european-level action on combating alzheimer's disease it is estimated that 8.6 million people in europe suffer from neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer's and with europe's aging population the numbers suffering will continue to rise. can the council give further details on the recently announced joint programming initiative on combating these illnesses? how does the council envisage coordinated european action alleviating the burden on patients, their families and their carers?
i can understand that mr higgins will probably not be happy, but i think it is a difficult issue and one that probably deserves a question of its own at some point.
question 6 by harlem désir (h-0489/09) subject: corporate social responsibility (csr) at the 'protect, respect, remedy' conference in stockholm on 10 and 11 november 2009, the current presidency and the future spanish presidency called on the european union and the member states to take the lead in csr. in march 2007, parliament asked for a mechanism to be put in place to make it easier for victims of corporate abuse to bring damages claims against companies in european courts. it also asked that the responsibility of company directors be extended to include the duty to minimise the negative impact of their activities on the environment and human rights and that clear reporting standards be implemented at an international level. in its statement, the council underlined the progress made but also recommended working within a common framework explicitly mentioning the state's responsibility to protect and ensuring that human rights be respected by the corporate world and penalties imposed in the event of violations. what binding legal instruments does the council propose to ensure that companies respect the principles of due diligence and reporting and are punished in the event of violations of human or environmental rights within their area of responsibility?
question 7 by hans-peter martin (h-0491/09) subject: eu financial supervision the president of the ecb, jean-claude trichet, said to the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs on monday 7 december 2009, with regard to the topic of eu financial supervision and agreement by eu finance ministers, "that is not necessarily the best solution", because there are, for example, no provisions for the planned eu authorities to have direct powers to issue instructions. how will the council ensure that transnational banks, insurance companies, financial service providers, investment funds and hedge funds do not evade effective supervision because national competences continue to be fragmented?
question 9 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0496/09) subject: economic situation in greece and role of the eurozone the message emerging from the recent summit meeting regarding the serious economic problems besetting greece and the question of support for countries finding themselves in such a situation were contradictory. while chancellor merkel was at pains to stress the shared responsibility of all eurozone countries for the fate of one of it members, mr reinfeldt took the view that greece’s problems were home-grown and must be resolved from within. what is the presidency’s position regarding solidarity between member states, particularly within the eurozone, where one of them is faced with the prospect of insolvency? is it in favour of european central bank loans and guarantees for member state governments in order to curb speculative profiteering and prevent public debt from spiralling into a vicious circle as a consequence of downgraded credit ratings? does it believe that, aside from the punitive remedies prescribed under the stability and growth pact, more effective preventive checks are needed, coupled with measures to shore up employment and growth in debt-laden countries, before their economic situation worsens drastically?
minister, thank you very much for your participation in this first question time with your presidency. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.15 and resumed at 21.00.)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the announcement of the democratic opening last year gave hope of a genuine breakthrough in securing respect for kurdish linguistic, cultural and human rights in turkey and closing the door on the years of terrorism and violence. yet tonight parliament joins council and commission in expressing our deep concern that what is closed instead with december’s constitutional court decision is the political party which commands the majority of the vote in the country’s kurdish majority areas, and is what the country’s human rights association calls the ‘natural negotiator’ on behalf of the kurdish people. two years ago i personally attended, as an observer, the party’s congress with some 20 000 people, and saw and heard for myself their legitimacy in the eyes of their own supporters. i acknowledge that the closure of political parties was opposed by the turkish prime minister in his statement in the wake of the decision, and today’s turkish press reports the governing party’s announced intention to prevent further unwarranted closures by bringing the constitution into line with article 11 of the european convention on human rights. these promises must be realised. but it is difficult for any of us to reconcile turkey’s call for guerrillas to come down from the mountains with the fact that other members of the same community who have chosen the path of democracy are then shown lined up in handcuffs and marched into jail. between 700 and 1 000 of the party’s members are reported to be imprisoned, many for simply speaking their own language in public. in this european parliament we should particularly regret the jailing of nine of the party’s elected mayors and the banning of two of its mps. in our parliament, as in theirs, the reason that we have parliamentary immunity is so that we as representatives of the people can speak out without fear. the fear that we have to combat, for those of us intent on seeing turkey join the european union, is the misplaced fear amongst some of the majority population that, in a multi-ethnic country, what we call minority rights are a threat to the unity of the state. in modern europe, quite simply, they are not. so, finally, a party whose turkish name translates as the ‘democratic society party’ is gone, but its aim of a democratic society in a modern turkey must not be lost.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, turkey’s political system is sufficiently mature now to be considered a pluralist democracy. political debate is robust and voters have a genuine choice. moreover, turkey is a member of the council of europe, which of course binds its government to common standards of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. evidently a stable and permanent democracy is a precondition for eventual membership of the eu. there are now, however, perhaps two areas of concern. the first is turkey’s history of military intervention in the political process. while the army is undoubtedly an important guarantor of secularism and stability, any attempt to undermine an elected government would scupper turkey’s eu ambitions for good. the second concern is the dominance of the akp in the political landscape, which leads some observers to fear the gradual development of a de facto one-party state. provided that happens democratically we cannot object, even if some have expressed concerns about the relatively high threshold for parliamentary representation at 10% in turkey, which of course squeezes smaller parties out of the parliamentary process. however, the akp’s mildly islamist leanings also give rise to concern in the views of some, and the party’s popularity tends to indicate a fundamental paradigm shift in the nature of turkish society. until now the secular kemalist tradition has served turkey’s euro-atlantic leanings very well, but its gradual decline due to demographic changes would tend to indicate that those who believe in the power of ataturk’s vision have rather taken it too much for granted. for the good of turkish society, democracy needs to be pluralist, secular and built on a bed-rock of respect for human rights, including those of its kurdish minorities. one concern in addition, of course, is turkey’s membership of the organisation of the islamic conference (oic), where such common western values as we all share in the european union are not evident because the oic cites sharia law as a basis for human rights in the islamic world. this, in my view, will also generate some serious conflicts of interest were turkey one day to join the european union.
madam president, many of the reforms we constantly call for in turkey come together in the saga of the repeated closure of kurdish political parties, of which that of the dtp last month is only the latest. the continued failure to reform the constitution, the law on political parties and the judiciary, as well as the continued involvement of the military in politics all influence the context in which kurdish democratic political representation is repeatedly sabotaged. these closures also sabotage the democratic opening launched last year by the erdoğan government, which was, rightly, widely welcomed. the only way to get a durable settlement to the kurdish question in turkey is through a political solution, and that is the best way to combat the pkk. commissioner rehn talked about several mayors and dtp politicians being arrested, but my information is that about 1 200 activists are in prison, including members of the bdp party, which has succeeded the dtp. i am not clear at all how the government intends to strengthen its democratic opening in this context. who is calling the shots on these arrests? i have heard it said – i think it was by richard howitt – that prime minister erdoğan did condemn the dtp closure, although i confess i missed that development. a cynic might say that, electorally, it suits the akp party rather well to have the dtp closed, as they are electoral rivals in the south-east. i agree with those like mrs in ’t veld and mrs flautre that a solid and reliable assurance to turkey that it will join the eu, if it meets the copenhagen criteria, is the best leverage we have for democratisation in turkey – though they owe it to themselves, too. turkey is an important country that has many great assets. it needs and deserves democracy. finally, i add my own thanks to commissioner rehn for all he has done for enlargement in the last five years, not only concerning turkey but – also close to my heart – the western balkans. i look forward to welcoming him soon in his new portfolio.
madam president, turkey holds elections but is not a democracy in the accepted western sense. political parties can be banned; there is corruption in the legal system; there are abuses of human rights; freedom of speech and association do not exist in the same way that they do in countries like britain or most other european states. there is continuing persecution of a tiny christian minority, which is – sadly – a growing feature of most islamic countries. the reforms of kemal ataturk in the 1920s were to be applauded, as they sought to leave behind the antiquities of the ottoman empire and the worst of the dark age islamic practices and to take turkey forward into the 20th century. even those achievements are now under threat as the worldwide ideological islamic fundamentalist movement gains power, funded as it is by countries such as saudi arabia – courtesy of western oil revenues – and ably assisted by the supine surrender of western civilisation. this debate, of course, is just another small step on the road to allowing turkey to join the european union. turkish entry to the european union is enthusiastically supported by the british conservative, labour and liberal democratic parties. they look forward to welcoming the hundreds of thousands, or even millions, of turkish immigrants who will come to britain if turkey joins the eu. and just imagine if turkey joins the european union and uses such common legal procedures as the european arrest warrant. british voters should imagine their potential free trip on the turkish midnight express courtesy of the lib dems, labour and tories, and vote accordingly. sadly, turkey wants to join the european union because they will have their hands out in the hope of having them filled with lots of european taxpayers’ money in subsidies, and they see the opportunity of offloading millions of their poor and unemployed excess population by exporting them to western countries like britain, where they will either work for low wages or go on the benefits system. this is hardly a positive vision for a proud nation. i wish the turks well and hope they achieve real democracy in time, but i also hope they will take the advice of the uk independence party not to join the european union but to preserve their freedom and independence.
madam president, i am not exactly sure why we are having this debate at this particular time. perhaps it is because it is three years since the death of hrant dink, and there are still serious questions still to be answered in relation to that crime. i met dink after the trial of orhan pamuk. dink’s death was, of course, a great tragedy, and as a friend of turkey i did not hesitate to point out the damage to turkey’s standing of restricting freedom of expression and being oversensitive about criticisms of the turkish state. but of course, it is in turkey’s interest to strengthen every aspect of her democracy. i also support the idea of turkey as a secular and united country that for over 80 years has looked to the west. i recognise the need for a strong turkish army, and i recognise also the key geostrategic importance of turkey. it is for these reasons that i believe we should be very supportive of turkey and not seek constantly to find ways of criticising her and sniping at her. of course, banning political parties is generally a bad idea, although there are exceptions to that rule. we all recognise that terrorist organisations have political fronts and it is a fine judgement whether more damage is done by leaving a front alone or closing it down. of course the pkk has its political fronts. i will just say a word about the pkk, because it continues with its terrorist activities. what is clear is that the pkk continues not only as a terrorist organisation but also with its criminal networks, which extend beyond turkey throughout europe. the pkk is like a mafia, with a structure carrying out criminal activity, raising funds and bolstering support. it is involved in every aspect of organised crime: tax evasion, counterfeiting money, trafficking of human beings – and the narcotics trade, of course, is one of its key sources of funding. it just seems to me that we ought to be concentrating on doing more to overcome problems such as that in our own countries and helping the turks in that way, rather than constantly sniping at them and criticising them.
madam president, regrettably i share the views of others that the action by the constitutional court to ban the dtp can only be viewed as a regressive step in turkey’s democratisation efforts, despite the very strong progress that is being made with recent democratic initiatives. the law banning the dtp has been used – as has been said – since 1982 to ban some 27 parties, but of course political parties are an expression of the will of the people. they are the lifeblood of any democracy, and it is time that legal reforms were introduced to end the banning of political parties. on the other hand, all political parties and candidates seeking elected office in democracies must respect the basic principles of democracy and the rule of law, and must commit to pursuing political objectives through exclusively peaceful means. growing up in northern ireland, i saw too many people maimed and murdered in the pursuit of political goals. in a democracy, politics must be conducted through the ballot box, not with bullets and bombs. so, like others, i appeal to the turkish prime minister and government to ensure the rule of democracy is established, to reform the constitution and to ensure that this action does not derail turkey’s progress towards eu membership, which i, and my political party and government, are proud to support.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, tunisia is a friend and ally of the european union, a prosperous, progressive, modern and meritocratic secular society unique in the arab world. tunisia also rightly takes an uncompromising approach to islamist jihadi extremism. a multiparty political system is fast taking shape in tunisia and it is a country where women are fully equal members of their society. why then do we seek to alienate tunisia and its 10 million people? perhaps because of jealousy at its success, perhaps because it is small and possesses no oil, so, no, there is no economic leverage on the eu, unlike libya or saudi arabia. in my view, those who have engineered this debate are making a deliberate effort to sabotage much of the progress in eu-tunisia relations in recent years. it is especially galling that this debate is occurring at the same time as a visit of tunisian parliamentarians to strasbourg who are, i think, sitting up there watching this debate. tunisia needs our support, encouragement and dialogue, not a constant stream of senseless invective. it is bitterly ironic that the left, who claim to be so much in favour of women’s rights, attack tunisia despite the fact that this country offers women opportunities and freedoms unprecedented anywhere else in the arab world. the fact that the tunisian authorities prohibit the wearing of the hijab in public places indicates their determination to protect tunisia’s values of secularism, tolerance and liberty. we should respect tunisia as our euro-mediterranean advanced partner.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, tunisia’s situation is overall a positive one it seems. they have the most stable society in north africa. they have what is technically a democracy, though possibly only a semi-democracy by western standards, but we should not criticise them for that, since they have made much progress. there is an official policy of working towards full democracy, and tunisia is a stable society with a high level of personal security. this has been achieved by the suppression of their islamist extremists and communists, which is a price well worth paying. its official policy is the pursuit of cultural unity – the creation of one nation. this is a lesson that many european countries – including mine, the united kingdom – could well learn. economically, they are progressing. only 7% of the population lives below the poverty line. it has one of the best health standards among countries in north africa, with a relatively high life expectancy. politically, their constitution limits the number of seats a party can hold in the chamber of deputies, with 20% of seats being reserved for minority parties. this looks positively enlightened when compared to the ‘first past the post’ electoral system used in the united kingdom, which in my opinion is a conspiracy against the voter to keep the conservative and labour parties in and everybody else out. so maybe we should learn something from the tunisians. speaking of the uk, my party, the uk independence party, came in for some criticism from some islamic extremist and supposedly liberal quarters last week when we proposed a plan that people’s faces should be uncovered in public buildings, and in private buildings if those concerned wish to impose such a condition. but look at what tunisia did. law no 108 bans the hijab, which goes much further than anybody else has proposed. the religious affairs minister, boubaker el akhzouri, has slammed the hijab as running counter to the country’s ‘cultural legacy’, regarding islamic dress as ‘a foreign phenomenon’ in society. well that is very interesting, coming out of an islamic country. the more i find out about tunisia, the more positive an impression it makes. but i have seen some figures which indicate that eur 70 million is to be spent on key projects in the eu neighbourhood scheme. my constituents, who are some of the poorest in london, cannot afford that kind of expenditure. we want trade, friendship and cooperation with tunisia but not at the price of robbing the taxpayer in the uk. let us help them increase their democracy and develop prosperity and, if they would like to take some free advice, let them keep well away from the european union and preserve their freedom and independence.
mr president, sadly there has been a general climate in the islamic world of increasing jihadi militancy aimed at non-muslim communities in their midst – in particular, and more often than not, this means the christians. the copts, who represent one of the oldest christian churches in the world, have a large diaspora in london, which i represent. their leaders have come to me and complained of a worsening situation, regrettably, in egypt, orchestrated by the muslim brotherhood. in spite of the best efforts by president mubarak’s government to protect them, matters have deteriorated. we witness a similar story with the assyrian christians in iraq, the christians of palestine and pakistan, and now, as we see for the first time, even in malaysia. this house has – for too long, in my view – ignored christian minority rights in the rest of the world, but they look to the european union and to the united states for protection. so i welcome this resolution.
mr president, the persecution of christians and other religious minorities is growing in islamic countries. christians who have lived in countries such as egypt and in the mediterranean area for almost 2 000 years are increasingly being persecuted and driven out of their ancestral homelands. this is because of the growing power of intolerant fundamentalist and extremist islamist ideology – islamo-fascism. the persecution of christian minorities and others across the islamic world is vastly under-reported by the west’s media. the media should not only report the persecution as it happens but they should explain to the general public the reasons why it is happening. they should explain who is doing this, namely muslim fanatics, and why they are doing it – because of the intolerant and violent fault lines in islamic ideology. democratic governments worldwide should put maximum diplomatic pressure on countries such as egypt to suppress this intolerable persecution.
author. − mr president, the fact that yet again in this house we are debating human rights abuses in china indicates that the communist authoritarian leadership of beijing remains determined to suppress any political dissent. however, that fact should not stop us from raising these issues in parliament. i believe not only that we have a duty to do so, but that we owe it to the victims of human rights abuses in china such as liu xiaobo, most of whom have been denied a voice. this is why we are debating this matter again today. indeed, the award of the sakharov prize in 2008 to hu jia showed the world how seriously we meps take the issue of human rights in china. we take it seriously because china really matters. its vast size and global outreach, its military muscle and economic power compel the eu to seek a strategic partnership based on mutual respect and security. perhaps eventually our relationship with china will also be based on our common values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law: we can but hope. i think all of us hope, nevertheless, to see the day when we will really see this in practice in the people’s republic of china. it has been suggested that such ideals are somehow alien to asia. i always look to democratic taiwan and vast india with its democratic secular traditions, where these flourish in a free society, to basically put a lie to the idea that the prc cannot be democratic.
mr president, i have the honour to be the european parliament’s vice-president responsible for democracy and human rights. rightly, the resolution focuses on liu xiaobo, the principal author of charter 08. an english version is available on my website charter08.eu. after my last visit to beijing in may 2006, all the dissidents with whom i had contact were arrested, imprisoned and in some cases tortured, hu jia, for example, who is still in prison and needing medical treatment. in particular gao zhisheng, who reportedly has disappeared after three and a half years in prison, under house arrest and under torture, which caused him twice to try and commit suicide. gao’s open letters to the regime in 2005 set the tone for charter 08. his investigation into the persecution of the spiritual buddhist group, falun gong, led to widespread support across china. i believe the authorities should now produce gao zhisheng and release him. nobody should be in any doubt that the european parliament will not give up on reform in china, and of course in tibet.
author. − mr president, this horrendous crime in maguindanao is undoubtedly deserving of our strongest condemnation. it reveals the extent to which lawlessness has taken root in some parts of the philippines. there are many reasons for this depressing development: the dispersed nature of the islands of the philippines archipelago, the weak central government, corruption, poverty and an ongoing islamist terrorist insurgency supported by al-qa’ida in the south. this crime, apparently politically motivated, therefore must be seen in its wider social and historical context. we should not disregard the efforts that the philippines government has made to develop a more democratic political culture in the past 25 years following the fall of the kleptocratic dictator ferdinand marcos. nor should we underestimate the existentialist threat posed by the terrorists of abu sayyaf and how they are destabilising the whole of the society that makes up the philippine state. constructive engagement and targeted assistance offer the best chance of helping the philippines, a country which shares our common values in many ways, in order to enable them to embed the rule of law in central and in local government.
mr president, we see once again how the european union elevates appearance over substance, how it elevates motive over outcome. we have just voted through a series of resolutions condemning human rights abuses in china. what, though, is the european union doing in the real world? we are isolating taiwan; we have agreed in principle to sell weapons to the communist regime in beijing; and we are collaborating with it to create a rival to the american system of gps, which president chirac refers to as ‘technological imperialism’. see how hypocrisy has been elevated into a governing principle! we bleat about human rights, and then we funnel money to hamas. we refuse to deal with the anti-castro dissidents in cuba, we disregard democracy within our own borders when referendums go the wrong way, but we convince ourselves that we are still the good guys because – look at the text of our resolution on human rights! we are now going to have the extraordinary spectacle of sending baroness ashton as our foreign representative to iran and cuba and these places to tell them that their democracy is inadequate, when she has never once in her entire career subjected herself to the ballot box, or invited her fellow countrymen to vote for or against her. i shall finish, if i may, by congratulating the good people of massachusetts for taking a stand against excessive taxation and excessive government. it was the people of massachusetts who began the revolution in order to get away from the idea that taxes could be levied without popular consent. we need such a revolution again here in europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i know you had an overloaded agenda at the conference of presidents meeting last week and there was not much time to debate the addition of this item to the agenda, but in the january plenary – as you all saw – members of different political groups expressed concerns at the points raised in the question on abuses relating to foreigners’ property in spain. wednesday evening provides an opportunity for the commission to give an answer. therefore i invite our colleagues to support this proposal. on behalf of the efd group, i would invite you to hold a roll-call vote. if the majority is in favour of this proposal, i would like to propose a second roll-call vote to wind up the debate with a resolution.
mr president, i would like to speak in favour of mrs andreasen’s motion because many of our constituents write to us on this problem and i think it is something that parliament should debate.
mr president, if i can make one very small point of order. my colleague over there (mr guy verhofstadt) referred to us as ‘anti-european’. this is not true; we are anti the european union.
mr president, sometimes colleagues in this parliament make life very difficult for its friends. the bureau has recommended expenditure in order to employ 150 more people, in parliament and the political groups, to cope with the requirements of the lisbon treaty – a massive increase in expenditure at a time when so many of our citizens are facing public service cuts and tax rises. i have been dealing with codecision legislation for more than 10 years. i do not believe we need that many staff: i believe we can redeploy and use our staff more effectively without an increase in our budget. all of us who run a council – or indeed a government – know that sometimes we have to live within our means. we should not be doing things for which we cannot account. the test should always be: can we stand up at a public meeting and explain what we are doing to our citizens? i believe that, in this case, we could not.
a uachtaráin, le roinnt seachtainí anuas bhí idirbheartaíochtaí ann sa chéim is deireanaí i bpróiseas síochána thuaisceart na héireann. bhí na páirtithe polaitiúla agus rialtais na breataine agus na héireann páirteach sna cainteanna. bhí siad ann ach go háirithe le haistriú cumhachtaí póilíneachta ó pharlaimint westminster i londain go dtí an tionól i mbéal feirste a chinntiú. phléigh siad roinnt phríomhcheisteanna eile fosta. táim sásta gur chríochnaigh na cainteanna úd faoi dheireadh agus aontú ann idir na páirtithe agus táim cinnte go bhfáilteoidh parlaimint na heorpa an dul chun cinn seo fosta. tá súil agam gur féidir linn tabhairt faoi ghealltanais eile anois nár socraíodh agus nár comhlíonadh go fóill. bogfaidh sin muid uile i dtreo institiúidí polaitiúla seasmhacha a fheidhmeoidh ar bhonn comhionannais, cionroinnt cumhachta agus cóimheasa.
mr president, i requested to make this one-minute speech to highlight the terrible effect that fortnightly bin collections are having upon communities in my constituency in the north west of england. take my home town of bootle, for example, where many families live in terraced houses with no front gardens and little space at the rear. it is crazy that they are forced to put out waste every two weeks. this, naturally, has caused pile-ups of rubbish, because there is no storage space. if we have a hot summer, you can be sure that this will lead to an increase in vermin, which in turn is a public health hazard. but why am i telling this house? well, because fortnightly bin collections are the direct result of the eu’s landfill directive, which was supported in this chamber by the british labour party and the conservatives. i for one hope that a large number of british voters bear this in mind when they go to the polls in the general election later this year.
mr president, i wish to speak on energy policy. as a previous speaker said, securing future energy supply is a vital issue for all of us, and to solve this problem we must look to a wide range of technologies: not just one; not just gas. obviously, renewable energy will have its part to play, whether it is wind, biomass or tidal power, but also nuclear and ccs must play their part as well. i therefore welcome recent initiatives from the uk government. it has recently brought forward a number of projects looking at new technologies for renewables but also nuclear and ccs as well. i believe that these policies will secure the energy supply in the uk for the future, and i would see this as a model for the rest of europe. i certainly do not believe that we can put all our eggs in one basket: we must have a wide range of technologies. i would urge colleagues here to do that in the future.
mr president, a few weeks ago, my estimable friend and yorkshire colleague, edward mcmillan-scott, brought the chairman of the international panel on climate change (ipcc) to this assembly and presented him as a legend in his own lunchtime and a top climate science guru – and i have to say that he certainly looked like a guru to me – but it turns out that he is a railway engineer who writes mucky books. now, i have nothing against railway engineers. some of my best friends are railway engineers and no doubt they read mucky books – that is not the point – but it might explain perhaps, does it not, why the ipcc has come out with so much absurd nonsense in the last few years. would it not be a good idea if the commission, perhaps, were to write to the ipcc and suggest they get a new chairman, perhaps a tad better qualified?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am glad that we are debating these reports within the commissioner’s term, even if it is only just. the committee has worked hard to ensure that. now, in many – in fact i would say in most – things we have had a mutually supportive dialogue, commissioner, though of course we have not agreed on everything. for example, we agreed on vat for intra-community supplies but disagreed on joint and several liability in the framework of cross-border transactions, and in quite a few instances we have both been disappointed by the slowness or lack of backing by member states. ccctb is one of those proposals. but in the face of these disappointments you have brought forward more intensive, traditional controls based on cooperation, information exchange and data access. so both personally and as chair of the economic and monetary affairs committee i take this opportunity to thank you for your work and enthusiasm during your term of office. as colleagues have said, at this time of fiscal stress, enabling member states to collect their full dues of taxes is even more important. with this driving force the council must be more progressive in future. those who knowingly scheme to evade and avoid taxes do harm to society and should not expect leniency when they are caught, and we must have the tools to catch them. turning specifically to the matter of administrative cooperation, i believe that automatic exchange of information is beneficial. it goes along with the savings tax directive, which i hope will soon be adopted in council. but your activism in this matter has already created positive developments, both within and beyond the eu. i also commend the directive on mutual assistance for recovery of claims but consider a lower threshold for implementation more appropriate. and, finally, i apologise to you and colleagues for not staying for the rest of the debate but, as ever, there are double bookings going on in this house.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and other shadows for the hard work they have put into producing these reports. taxation, particularly any form of harmonisation, is always a sensitive issue. we need to balance the need to operate an efficient single market with the need to protect member state competence on taxation. i would advise mr lamberts that the best way to minimise tax evasion is to have simpler taxes and lower tax rates. tax competition is a jolly good thing. it protects the taxpayer from rapacious governments. member states must be free to sign bilateral agreements with third countries. the uk and the us readily share information because of their history of cooperation in fighting terrorism. if this information was to be shared across the eu, many third countries would refuse to sign similar agreements in the future. cooperation would cease and national security would be put at risk. i urge members to approach these reports pragmatically. we need to ensure that we do not indulge in needless harmonisation which endangers national security.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, taxation as a concept has not really changed very much in the last 3 000 years, has it? the rich and the powerful stealing money from ordinary people to make their own lives more comfortable. where there has been a change in modern times is that now taxation is ‘for the benefit of the taxed’: that somehow we are being taxed pro bono. in order to perpetuate this myth, we invent periodic scares to frighten people into submission. the latest of these scares is of course that, if we do not cough up green taxes, we will all boil to death – reminiscent of the medieval religions, is it not, which played the same game: pay up or burn in hell. tax harmonisation is a concept dreamed up by the modern political class to make sure that no government steals too little from its people: a sort of thieves’ cartel if you will. may i suggest, if you really want tax harmonisation, that the commission and the bureaucracy pay the same taxes as the electorate, that they bear the same burden of tax as the rest of us, before the electorate storm this building and hang us from the rafters, as they have every right to do.
mr president, with over eur 200 billion lost annually, combating tax fraud and tax evasion in the eu must continue to be a priority for this parliament, the european commission and the member state governments. i cannot believe that anyone in this house believes that a right to privacy is a right to evade tax. there is, of course, a global consensus that a lack of good governance in tax matters encourages tax fraud and tax evasion. tax fraud has a major impact on national budgets. it robs public services, health, education and research of vital resources. moreover, according to a major charity, tax evasion by the super-rich and by global corporations has a severe impact on the lives of more than five million children in the developing world. governments in the poorest developing countries are being swindled out of eur 92 billion a year in tax revenues, while the world bank estimates that just a third of that – eur 30 billion to eur 34 billion – would pay for the un’s millennium development goals. more shockingly still, a uk charity, christian aid, maintains that around eur 7 trillion is hidden away in tax havens. therefore the actions and recommendations proposed in these reports are essential to supporting a level playing field and to tackling the distortions and abuses which underpin those systems of tax evasion and fraud. assets held offshore are now equal to a third of global assets… (the president asked the speaker to speak more slowly for the sake of the interpreters.) …half of the world’s trade passes through tax havens, and action to crack down is already being stepped up. tax havens are under investigation, with proposals in the eu and in the oecd being taken forward. stronger tax cooperation is the only way forward. this does not weaken national sovereignty but, on the contrary, strengthens and enhances national tax systems, stopping those who seek to undermine the integrity and functioning of those systems. if we have learned one lesson from the global financial crisis, it is that we need more openness and transparency on financial transactions. that is why i support the proposals to move towards a global agreement and standard on automatic exchange of tax information tabled by our rapporteurs. i would like to finish by saying that those who seek to water down these proposals, hiding behind scaremongering on data privacy, are neither serious nor ambitious in supporting global action to tackle the scourge of tax evasion and to promote good governance, good citizenship and social responsibility.
mr president, tax fraud is a crime that not only robs governments, but also robs every single taxpayer – every single citizen who does pay their tax on time. there has been much good work by the oecd, the g20 and indeed the various rapporteurs in parliament on the work to help combat tax fraud. i would like to speak specifically on mr domenici’s report and to thank him for the great transparency that he has shown in working together across parliament to improve this document. however, i do have three concerns. the first one is that combating tax fraud should not be used as a back-door excuse for those who want to open up the debate on tax harmonisation across the eu. there is wording in the document about the common consolidated corporate tax base, and i think we should wait until the commission comes to us later on this year with their impact assessment before jumping to a conclusion on any of the pros and cons of that debate. the second point is on the controversial matter of exchange of information. it is very clear that in certain circumstances better exchange is needed, and indeed, like the savings tax, the automatic exchange does have benefits. this document goes much wider and demands automatic exchange in all areas. i would rather we looked at each specific circumstance to see where we need it. thirdly, the domenici report suggests an eu-wide levy on financial movements to and from certain jurisdictions. there are different sanctions and different incentives, as the commissioner has pointed out, that could be used to promote good behaviour in this area. i am very concerned that we could be going back with just one suggestion which could be hugely controversial by having these words about an eu-level levy.
mr president, discussing tax cooperation during the current euro crisis is rearranging deck chairs on the titanic. the southern nations are known in english by the harsh acronym pigs (portugal, italy, greece, and spain). however, those being crucified on the euro are not pigs but people, scourged by utopian one-size-fits-all dogma. their economies will either die of a thousand cuts or be bailed out to the ruin of taxpayers in britain and elsewhere. there will be very little tax to cooperate over. there are two ways out: either abolish the euro and return to the captive nations of this strawberry soviet their own currencies, or expel the ‘problem countries’ from the euro. that might be the pigs. more justly, it would be germany and her french collaborator, because running the euro according to german interests is the root of this shambles. this endless crisis will destroy the federal project – tax cooperation and all. the tragedy is that it will grind so many innocent victims into poverty before it does so.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 10 february 2010. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on gm/opel: current developments.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, may i first say that i have sympathy with the workers in antwerp, but i would like to point out another couple of issues regarding the eu and general motors. spyker cars becomes saab spyker in a eur 400 million deal but, make no mistake, this is not a normal commercial deal where one company pays and another company is paid. this is a commission-style deal which is more suited to a command economy. spyker pays, but using money from the european investment bank. in other words, the european taxpayer pays and the whole deal is underwritten by the swedish government. of course, only the risk is underwritten. general motors will still take a share of the profits and saab spyker will be obliged to buy fully assembled cars from another general motors plant, one located in that well-known european nation of mexico. why are we saving jobs in mexico with european taxpayers’ money? can we not rebody vectras at the ellesmere port plant in my constituency? for that is all saab has been reduced to. and it is also common knowledge that general motors and the european institutions have a special relationship. the european bank for reconstruction and development has pumped over eur 160 million into general motors’ operations in russia and ukraine, and it owns a 30% equity stake in the general motors manufacturing plant in st petersburg. so i would like to ask the commission why such extravagant financial support is available to countries such as ukraine and mexico but is never available to british companies. rover could have been saved for a fraction of the price, and jobs probably could have been saved at rolls royce in netherton on merseyside, in my constituency, but at the moment general motors jobs in my constituency in the north west of england are still at risk and yet the commission is using my constituents’ tax revenues to secure general motors jobs in mexico and russia.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by marc tarabella, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on equality between women and men in the european union – 2009 (com(2009)0077 – 2009/2101(ini)) (a7-0004/2010).
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, there is an ideology that is gaining ground in europe that teaches inequality between men and women. it says that women are of a lower status than men. it says that, under inheritance law, a man’s portion must be double that of a woman. it says that, in a court of law, two female witnesses are required against the testimony of a single male witness. it says that, in a rape trial, it takes four male witnesses to convict a man but the testimony of a female is not accepted, not even that of the raped woman. by the way, the four witnesses must be muslims, not non-muslims. you have guessed that i am speaking about sharia law. now, apparently, some muslims believe that suicide bombers are rewarded with 72 virgins in paradise, but i cannot find any reference that female suicide bombers are rewarded with the male equivalent. surely this is a case of blatant gender discrimination. the british government has already officially recognised sharia law in some tribunals. while bigamy is still illegal in the uk, polygamous islamic wives are officially recognised as dependants for the purposes of tax relief and benefits payments. europe is boldly marching backwards to sixth-century arabia. if we want genuine equality then individual european states must not recognise sharia law in any way, shape or form.
madam president, we female meps are definitely in a minority position. we have satisfying and stimulating work, with equal pay, equal pensions, equal access to positions of responsibility: so very different from so many of our constituents. i welcome this report and applaud the emphasis that mr tarabella puts on the economic well-being of women. i think this is the single most important factor in promoting gender equality. if women control their lives economically, they are much better able to control all other aspects of their lives. we must ensure that, in these challenging economic times, women are not left behind in low-paid, low-security jobs. i would like to congratulate the european engineering industries association for their recent policy vision, in which they ask for the promotion of maths and science studies, especially for women. they want, and i quote, ‘to bring in, in much greater numbers, skilled women who have for too long shunned many areas of engineering’. yes, the position of women is about policies, it is about direction, but it also about action: action which speaks louder than words. this is the way forward, with enlightened employers recognising women’s strengths and promoting their economic well-being.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, what we have before us here is the new government of europe, a government that with the lisbon treaty now has enormous powers, not just a foreign minister and embassies, not just the ability to sign treaties, but the ability now to use emergency powers to literally take countries over, and yet what we have heard from the european parliament’s big group leaders this morning is the demand that you take even more powers and do it even more quickly. perhaps it is worth reminding ourselves that this treaty that gives this commission these powers does not have democratic legitimacy in the european union at all. you ignored referendums, you denied referendums, and you bullied the poor irish into voting a second time. i am struck that the common denominator with this commission is the sheer number of them that were communists, or were very close to communism. mr barroso himself was a maoist. siim kallas, far from being a student activist, was even a member of the supreme soviets – we have top-notch communists there. baroness ashton ran cnd and still refuses to tell us whether she took money from the communist party of great britain. now i could go on but we would be here for some time. but we have at least 10 communists in this commission and it must feel like a return to the good old days. there must be certain nostalgia amongst the communists. whilst 60 years ago an iron curtain fell across europe, today we have the iron fist of the european commission. we have seen it with article 121 and with greece effectively being turned into a protectorate. poor greece, trapped inside the economic prison of the euro! poor greece, trapped inside the modern day völkerkerker for which it appears there is no way out! what greece needs, mr barroso, is devaluation, not sado-monetarism. goodness knows what that is going to do to them. in 1968, we had the brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty. today we have ‘shared values’. we have an ‘ever-closer european union’ and ‘pooled sovereignty’ and that is what you have used, but of course it will not just be greece, because the same is going to happen to spain, to portugal and to ireland. article 121 will be invoked with all of those. mr barroso, you said earlier that we will stick to our course, and that means millions of people in europe will be put through pain as you attempt to keep together this disastrous project that is the euro. it will fall to pieces; of that there can be no doubt, as surely as it did for britain during the exchange rate mechanism in 1992. you can laugh, you can smile. it will not work. it cannot work. it will fall to pieces, and, as far as the peoples of europe are concerned, the sooner it does the better. we need democratic solutions to this. if you go on pushing your extreme euro-nationalism, this will lead to violence. we must vote against this commission. we must put the future of europe to people in every member state in free and fair referendums.
mr president, i hope it is worth waiting for. i want to concentrate on the resolution on the framework agreement, having been part of parliament’s negotiating team. president barroso, we had, i think you will admit, some very interesting debates on the meaning of words, especially in my language, but one of the phrases you used at the beginning of our meetings was that you spoke about your absolute commitment to the ‘parliamentary dimension’ of the european union, and i think you were absolutely genuine and positive in your use of that phrase, yet we never discussed that one. post-lisbon, and post the resolution on the new framework agreement, this parliament is much more than a mere ‘dimension’ – it is a reality, a real force, a true parliament worthy of the name. you might, i suppose, call the original parliamentary assembly a ‘dimension’, but not this parliament. this parliament is now a full legislative partner, as per the resolution, to be treated on an equal, inclusive and informed basis with council and not to be by-passed by resort to soft law or other instruments, however worthy; a parliament fully and rightly able to hold your commission, as executive, to account. we look forward to seeing not only yourself, mr barroso, but all of your fellow commissioners here for a question hour before this chamber. this parliament will insist on its right of oversight in respect of subsequent changes to your team; this parliament is ready to play its proper role as the only transnational, directly elected parliament in international relations. but, above all, this new forceful parliament, containing a pro-european majority, wants you – please – to take a lead, and in that we will be your willing partner and supporter. but, please, we are no mere ‘dimension’; we are a true, real parliament.
mr president, the motion for a resolution from the greens/efa group calls for a new political approach at national and european level and for new ideas and firm action. we cannot overcome the economic, social and climate crisis we face using the same policies and mindset that created them; we cannot build a more democratic and more effective europe unless we do so within the real and changing political climate. today, in wales, the national assembly is starting the process for a referendum on more law-making powers. in catalonia, in scotland, in flanders and elsewhere there are changes taking place. tomorrow we discuss the enlargement of the eu to include countries currently outside its borders, but we have not even begun to address internal enlargement, the process whereby countries inside the eu’s borders gain independence. these questions have not been answered in the debates on the election of the new commission, despite the changes happening around us. i would ask president barroso, once again, to address those questions.
mr president, perhaps i can correct mr gollnisch. is mr gollnisch aware that baroness ashton was a pacifist not only in her youth but that she was vice-chairman of cnd at least until 1983, which is something she did not disclose?
mr president, our group strongly supports mr barroso and his reformist agenda for a europe that focuses on addressing the real concerns of our fellow citizens and on acting where it can add value to the efforts of our member states. we therefore believe that he deserved to receive a list of commission candidates with the talent and ability to help make a reality of his ambitious plans. but in some of these nominations he has been let down. nothing can disguise the fact that the experience and competence of the candidates varies greatly, and this was obvious in our hearings. it is unacceptable that the leaders of some member states still treat the formation of the commission as an opportunity to reward a colleague for past support, to resolve a local political difficulty or to ease a ministerial friend into a comfortable pre-retirement. it is clear that some member states are taking advantage of the fact that we only have a single vote on the whole commission in order to ease in candidates who might not succeed on their own merits. the single vote must end. we must vote on individual candidates, for only then will all member states take their responsibility with regard to this process more seriously and send to the commission the most able candidates available.
mr president, i must raise what i believe is a very important issue in relation to the united kingdom. currently in the uk we enjoy an opt-out from the 48-hour working week. however, after listening to mr andor at the hearings – i have nothing against mr andor personally – i am very concerned about the direction in which i believe he will take us. it is quite likely, in my view, that the uk will lose the opt-out. if we do, three million people in our country are going to lose out on this. they enjoy working extra hours. our retained fire service in the uk – in particular in my region, wales, where 75% of it is covered by retained officers – is under threat. we have a general election coming soon, and i call upon all the british meps present today to vote against the new commission on the basis that, if this 48-hour working opt-out is lost for the good people of my country, it will cause us grave consequences. it is up to them. the three million people will be watching how they vote, as i will.
mr president, structural funds have been so important for regions like wales in the past and currently. they have helped many individuals, communities and businesses. they have been particularly important during recent difficult economic times. therefore it is vital that all these groups can benefit from structural funds in the future. i believe a structural fund should be available to all regions across europe if they qualify post-2013. i think we should rule out the renationalisation of structural funds and i particularly welcomed the comments from the commissioner-designate for the budget and financial programming, who stated his opposition to the renationalisation of cohesion policy and structural funds. i also think it is vital that funding does not suddenly stop in 2013 for all the groups i mentioned. therefore i believe that it is important that transitional status is made available for regions which fall out of convergence post-2013. i would hope the commission gives cohesion policy and structural funds the priority it deserves in the coming weeks and months.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, some member states believe the nomination of a commissioner is a useful opportunity to sort out a domestic problem or settle a political debt. the european commission should bring together the most talented and effective political leaders from across europe, people with experience and competence to help it address the enormous challenges we face. after years of institutional wrangling, europe needs to refocus its efforts on delivering results in areas where it can add value to the work of the member states, and where our fellow citizens expect the nations of europe to cooperate. it must support efforts to nurture fragile economic recovery and to generate growth and jobs, and has to play a leading role in tackling energy security and climate change. it must propose central reforms to the european budget and many of the key expenditure programmes. in mr barroso we have the right leader to take the commission forward. in his political guidelines he outlines an ambitious agenda to focus on the issues that matter, an agenda which in general we support. every single member state should have backed his efforts by sending the strongest possible nominee as commissioner, and in some cases he has been badly let down. of course he must back every member of his team – we would expect nothing less from a leader in his position – and, in organising his team, although we question some portfolios, he has probably done his best with what he has got. but whilst some nominees are excellent and performed well in the hearings, others are mediocre and made a poor impression. some distanced themselves from his own political guidelines. mr president, if the vote is favourable, we will of course engage constructively with every commissioner and we still hope to be positively surprised, but please let us at least have an annual assessment by this parliament of the commission. this is still a fundamentally flawed process and one we cannot endorse fully. for these reasons, the european conservatives and reformists will today abstain on this vote. some groups are disunited; we are united in that position.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in generations to come children will be told a story. they will be told that once upon a time europe was divided; there was a big wall down the middle of it and the people in the east were very poor and they had no democracy, and they lived under an evil system called communism that killed millions of its own people. but, joy of joys, the wall came down and we finished up with 27 nations, and those people lived in democracy and 500 million people lived in peace… ( applause)there is more. i promise you, there is more. (applause)well, i must say that is the first time i have ever received such applause and i am tempted, mr verhofstadt, to sit down but, if i may, sadly, the story continues. the politicians in charge became very greedy; they wanted money for themselves and they wanted power. so they resorted to lies and deceit, they staged the most spectacular bureaucratic coup d’état that the world had ever seen. but they did not need to use any bullets to do it. they were much cleverer, much more scheming than that. what they did is they put in place a new treaty – it was called the lisbon treaty. then they gave 27 people total unlimited power. these would have been the people who made all the laws. of course, they already had a flag, and they already had an anthem, but they went about building a new state. but they ignored the people. what they did, whether they knew it or not, was to recreate the very evil system that the people in eastern europe had lived under before. but the incredible thing was that many of the new bosses had also worked for that same evil system before. well, of course, the plan was flawed and their fanciful monetary scheme collapsed. but, still, the new bosses would not listen to the people. no, they made life tougher and tougher: they put tens of millions into poverty; they denied people a say and, in the end, those people had to resort to violence to get back their nation states and their democracies. the moral of the story is that they had learnt nothing from history. members of the european parliament, before you give this commission power, remember that 60 years ago an iron curtain came down on europe but now, with this commission, there is an economic iron fist and it is being felt in greece today. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, no one in this house can really believe that out of 500 million europeans, these 27 candidates are the most qualified to be european commissioners. the commission has exorbitant powers. while being the european executive, it is the initiator of legislation. but who are we going to appoint to exercise those powers? a series of compromise candidates appointed by national governments as a token of gratitude for services rendered or simply to keep out rivals. take, for example, the candidate from my own country, baroness ashton. we are told that the french government is opposed to her because she does not speak french. but, mr president, that is the least of his faults! baroness ashton never bothered to challenge universal suffrage. how can the european union give lessons in democracy to iran or cuba when this woman, who heads its foreign service, is herself an unelected official? baroness ashton and her federalist friends call us anti-european. but if she and her friends in the campaign for nuclear disarmament had won the battle, our continent would have remained divided and hundreds of millions of europeans would still be subject to marxist tyranny. no one is a true european. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, baroness ashton and her federalist friends are calling us anti-european. but if she and her friends in the campaign for nuclear disarmament had won the battle, our continent would have remained divided and hundreds of millions of europeans would still be subject to marxist tyranny. no true european and no true democrat can in good conscience support these candidates. by voting for them, only for their support for european integration, this parliament is judging itself.
mr president, when you look at the gallery of candidates that were there before us today, i think most people across the house, regardless of their politics, would have said that some were good, some might have been very, very good, some were bad and some were just pretty poor. unfortunately, some of them have also not answered all the questions about their past. but, as members of the european parliament, we are unable to vote on the individual commissioners, so we had a choice whether to vote for all of them en bloc or to reject them. that is very sad and to be regretted and, for that reason, i abstained. we heard mr barroso talk about a europe that responds to a crisis. if we really want to respond to a crisis, let us make sure we are not piling on more and more inappropriate regulation. let us make sure that we have proper impact assessments on any directive or regulations. take as a case in point the directive on alternative investment fund managers, which will reduce the amount of money available to entrepreneurs in europe, which will drive creators of wealth out of the european union and which will reduce investment in developing countries. if only we were able to reduce the amount of regulation going through this place!
mr president, i was elected by the people of the south east of england to reform the eu. block voting for all the 27 commissioners with one vote is business as usual: not reform, not transparency, not accountability, not responsible confirmation. mr barroso has my personal confidence; so do some of the other commissioners with whom i have had dealings in the past. but that does not mean a vote of confidence in the whole college of commissioners. each commissioner is unique in political history. no other person in a so-called democracy has the power to initiate, legislate and execute the same legislation and not be elected individually by anybody. this is wholly unacceptable, mr president, and therefore i regretfully had to abstain.
mr president, i voted against the commission because i do not want to be governed by a european commission of any composition, but there are particular reasons for voting against this one. a number of its members were members of the communist party, or were associated with it. for example, they include mr barroso, mr šefčovič, mr füle, mr piebalgs and mr potočnik, to name just a few. baroness ashton was treasurer of the campaign for nuclear disarmament, which was little better than a communist-front organisation, and a proportion of its funding came from the soviet bloc. she is not fit to be responsible for foreign security and defence policy. the noble baroness worked to undermine the defence policy of her own country when we faced the gravest threat – a nuclear threat – from our enemies. the commission is the new de facto government of the european union. europe is sleep-walking towards disaster. we are now governed by communists, collaborators and quislings.
in writing. − whilst we agree with those parts of the proposal that provide for the equal treatment of parliament with the council with regard to access to meetings and to information; for regular dialogue between the president of the commission and the president of the parliament; cooperation on citizens’ initiatives; impact assessments on legislation; and the use of ‘soft law’ (rather than punitive law?); we disagree with: a reaffirmation and strengthening of compulsory time limits for the implementation of directives; and the use of congratulatory language about the european union and its officers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new framework agreement between the parliament and commission. with the lisbon treaty now in force, this house has acquired increased powers and our working relationship with the commission must adapt accordingly. i particularly welcome the section in the new agreement requiring the commission president to fully respond to the parliament in the event of this house withdrawing its confidence in a commissioner. whilst i voted today in favour of the new commission, i object to the all-or-nothing system whereby parliament must approve or reject the commission as a whole. any procedure which enhances our capability to hold individual commissioners to account is to be welcomed.
in writing. − some might be surprised that we should support a motion by the gue/ngl group. whilst we find ourselves agreeing with some of the group’s criticism of the european union, our view of what should replace the eu would be quite different. furthermore, our ideologies are completely different. we are nationalists, valuing the sovereignty of the nation state. they are internationalists. we believe in a system that is based on private enterprise, with some regulation, and with some ownership of public utilities, whilst they would, presumably, believe in much more state ownership. we agree with: the rejection of neo-liberal economic policies; the need for greater social justice (though we might differ on definitions); and criticism of the evasion, incoherence and inadequate answers of some commissioners. however, we are pleased to vote with anybody, if we agree with what they propose.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new college of commissioners. from the viewpoint of scotland, the nation which i represent, there are significant issues and challenges for the new commissioners to address. with reform of the cfp and the cap on the horizon, scotland’s key interests in these policies must be recognised and i call upon the commissioners concerned to ensure that scotland’s coastal and rural communities are allowed to flourish socially and economically. scotland being a major potential source of energy production, especially in renewable sources, the commission should prioritise projects and initiatives which will assist in developing scotland’s massive potential as a supplier of clean green energy. as a member of a pro-eu party, i hope that this commission can recover some of the faith in the eu which has been lost by many scots, for example as a direct result of scotland’s experiences of the failed common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i welcome the appointment of the new commission, and look forward to seeing the commission delivering on the promises made. i am particularly pleased at the confirmation of cathy ashton as high representative, and am sure that her quiet diplomacy will be of benefit to europe as a whole.
in writing. − we want a pragmatic european commission that will push through reform, including deregulation and reductions in eu expenditure, focusing on managerial issues rather than political integration. while some of the nominated commissioners are competent, others are not. the post of high representative is a product of the lisbon treaty. i do not approve of that treaty or its creations. it has no democratic legitimacy. baroness ashton was chosen through a back-room deal among europes socialist parties, an afterthought by the british prime minister. besides having no experience of the required tasks, she has a highly dubious past as national treasurer of cnd. this subversive organisation sought to disarm britain unilaterally at the height of the cold war, and spread alarm and despondency. there are many nominees with communist backgrounds. some nominees, such as lászló andor, demonstrated little understanding of their portfolios and seemed inclined to impose more and more unhelpful regulation. it is quite wrong that parliament cannot vote on individual commissioners but must vote on the college as a whole. while i could approve some individuals, others i would vote against. in the interests of the solidarity of our group, i abstained.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, sovereign debt spreads have widened dramatically over recent months for certain euro member states, leading to much speculation in the markets about defaults, bail-outs and even the viability of certain member states within the euro framework. the eu, through the ecb, cannot impose fiscal criteria on these member states. nevertheless, the effects of this crisis have repercussions for the eu and the ecb in terms of having to orchestrate a solution, international confidence in the euro model and the future smooth operation of the euro sovereign debt markets. we have spent a lot of time and energy in the last year investigating procedures, oversight, transparency and effective risk management of international capital market participants. these measures affect the secondary market in securities, but i believe there is a strong case to apply the same principles to the primary market, particularly in the unique situation of the eurozone debt-issuing members. specifically in the uk, northern rock became insolvent as it raised money in the short-term markets to fund long-term liabilities. when the market questioned the business model and refused to lend, the business model de facto collapsed. certain euro member states are facing the same issues right now. i propose that the ecb, whilst not having any power over budgets or capital-raising, can have an input over the debt maturity profile if it felt that a member state is over exposed through short-term market movements. greece has to raise eur 31 billion over the next few weeks. portugal has to roll over existing debt equivalent to 17% of its gdp at a time when france also has to roll over existing debt equivalent to 20% of its gdp. the maturity profile of debt is left to member states, but the cumulative effect of tapping the market simultaneously leaves the eu exposed in times of crisis, leading to difficulties in raising capital in the markets. in the eurozone, perhaps the ecb should have an oversight of accumulative debt issuance and advise member states on responsible management. in conclusion, a simple first step would be for the eu, and specifically eurozone member states, to have a sustainable debt maturity strategy as the absolute debt level at this time is less important than the amount of debt which is up for renewal.
madam president, there is a natural relationship between the current health of a state’s economy and the value of its currency. as the economy grows, so should the value of its currency so that it can enjoy the cheapness of goods and services that it chooses to import. equally, as an economy stagnates or even declines, so will the value of its currency leading to an export boom and recovery of the economy, assuming of course its manufacturing and service industries have not been destroyed by globalisation. however, the currency of a nation trapped in the euro straitjacket cannot adjust to the needs of its economy and people. this crippled britain between 1990 and 1992 when we were in the exchange rate mechanism. now it is strangling greece and other client states of the euro. this should be a warning for any country outside the eurozone. join us at your peril. in the short term you will see the needs of your economy unattended. when you do decide to withdraw, you will be faced with a debt to the eurozone that has been inflated by your own devalued currency.
madam president, what is the future of the euro in the light of the problems in greece and for that matter, spain, italy, portugal and ireland? it must be of some reassurance to the uk that we never joined the euro. it seems promises of strength through solidarity could not be further from the truth. the problem for the 16 nations in the eurozone is who pulls the purse strings. with little fiscal coordination and no treasury, membership of the euro is by no means an elixir for good economic health. it turns out that, when all turns sour, no one will bail you out. instead they take the opportunity to seize greater control while you are on your knees. we must wait to see how greece will react to becoming an economic protectorate of the european union and whether it will bring civil unrest. is this really the european dream? who is next, spain, portugal, italy or ireland? perhaps member states, and especially the eurozone states, should think long and hard about the here and now before turning attention to talks on economic policy post-2020, when there might not even be a euro to protect. mr barroso this morning talked about the european dream: for the good people of greece, it has become the european nightmare.
the next item is the council and commission statements on progress made on resettling guantánamo detainees and on closing guantánamo.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, some european governments actively participated in illegal rendition, torture and illegal detention. others gave background support. others pretended not to see. so it was not something that just happened ‘over there’. that is one of the reasons we have kept our continuing interests. of course meps spent many years calling for the closure of guantánamo, so we warmly welcome the announcement by president obama and we understand the difficulties in unravelling the mess left by george bush. however, it is extremely frustrating that nearly 200 men remain there. we also fully welcome the federal trials for people like khalid sheikh mohammed, but why did it not happen eight years ago? the best response to the terrorists is criminal convictions. we will continue to push eu governments to take more detainees for resettlement, both out of transatlantic solidarity and out of guilt at their own complicity, and we will resist chinese threats regarding the uighurs. it does not help that the united states is unable to settle any of the 17 uighurs in us territory. my own constituent, shaker aamer, a legal uk resident whose family of a british wife and four british children live in battersea in london, is still, after eight years, marooned in legal limbo in guantánamo. he appears to be the victim of pass-the-parcel, whereby the us and uk governments may be colluding to bundle him off to his home country saudi arabia. he is a direct witness to his own and others’ torture, not only by the us but by uk secret agents. this would be very convenient in preventing his testimony before uk courts. we do, as i say, welcome the efforts to close guantánamo, but we oppose military commissions and other continuing abuses. europe must do more as well.
mr czarnecki, will you accept a question from mrs hautala?
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i come from the west midlands, the home of the so-called ‘tipton taliban’, who were detained at guantánamo. as a ukip mep, i must agree that seizure and deportation of people from one country to be tried in another, without judicial oversight, and to face foreign imprisonment, is an alien process. it is an affront to liberty, democracy, accountability and natural human rights. i can give you a list of british citizens who have been forced into imprisonment in this way, into squalid and unfit jails, not at the hands of the cia and its rendition programme, but at the hands of the eu member states under the european arrest warrant which this house created. it was made in the eu. so, before you condemn the usa, look in the mirror and see your own hypocrisy.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on:– the oral question to the council on key objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in doha, 13-25 march 2010, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0145/2009 – b7-0003/2010), and– the oral question to the commission on key objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in doha, 13-25 march 2010, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0146/2009 – b7-0004/2010).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today is supposed to represent a new start for europe, but what have we here? we have a commissioner and a minister just going through the motions. no fault to you, commissioner, but please go back to the college and say we need to debate with the commissioners responsible for the briefs in question. it is almost as shameful as this resolution before us, which just highlights species after species facing extinction: a real reflection of mankind’s failure to plan for the future. of course, this issue of bluefin tuna, which no doubt will dominate the debate, really highlights the issue, it focuses it, and it is of course a species purely in european waters. the most expensive fish in the world, each one selling for tens of thousands of euros. japan is stockpiling en masse. japan, where apparently the word ‘conservation’ actually means buy en masse, kill the fish, and freeze them for 20 or 30 years so that they can be eaten in a couple of decades time. there will be no fish left in the mediterranean by then, but people will still be able to eat sushi if they can afford the bill. this is a case where even organised crime is involved in the fishing industry, and it is not surprising when so much money is to be made. the mafia gets involved in this business. and then you look at iccat, the international council for the conservation of tuna. ‘conservation of tuna’! species have dropped by 80 to 90%. we are facing extinction and you have a body which is set up supposedly to look after the tuna! it has failed completely. the targets which it has set itself will fail completely. it ignores scientific advice; it keeps setting quotas far, far too high. now some members will say appendix ii is enough, but there is no evidence of that. appendix ii will make no difference. they will come back in few years’ time and say, ‘sorry, got it wrong’. there will be no tuna left. so let us back the proposal that this fish be cited on appendix i. let us just remember it is time we tried to control mankind’s greed; it is time we tried to give a bit of thought to the future of our seas.
mr president, i welcome the assurances we have been given here this evening that the eu will not support any proposals which would lead to an increase in illegal ivory poaching, yet i am dismayed to hear that the commission then goes on to state that any proposals to downgrade the african elephant from cites appendix i to appendix ii need to be assessed objectively on the basis of the rules laid down by cites. these two statements are in direct contradiction to each other. any discussion of relaxing the protection afforded to elephants under the cites convention will send a green light to poachers in the hope that soon there will be a market for their illegal and cruelly acquired goods. zambia and tanzania are in violation of the convention as they did not consult all the elephant range states as required in resolution 9.24 of the cites criteria for amendments. we expect the commission and council to ensure that the constitution of cites, and the agreed moratorium, are respected. how do they intend to prevent the illegal proposals from tanzania and zambia from being placed on the agenda in the very first place?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, amendment 1 of this housing resolution proposes to extend use of the european regional development fund to all member states, not just those joining in 2004. so this is directly relevant to britain. it is clear from the resolution that the roma population is the largest marginalised community in the report receiving support, plus others of similar socioeconomic condition. the overall budget for the european cohesion policy is a staggering eur 347 billion over seven years – larger than many economies, even. my constituents in east anglia are already deeply concerned at the scale of the traveller and gypsy communities, particularly so in essex. they will be angry should any of these measures facilitate yet more eu mass immigration. britain has already seen a rise in population of three and a half million – half the size of london – in the 12 years since the labour government came to power in 1997. given, too, that nearly nine out of ten new british homes – 86% – will be due to immigration over the next 30 years, proposals like these seem to be yet another bridgehead for major immigration into britain. we do not have the room. it is about space, not race. controlled immigration through permits and visas is a good thing, but uncontrolled immigration is a bad thing, for that is the fast route to extremism, which none of us desire.
mr president, the problem which this report and its amendments on european regional development funding allegedly seeks to address is the one of the homeless or, as the report terms them, the marginalised communities. the eu solution is to throw millions of euros at renovating and building thousands of houses. this report initially concerned itself with funding housing in member states that had acceded to the eu on or after 1 may 2004. now funds are to be disbursed to all member states. according to the 2007 south west observatory report for the south-western counties in england, the region’s population has been increasing rapidly, entirely because of migration. despite strong and growing public opposition to these developments, and the unsuitability of many proposed building sites, the eu house-building programme in britain thunders on in complete disregard of democratic processes. the south west leaders’ council has now assumed control of, and approval for, planning – a classic eu example of statutory powers being vested in a non-statutory body. the public mood in britain is one of growing dismay. unlimited, uncontrolled immigration is feeding public anger. funding to support house building in britain, and encouraging even greater numbers of immigrants to come to our shores, only exacerbates an already volatile situation. unless, as originally intended, this report addresses only those countries which joined the eu on or after 1 may 2004, the way of life in britain, particularly in rural areas, will significantly change with a correspondingly violent resentment from the british people.
mr president, i know that this report is specifically in relation to roma families and other specific groups. i want to stress that all people deserve and need social housing that is fit for purpose. however, this parliament should not forget that there are many people in ordinary communities, either in the inner cities or in rural areas, who live in very poor housing and who find it impossible to access decent housing. these people need to know that this parliament recognises their need. they are just as marginalised, whether it is through poverty, drugs or crime. one issue that is causing concern to providers of social housing in northern ireland is the rules around public procurement. and, while they are intended to promote fair competition across the european union, they are having unintended negative effects on the development of badly needed social housing in marginalised communities, mainly because of the difficulty of obtaining land in what was until recently a speculators’ market. northern ireland has been seriously affected by this and last year the problem meant that replacements had to be found in the social housing programme for 500 out of 1 500 houses that were planned. these are issues that we need to address as well. i would encourage this house to look at this as part of the problem of housing in marginalised communities.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group favours enlargement of the european union. we see not only significant benefits in a larger single market, but we also look – unlike some members of this house – for a dilution of the federalist ambition at the heart of the european union. however, candidates must be subject to rigorous and exacting standards as laid out in the copenhagen criteria. we therefore fully endorse the commission’s thorough approach to preparing candidates for membership and its willingness to learn the lessons of previous enlargements, in particular the most recent ones to bulgaria and romania, where there were outstanding problems in the areas of organised crime and corruption. croatia, along with iceland – if approved as a candidate – is undoubtedly the country most ready to join the european union, and its accession will help stabilise the western balkans. while recognising that a border dispute with slovenia remains outstanding, we do not think that bilateral disputes can be allowed to delay croatia’s membership. italy, after all, did not stop slovenia joining in spite of border and minority disputes at the time. as the commission report makes clear, croatia has also made some substantial progress in meeting the negotiating benchmarks, and the country’s commitment to the eu’s expectations remains strong. macedonia is also now fully back on track towards membership, and we welcome its eu visa liberalisation, along with serbia and montenegro, and support immediate calls now to the council to allow the opening of negotiations for membership for macedonia. the ecr group believes that the almost comical name dispute with greece should be resolved sensibly and rapidly. president ivanov has helped to add momentum to macedonia’s eu ambitions, and we hope his request to meet the newly re-elected president of greece will be reciprocated in the spirit of friendship and neighbourhood relationships. meanwhile, turkey’s eu membership application remains problematic, not least in the field of human rights. the recent horrifying case of a teenage girl buried alive for talking to boys simply gives ammunition to those who say that turkey has no place in the european union. its failure to recognise cyprus or implement the ankara protocols, as well as stalling in the ratification of the treaty to re-establish relations with armenia, is a disappointment. finally, as permanent rapporteur of the parliament for montenegro, i should just like to add that in my view, having recently visited this country, it is well on its way to candidate status, and i hope to see that happen as soon as possible. lastly, i too would like to take the opportunity on behalf of my group, the ecr group, to congratulate commissioner füle on his electoral appointment yesterday, and my group will be fully cooperating with him in his challenging tasks ahead.
mr president, first could i repeat in public my own congratulations to commissioner füle. we got you up early this morning on your first day in the job, and i think it will not be the only time that we do so. in turkey there is significant public scepticism that the eu will keep its promise and, just as you confront scepticism amongst some of our publics within the eu, your challenge, commissioner, is to be fair and objective – and, yes, that wins public trust. but also to put the positive case for enlargement, to win over sceptic publics, and our group will support you in doing so. on turkey, the socialist and democrat group remains pro-accession, pro-reform. the commission’s progress report says that reform efforts have been resumed but should be intensified. we agree. so, on this first report during the five years of this parliament, let me focus my opening remarks on how we as a parliament should deal with turkey. to the rapporteur, i respect your sincere commitment to pursuing consensus in this house and i thank you for your cooperation. i hope in future years you will seek agreement of the political groups before submitting plenary amendments to agreed compromises at committee as our differences are small. but the real test of your rapporteurship and for this parliament is to ensure that we use our influence to secure, year by year, steady progress in shepherding turkey towards accession, and that requires leadership here as well as in the country. to our cypriot colleagues we understand the pain of injustice you feel. in our group we have sought to include you fully in our consensus, but we are determined at this crucial time to seek to take positions which support reconciliation efforts to provide justice to both communities and not to prejudge their outcome on behalf of either side. to others in this house, constructive criticism of turkey is needed; we ourselves are critical friends. but to those who speak in this debate opposing turkey, we say that you are a minority; too many of you are motivated by religious intolerance against islam and seeking your own political advantage by deliberately creating false fears about immigration. these arguments are loathsome and repellent, and so are you. finally, to the majority of this house who want turkey’s accession, we have to say so again and again. the shrill voice of the rejectionist must not be allowed to drown us out. we expect our turkish counterparts to continue to make painful changes in their own society with difficult impact on their domestic politics. these reforms are good in their own right, but, those of us who say in this parliament we want accession: we have to make their pain worthwhile by ourselves doing what we say, opening and closing chapters on merit, delivering the promises of the council, ourselves acting in good faith.
mr president, it is not often that i agree with mrs flautre, but i do agree with many of the remarks she has just made. first of all could i call for more honesty in our approach to turkey. i am sure all of us want good relations with turkey and many of us, probably the majority, wish to see turkey one day as a member of the european union, a different european union to what is being developed today. it is because some recognise that turkish accession would inevitably change the nature of the eu project, driving as it is towards unwanted political integration, that they are so resistant to it. i have one or two questions for the commission. what has happened to the negotiations with turkey? why are so few chapters open? at a time when in all our countries we have serious concerns about energy security, and turkey is in such a key geographical position in providing the routes for pipelines from the caspian, why is the energy chapter not open? and, with presidential elections imminent in cyprus, and unification talks in progress, cyprus is very much on our minds. turkey of course can hardly ever be discussed in this chamber without reference to cyprus but perhaps it would be more helpful if instead of always criticising turkey the eu endeavoured to provide it with more support on this issue. why do we just call on turkey to use its influence when greece and the republic of cyprus, both eu members, have a crucial role to play? i agree that the turkish garrison in northern cyprus should be much reduced. in fact, i regularly propose to turkish emissaries that a unilateral reduction in troops would be a bold confidence-building measure, but we all know that had the annan plan been put into effect, the turkish troop presence would have been reduced to a mere 650 and the greek presence to 950. it is scandalous that no real progress has been made in opening international trade with northern cyprus. why has the european union not kept its promise given in may 2004 to end the isolation of northern cyprus? of all the places in the world where the eu might actually play a useful role and exert some benign influence, cyprus stands out – yet we are absent. let us not blame turkey for the eu’s internal difficulties.
mr president, like many other colleagues within this chamber this morning, i would appeal for honesty and realism in the debate in relation in particular to turkey. i welcome those colleagues who have asked for proactive support for cyprus in reaching some sort of resolution with turkey. i want to turn our attention very quickly to one aspect of this that has come to my attention, and that is the plight of many of the citizens whom i represent who are suffering grave financial loss as a result of property scams within turkey. since i became an mep in july i have been contacted by many constituents who have invested substantial sums of money in properties, ranging from eur 50 000 to eur 150 000, and who have subsequently lost out on that investment in what, in many cases, looks like blatant fraudulent activity. i would request that the commission look into this and act proactively in relation to it.
mr president, i welcome the accession reports and i want to speak specifically on macedonia and croatia, and then turkey. i am pleased to follow my distinguished friend, mr brok, who mentioned the copenhagen criteria. can i reinforce that the copenhagen criteria are non-negotiable, especially when it comes to minority rights and human rights, and macedonia and croatia are therefore failing to reflect the community acquis, especially as regards non-discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. i would say to both of those countries that the accession procedure is an opportunity to bring your laws into line and to explain to your citizens the need to do so, and that once you join this club you do not join a club which is based on an à la carte menu. we will enforce the acquis rigorously, and especially article 19, which gives the union the right to combat discrimination on the grounds of – and it is a very important list – race, ethnicity, religion, belief, age, disability and sexual orientation. why is this important? because one person could experience discrimination on each separate ground, and to do nothing on one is to make irrelevant all the good that you have done on the other. i therefore say that lesbian, gay and bisexual rights are non-negotiable. bring in anti-discrimination legislation now. the litmus test of any civilisation is not how it treats its majority, but how it treats the minorities that make up that majority. on turkey, there has been progress, and i am pleased to quote ban ki-moon, who says that there has been progress on cyprus. we in parliament should welcome that. mrs dodds is right: if we are going to be a part of the resolution we have to be absolutely honest and bring the sides together. but again, on anti-discrimination, i wish them to go further. non-discrimination is in the constitution, but it needs to be reflected in the laws, especially again in relation to lesbians, gay men, bisexual and transgendered people who are often murdered for no other reason than they are transsexual. so, allow turkey to proceed along this route, on the same terms, the same conditions. if we undermine the principles of accession, we have no principles left.
mr president, mr lambsdorff made an accusation against the united kingdom. i would ask him to point out to the house where the united kingdom is in breach of its treaty obligations.
mr president, greetings to commissioner füle. the talks between mr christofias and mr talat are, as we know, at a critical stage. for them to succeed, a settlement has to be carried by public opinion. confidence-building is sorely required. turkey should send signals. unfortunately, the trade dossier appears to be completely blocked, so starting to pull out troops is a difficult, but clever, gesture to build up public support in the south and in the north, to show that the prospect of a permanent settlement is actually genuine. we all appreciate that, if the cypriot problem is not solved now, the prospects for progress with turkey’s accession are poor indeed. the time to act is now. i do hope that the commission is going to respond to the several speakers who brought up the cypriot question as part of its response to the debate.
madam president, i would like to speak on the issue of turkey. my concern is that in 2003 the uk independence party, of which i am a member, stated in this parliament that there would be dire consequences regarding migrants from new member states coming to our country, the united kingdom. my fear is that, if turkey joins, 70 million people will be allowed to come into the uk. the united kingdom is full. we have millions of people unemployed. the pressure on our public services is incredible. the thought of turkey joining is not on at all. we have been denied a choice. the people in our country have been denied a vote on lisbon. we certainly need a discussion in our country about whether we should be in the european parliament or not. i fear that turkey joining will be the straw that breaks the camel’s back. i am convinced that we are now in a position where the whole european situation is about to crumble, with the euro and so forth. the addition of turkey joining will just make matters far, far worse. commissioner, it is your first day at work. i would like to mark your card. take it from me, as a person from wales in the united kingdom, we just do not want turkey to join.
mr president, the opinion that the european parliament will vote now on the commission’s proposal for a directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation does not prejudice the final position that the parliament will take with regard to the implementation of article 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the consequences for the procedures based on council decision 1999/468/ec of 28 june 1999, especially as regards the regulatory procedure with scrutiny or the position that the parliament may wish to take on delegated acts in other legislation.
mr president, the greatest constraint on a government is external competition. a state can raise its taxes only up to a certain level before the money begins to go abroad and the revenues dwindle. as milton friedman put it, competition between governments in their delivery of services and their levels of taxation is every bit as productive as competition between companies and individuals. this is why it is so distressing to see the european union going down the road towards tax harmonisation and the export of high costs from one country to another. if there was one theme which came out of these recent commission nomination hearings, it was the desire for a dedicated revenue stream for the european union and for a measure of tax harmonisation. that explains why the european union’s share of world gdp is dwindling; why we have fallen from 36% 20 years ago to 25% today and we are scheduled to fall to 15% in 10 years’ time. the good news is that the electorate does not like it. like the people of massachusetts, the people of europe do not want taxation without representation, and i am sure they will vote accordingly.
mr president, most people, when looking at this title, would say that cooperation seems a reasonable thing. who could possibly disagree with cooperation? until you look into the details of what is often meant when people discuss tax cooperation within the eu and at eu level. take the example of a plucky country like the cayman islands. unlike the green and socialist dream of keeping developing countries poor so we can send them our aid money and mitigate white middle-class guilt, this country has actually tried to pull itself out of poverty – not being dependent on bananas or sugars but dependent on high-level services like financial services. but, when the cayman islands tries to do this, people right across the eu – politicians in this place – complain about it. it does not avoid taxation. what it tries to do is avoid double taxation. people from eu countries still pay tax within their member states. it is time to stop this imperialism.
mr president, if you were to list the countries with the wealthiest citizens, the states with the highest per capita gdp in the world, you would be struck by the fact that a lot of them are very small. the top 10 is dominated by microstates: liechtenstein, luxembourg, brunei, jersey and so on. the first big state to make it into the list of wealthy countries is the united states because it pulls off the extraordinary trick of governing itself like a confederation of statehoods, devolving enormous legislative and fiscal autonomy to its constituent parts. this is why it is so tragic to hear only yesterday the new president of the european council talking about the need for european economic governance in response to the financial crisis in greece. it is precisely when government becomes bigger and more remote that it becomes more inefficient and more wasteful and more corrupt. if colleagues doubt that, then i suggest they look around them.
mr president, friday will mark one month since the devastating earthquake in haiti. the death toll is now believed to be 230 000, with 300 000 injured. this should cause us to do all that we can to ensure survivors are given assistance to rebuild their lives and their country. i supported the joint resolution put forward for that reason, but want to put on record my opposition to the concept of a european civil protection force.
mr president, during the debate on this resolution we saw once again the way in which this house elevates the virtual over the real, the symbolic over the actual. there was all this talk about the need to put an eu flag on aid to haiti and about the need to establish the principle of a european civil protection force. baroness ashton came in for a lot of criticism for not having been there to put a european face on things. meanwhile, of course, the americans were delivering real aid in the most extraordinarily swift manner. and what thanks did they get? they were accused by a french minister of having occupied the country. neatly, we see how the american’s place is always in the wrong in this house. if he intervenes, he is imperialist. if he does not, he is isolationist. i would just stand back and ask whether the european union does not have rather more pressing concerns closer to home than whether it puts flags on things in the caribbean. greece is on the verge of fiscal collapse. we are about to mandate a bail-out in plain violation of article 125 of the treaties. when we have put our own house in order, then perhaps we will be in a position to lecture others.
mr president, at his very first press conference following his appointment as president of the european council, herman van rompuy celebrated the fact that 2009 was the first year of global governance and he looked forward explicitly to the copenhagen summit as a step towards the economic global management of our planet. it is a pity that a number of people have jumped onto the environmental agenda as a way of advancing a different agenda, an agenda that has at its core the desire to take power away from elected national politicians and concentrate it in the hands of international technocracies. the tragedy is not just that we become less democratic: it is that we lose the consensus that we might have had for tackling environmental problems. left or right, conservative or socialist, we can all agree that we want a diversity of supply for energy, and that we do not want pollutants being pumped into the atmosphere, but only one set of policies is being applied – those that involve statism and corporatism – the same policies in fact which have failed politically and societally are now being applied to the environment. the environment is altogether too important to be left to the left.
mr president, when we listen to the discussion here in parliament, there are many colleagues here who lament the fact that the eu was not listened to in the recent discussions in copenhagen. maybe we should consider why that was. let us look at our own behaviour here in this european parliament. for a start, we have two european parliament buildings. we come to strasbourg and we keep this building heated and lit when we are not here – gross hypocrisy. let us look at the expenses regime – an expenses regime that encourages meps to take taxis and chauffeured cars – but if you try to take public transport, you are not allowed to claim that back: hypocrisy. if you look at parliament buildings at night, you see that they keep their lights on and are well lit. look at the common agricultural policy, which many meps in this place support, that not only damages developing countries’ economies but damages the environment. so, before we preach to the rest of the world, it is time we got our own house in order.
mr president, at the very moment when the good people of massachusetts were voting against excessive taxation and excessive government, our own commission nominees were boasting of their plans to harmonise taxation in the european union and create a separate revenue stream for brussels. how are we to explain this difference between the two unions? it seems to be that you have to look for an explanation in the foundational dna of the two polities. the us was founded out of a popular revolt against a remote and autocratic government and against high taxation, whereas of course the european union – in line 1 of article 1 of its foundational treaty – commits itself to ever-closer union. in doing so, it sets its face against the competition, the external curve, which is the main constraint on government. that is why we now see – acting according to its foundational doctrines – this intolerance for tax competition masquerading as an attack on tax havens, by which it in fact means jurisdictions which have run a more efficient system and kept their taxes lower. the reality is that tax competition – tax havens, if you insist on calling them that – is the major way to keep the government small and the citizen large and free.
mr president, at this time, one has to ask: why all this focus on tax issues, tax cooperation and tax governance? you only have to look at the evidence in a number of member states to consider the answer. we have countries that have run up big debts. in my own country, the british government has been spending money it does not have and now has to plug a massive gap in the budget. even before the financial crisis, we had countries that are known not to be collecting sufficient taxes to cover the public services that are needed by the citizens of those countries. we are also spending taxpayers’ monies on propping up companies that have failed and are being badly governed, as well as badly run banks. so, really, what should we be doing? we should be encouraging a solution in the first place to all the problems i have outlined, but we should also never forget that tax competition is a very good thing to have because it encourages governments to take less of our money and to provide services more efficiently for its citizens.
mr president, today this parliament has voted on a document relating to tax fraud and evasion; that document did not have the support of my group. whilst i fully support many measures which have been suggested to stop tax fraud and evasion, this document went far further, and there were three major concerns. firstly, taking action against those who commit fraud should not be used as a backdoor way by those who want to increase tax harmonisation across europe for those of us who honestly pay our taxes. this parliament has for a long time defended the right of member states to have their own say over corporate tax rates and we should continue to do so. secondly, it suggests an eu-level levy on taxation areas. we have resisted plans for this parliament to have europe-wide taxes. the third point is on sharing information. yes, we should share some information, but we should always think how much, for what purpose and for what benefit, and we should not consider that all circumstances are identical.
mr president, the treaty of rome contains one sentence on this subject. it says, ‘men and women shall be given equal pay for equal work’. now, that sounds pretty straightforward. we all think we understand what that means. but what has happened in the subsequent decades is that, through a process of judicial activism, the european court has progressively extended the meaning of that phrase beyond anything that a reasonable person would assume. first, it defined ‘equal pay’ as meaning equal pension rights and equal holidays and so on. then it defined ‘equal work’ as being work of equivalent value. how is an employer supposed to judge that? is it a question of how hard it looks like someone is working? do they have to factor in the availability of suitably qualified applicants? then, in the south-west trains case in britain, it was extended to look at the rights of spouses of same-sex unions. now we are talking about reproductive rights. there is an argument for all of these things. you can take the view that the state ought not to regulate contracts between employers and employees or you can take the view that we need this legislation. but, whichever side you are on, surely that is an argument that ought to be had by elected representatives who we can vote for and vote against. it is outrageous for them to be imposed on us by a court. a court with a mission is a menace; a supreme court with a mission is a tyranny.
mr president, let me tell you the story of two african countries. in 1978 kenya banned the hunting of elephants and that decision was followed by an almost total destruction of elephant herds in kenya. round about the same time – in 1979 – rhodesia, as it was still called, made elephants the property of whoever’s land they were roaming on. result – explosion of elephant numbers. we in this house do not think of the elephant in the way that the african does. we are not threatened by it; it does not trample our crops; it does not destroy our villages; and it does not damage human health. the only way to prevent local populations from doing the logical thing, which is to eliminate a dangerous menace, is by giving them an incentive in treating it as a renewable resource. this, of course, is what rhodesia – now zimbabwe – successfully did. environmental policy should recognise the basic aristotelian wisdom that that which nobody owns, nobody will care for.
in writing. − this report deals with important issues relating to fraud, including in the field of greenhouse gas emissions. the commission must report on the effectiveness of the reverse charge mechanism with a view to establishing whether it would be appropriate to extend the mechanism elsewhere.
in writing. − this regulation allows member states to use the european regional development fund in an integrated and sensible way. by making existing money available for marginalised communities, many of whom are in rural areas and shelters and could not benefit under previous rules, this new regulation will contribute significantly towards the economic recovery plan for europe.
in writing. − whilst i believe that the eu's member states should retain control over their own taxation systems, it is clear that there must be cooperation across the eu and indeed with third countries in order to counter tax evasion. i believe that the compromise agreed today will be a useful tool in combating fraud and evasion.
in writing. − the increased mobility of both persons and capital lies at the heart of the eu and has been a great success. however, it carries with it certain downsides and these include the increased possibilities for fraudsters to avoid paying taxes and duties. it is apparent that the existing systems of mutual assistance has proved insufficient and today's vote should bring about much-needed improvements in this area.
in writing. − ukip fully supports the relief efforts and is horrified at the loss of life and those affected by the disaster, but we cannot support legitimising the eu in spending hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money, along with its militaristic and diplomatic ambition to circumvent democratic and accountable nation states intervening in the crisis. of course we encourage government and individuals to give relief and money to help those affected and rebuild the country. however, this must be done transparently with the public and not by secretive, unelected bureaucrats with international ambitions of grandeur.
in writing. − labour meps would like to express our deepest sympathy for all those in haiti who have had their lives shattered by this catastrophic earthquake and we fully support international relief efforts. we have supported this resolution with the clear aim of sending the message that the european parliament and labour meps stand side-by-side with the people of haiti in the long-term work of rebuilding the infrastructure, communities and lives which have been torn apart. we were particularly pleased in this resolution to highlight the decision of britain and the other g7 countries to cancel their claims on haiti's international debt and to call on other nations to follow. we do not however agree with paragraph 24 of the resolution as we believe that any proposal for improvement of eu disaster response should made with full consultation and deliberation, and not simply in the context and immediate aftermath of one humanitarian tragedy, however appalling. in particular, the paragraph prejudices the current voluntary arrangements for eu member states, and we should not underplay national response capacities, particularly when the uk's own standing response team rolled into action within one hour of the earthquake in haiti.
in writing. − in recent weeks we have all seen horrific footage of the situation which has hit the people of haiti. as is always the case in large natural disasters, the attention span of the press and media is short and the headlines soon move on elsewhere. it would not be acceptable for political leaders to move on so quickly and it is correct that this parliament seeks to keep the disaster top of the agenda. this resolution notes the good work done thus far both by eu institutions and bodies within member states and it is to be hoped that the eu high representative takes full note of the specific issues parliament has highlighted today.
in writing. − the devastating earthquake in haiti last month caused catastrophic damage, and the global relief effort will need to be long-term and committed. i am pleased that the eu has responded swiftly with eur 196 million so far in assistance. i support the resolution calling for effective and coordinated humanitarian efforts from the eu, to ensure haiti receives long-term assistance and reconstruction.
in writing. − ukip is gravely concerned with the situation in iran and calls for governments on both sides to come to a diplomatic, but above all, peaceful solution to the ongoing political and humanitarian breakdown in the country. the eu must not intervene in this situation as it will only exacerbate the tense situation. unaccountable eu bureaucrats, instead of elected politicians leading the negotiations, will end up with a bad outcome for iran and the rest of the world. negotiations should be taken in cooperation with other national governments, not forced upon from above by the eu. there are many countries wanting to stay neutral, such as ireland, and the eu representing those countries on this issue seriously undermines their democratically-backed policy.
in writing. − the ecr supported a strong resolution on iran. we are in favour of robust international action to deal with iran's growing nuclear capability. it is most regrettable, therefore, that the opportunity was not taken by the european parliament to support international calls for additional sanctions. it should also be clarified that fortunately there are no “eu embassies” in tehran. there are national embassies.
in writing. − whilst i agree with the thrust of, and was involved in the drafting of, this resolution on the current situation in yemen, i cannot agree with the reference it makes to the coordinating role that the future eu external action service will play with regard to yemen. i asked to have references to the eas removed during the drafting stage, but other political groups refused. the eas is a direct product of the treaty of lisbon, a treaty i do not approve of and one which has no democratic legitimacy. the eas is to have a network of "eu embassies" and, under the watchful eye of the new eu high representative/vice president of the commission, is to be responsible for creating and implementing eu military and foreign policy. i have been a long-time opponent of the eu having a role in these two policy fields, which i sincerely believe must remain the sole prerogative of the sovereign member states.
in writing. − ukip is totally opposed to people-trafficking as it is a modern day version of slavery. we call for the highest penalties in the land for those criminals perpetrating such a crime and for serious measures to wipe out such activity. however, we cannot support the eu using people-trafficking as a pretext to harmonise immigration and border policies over the heads of elected governments. it must be up to electorates through the ballot box, and elected politicians, to decide national policy on these matters, not for the eu to make yet another policy grab that will take away democratic accountability. if there were not open borders within the eu, and each country had its own immigration policy, serious organised crime and people-trafficking would be much easier to stamp out.
in writing. − whilst many people within the eu live reasonably comfortable lives, the reality is that across the eu, and including within the very richest areas, numerous people are living in slavery. the very cross border nature of human trafficking means that this is an issue where the eu's institutions have a key role to play and i therefore welcome today's resolution.
in writing. − the ecr group are united in the view that the trade in human beings is intolerable and should be stopped. however, we have grave reservations about the adequacy of this resolution in tackling the root causes that lead to human trafficking and hence we have chosen to vote against. the ecr group feel that this resolution takes a ‘victim-centred approach’ which prescribes how member states should look after victims once they have been trafficked, thus assuming that the incidence of human trafficking is inevitable. the ecr group have, however, along with the epp, signed a resolution calling for enhanced cooperation between member states, police and border control agencies where personal data can be safeguarded and where the care of a victim can be decided by individual member states.
in writing. − ukip believes that environmental protection is important. whilst we dispute the scientific premise the copenhagen talks were based on, we have no objection to measures taken at nation state level to protect the environment.
in writing. − the copenhagen summit was very much a missed opportunity in efforts to tackle climate change. my own country, scotland, has adopted the most ambitious climate change legislation in the world whilst the scottish government's recent collaboration with the government of the maldives serves as a model for international agreement. today's resolution calls for "bilateral meetings between the european parliament and the national parliaments" in order to facilitate understanding; i expect the national parliament of scotland to be included in any such meetings given its world-leading stance.
in writing. − clearly, while the summit in copenhagen was seen as disappointing in its final outcomes, there is much to commend further efforts. there is simply no alternative to collective action on this issue. as the european union will continue to play a pivotal role along the road towards the next conference in mexico, every effort has to be ensured to gain political acceptance at a global level. it is on the issues outlined by many scientists and other observers that citizens are making up their minds to support climate change proposals. those who merely rely on creating an atmosphere of fear and hostility do little to elaborate the arguments in their favour. the line adopted by eu governments, led by minister ed miliband, have won support and offer real hope of a deal. this parliament must continue to support this approach.
in writing. − the current economic crisis has highlighted a number of vital areas in which reform must be made within europe and across the wider world. good governance in tax matters is very much an important element in a healthy economy and the eu has a key role to play in promoting international good governance in these matters.
in writing. − tax fraud and tax evasion result in an estimated 200bn euros being lost each year – money stolen from taxpayers in the rich world and the neediest in the developing world. this scourge must be tackled, and my delegation supports this report which sends a strong message that the european parliament will not tolerate fraud, evasion or tax havens operating with impunity. in particular, i welcome the clear statement that we must aim for automatic exchange of information to become the general rule. studies show this is the most effective way to tackle tax evasion and protect revenues. those who oppose these calls are acting in the interests of a tiny elite of wealthy individuals and corporations who make use of tax havens, and against the many who pay tax and rely on the services it pays for. the report refers to the forthcoming impact assessment on the proposed common consolidated corporate tax base. while we have no objections to further analysis, my delegation would require strong supporting evidence before being able to consider backing such a proposal. the report also asks for analysis of possible options for sanctions against tax havens, which we support without prejudice to a final position.
in writing. − whilst ukip believes in the equality of men and women, we reject any attempt by the eu to legislate in this area. we believe that measures at national level are more appropriate in this domain.
in writing. − whilst gender equality is a fundamental right within the eu recognised in the treaty on european union, there remain unacceptable levels of inequality in a wide number of areas. it is clear that huge problems remain and so it is imperative that the eu institutions work to positively identify and seek solutions to these issues wherever they exist in the union.
in writing. − the ecr group are the strongest supporters of equality between men and women and especially the principle of equal pay and equal opportunity in the workplace. the ecr have decided to vote in favour of the paragraphs which support equality in this way. the ecr group have nevertheless voted against this resolution for two specific reasons. firstly, we oppose any legislation that assumes that women’s health, education and reproductive rights are the responsibility not of member states but of the eu. secondly, whilst the ecr group fully supports the need for maternity and paternity provisions, we have chosen to abstain from such references in this report because we oppose any family policy being dictated at eu level; this is a matter for national governments to decide upon.
in writing. − i abstained in the votes on the progress reports for croatia and macedonia. i did not do so because i judged either country might be unfit to be a member of the european union. it would be more accurate to say that i judged the eu to be an unfit organisation for either of them to join. membership of the european union involves serious surrender of sovereignty and an unwelcome intrusion of its laws into everyday life. it is increasingly destructive of freedom of speech, writing and even thought. both countries gained their independence from the yugoslavian federation and are now preparing to surrender their sovereignty to the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, like my colleagues here, i have been hugely frustrated and angered by the council’s treatment of and substandard consultation with this house on the agreement. parliamentary consultation and consent should not be a retrospective tool. the reciprocity of data protection should be beyond reproach, and the manner in which the agreement has been negotiated and concluded must never be repeated. however, i have been reassured at least by the united states authorities and by the multi-layered data protection systems and judicial safeguards that are in place through this interim agreement. so our poor treatment by the council should not compromise the eu’s agreement with the united states, or any future agreements on the security of europe. we are now receiving loads of assurances and promises from the council and from the commission. i cannot yet judge whether these answer all the reasonable requirements we have laid down, so in my opinion we now need some time before proceeding further with our consideration of this vital measure.
mr president, we too in the socialists and democrats want to fight for the european citizens and we want to fight against terrorism so that is why we will be recommending, as my leader said, a ‘no’ vote tomorrow to ensure that we vote in this parliament on the first consent procedure under lisbon against a bad agreement for this whole parliament. this is not a sectarian issue for us but a factual issue. this is an issue about whether a badly drafted agreement serves the interests of security and anti-terrorism. as one of my advisers once said – and he is a lawyer, i used to be a lawyer and mr kirkhope was also a lawyer – quoting benjamin franklin: he who would put security so far before liberty deserves neither. so we all agree that, for the eu citizens, a good agreement is what we want. now in coreper it is absolutely true that the council came up with all the issues that we as a group regarded as the important issues. mrs clinton too in her letter acknowledged that parliament had a point, but neither of these documents went further and gave us a blueprint for solving this problem, and that is why a ‘no’ will, in our view, push towards a better agreement for the whole parliament. so we, in our group, are appealing across the house and not just within our group, to support the rapporteur in what she is trying to do, a better agreement to fight terrorism. no one has the moral high ground here; we want an effective fight against terrorism, that means a better agreement and that is what we will be recommending to the socialist and democrats this evening in our group.
mr president, the security of our citizens is of paramount interest to us all, and it is all too easy for us to be painted as soft on fighting terrorism when we stand and ask for the civil liberties of our citizens to be protected. i have seen that happen time and time again by many national parliamentarians when it comes to actions that this house takes. swift has, of course, many examples of success, and we support all of those examples, but it is equally important also to concentrate our minds on those instances where swift has failed or let us down. there have been many failed or bad investigations in the european union. in my constituency alone, 12 innocent people were detained and were not able to be charged. at the time they were detained we were informed that financial transactions were part of the substantial evidence against them. what can we learn from those bad instances? council, let us step back. we have time. our backs are not against the wall. there is a way forward. let us defer. council, go back; do this properly – not for the sake of this house, but for the sake of our citizens.
mr president, you said that there were three commissioners who are responsible here. we are very happy about this. may i quote the only one who is not here. commissioner reding said last week ‘what we do know is that body scanners may have a considerable privacy-invasive potential and so we need full consideration of their impact’. that is exactly the kind of statement we should be making at this early stage. we in the socialists and democrats believe that technology can fight terrorism, and mrs malmström rightly couched it in a wider potential legal framework which she spoke about. this is a serious fight. i have been stopped many times at airports. if technology can speed me through so that i am not mistaken for someone else, then that is a great thing, but for the many people i represent in my constituency who are badly treated at security, or singled out, what they want is safety. we will have that from the transport committee in this good, joint approach, but they want their civil liberties protected from the effects of terrorism so that there is no weak link at any airport. those member states that have started this should know that there should be a pan-european approach, an effective and safe approach.
mr president, i want to talk about respect for the rule of law by intelligence services. a ruling today by the uk court of appeal has blasted open the british government’s attempt at secrecy. it has confirmed, as parliament said three years ago, the shocking truth that uk secret services did collude in the torture of british resident and rendition victim binyan mohamed. what does the council think of that total breach of article 6 of the eu treaty and the torture convention? in 2006, i led the mep delegation from our temporary committee on extraordinary rendition and torture to london. the then uk defence secretary, geoffrey hoon, wasted half the meeting lambasting me just for saying that we were enquiring into uk complicity. he owes me, and more importantly the british and european public, an apology. four things now need to happen in the uk: a full independent inquiry into uk complicity in war-on-terror abuses during the years the uk labour government acted as a bush poodle; a rapid police investigation and, if necessary, prosecutions for breach of the torture convention; disclosure of what instructions were given to uk intelligence officers and if they were told to keep silent in the face of torture; and full parliamentary accountability – which we do not have in the uk for the intelligence services.
mr president, back to body scanners. i remain of the view that any measure which increases security for the travelling public must be welcomed. however, it must also be proportionate and give innocent travellers – the vast majority – the respect they deserve. following the christmas day attempt to blow up the aircraft in the usa, we have seen what amounts to a knee-jerk reaction to impose any possible means to enhance security. in some member states, particularly my own, the use of such machines is now mandatory with no alternative such as a ‘pat-down’ available – the so-called ‘no scan, no fly’ tactic. i fundamentally object to that policy. on the privacy front, i have to say that the decision by the uk government to overturn child-protection laws in order to introduce body scanners is nothing short of a scandal. we have to look at the fact that on christmas day – the issue that reopened this debate – it was not down to poor security at airports. it was, to quote the us president, ‘a failure in the system to properly exchange intelligence’. some experts have already said that the explosives used would not have been detected by such scanners. finally, i regrettably have to say that i now think we need to have a proper system of passenger profiling.
mr president, as a representative of northern ireland, i know only too well the terrible impact of terrorism on innocent civilians: murder and mayhem inflicted while people were doing their saturday shopping in the shankhill road in belfast; young and old blown up at an act of remembrance to the fallen of the world wars in enniskillen – acts carried out in the name of irish republicanism. we talk here about the cooperation of the security forces. from the experience of northern ireland we can see that their contributions prevented many people from losing their lives; of that i have no doubt. we need to support our security forces with the equipment they need to prevent terrorism. those today who have pitted safety and security against freedom of choice and data protection need to consider where they stand. believe me, terrorism destroys lives and shatters communities. i have even heard in this chamber today that terrorism is hysteria. what utter nonsense! believe me, when a gunman is trying to take a life it is a cold and lethal reality – something that my constituents know a lot about.
mr president, terrorism is defined as the use of violence and intimidation to achieve political ends. those of us who value peace, freedom and democracy ought to be concerned about terrorism because it works. sinn féin/ira now hold posts in the government of northern ireland. they bombed, shot and murdered their way to success at the ballot box. what better examples of successful terrorism are there than those of communism in russia, eastern europe and asia? china is still terrorised by the chinese communist party after 61 years of power. no greater example of successful terrorism exists than that. the european commission which this parliament voted in yesterday contains communists, former apparatchiks of brutal communist regimes in eastern europe and their fellow travellers. and of course the president of the european commission, mr barroso, is a former maoist. no doubt future terrorists will find this all extremely encouraging.
mr president, the recent announcement of compulsory back-scatter x-ray technology whole-body scanners at british airports by prime minister gordon brown is an outrage, in my view. this is the first time ever that ionising radiation is being forced on people, including children and pregnant women, and indeed being used widely on healthy humans for non-medical reasons. soft low-energy x-rays actually are more absorbed than the higher-energy cosmic rays you receive whilst flying and are thus more dangerous and not less dangerous to the skin and soft tissues. furthermore, diagnostic medical x-rays allow the user, the patient, the possibility of a lead shielding on their gonads to reduce the total population dose causing dna damage and future genetic mutations – not possible with these devices either. as a doctor and frequent air traveller, i totally reject this draconian measure for health reasons, not to mention privacy and ineffectiveness reasons, and i hope that the eu refuses such mandatory measures europe-wide. instead i argue we should bring on israeli-style profiling of passengers.
mr president, i asked a direct question to the council and i would like an answer. i asked what the council thought of the gross breach of article 6 – the fundamental rights clause – of the eu treaty in light of the uk court of appeals’ ruling confirming that the uk was guilty... (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president, on sunday i had the privilege to be present in kiev as an observer for the ecr group. everything i saw was peaceful, transparent and – in many ways, curiously – more robust than in my own country, the uk, with transparent ballot boxes and photo id required in order to allow you to vote. however, i was of course disappointed by the result, because president yanukovych is no western-style democrat. he will now formally drop all nato aspirations and pay only lip-service to eu membership for his country, which of course is now also formally opposed by russia, his close friend and neighbour. he will content himself, instead, with an fta and a visa liberalisation regime. mrs tymoshenko is clutching at straws, in my view, by challenging the result of her narrow defeat in the courts and i doubt very much this will succeed. the one real concern i have now is what i heard being discussed on the night: renewed splittist tendencies to break off the ukrainian west – opposed to yanukovych and supporters of tymoshenko – to either join poland or form a new western state. it probably will not happen but, if it does, it must be peaceful and by consensus. what we must do here in the european union is to support the legacy of the orange revolution and our common shared democratic values with ukraine.
again, i apologise to all those to whom i could not give the opportunity to speak. i am sure it is a subject to which we will return again.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the second part-session in february. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0006/2010). the following questions are addressed to the council. question 1 by zigmantas balcytis (h-0008/10) subject: creating an internal energy market creating a single internal energy market is referred to as a political priority in the agreement and long-term strategy of the troika of spain, belgium and hungary. in order to attain this objective, the most isolated regions of the community, such as the baltic sea region, need to be better integrated into the european energy market. the baltic sea strategy contains many electricity and gas interconnection projects, which, if implemented, will allow baltic countries to break free from their energy dependency on a single supplier. in view of their cross-border nature, implementing these projects successfully will depend not only on providing funding but also on the political will and intentions of the member states involved. in creating an internal energy market, the community has undertaken to speak with one voice. will spain, which holds the presidency of the council, take a lead role in encouraging member states to speak with one voice in the implementation of energy projects in the baltic sea region, such as amberlitpol, swedlink and others, that would bring about an increase in energy security not only at a regional level but throughout the community?
before we go on, can i just make it clear to everybody in the chamber that the minister is prepared to stay until 19.20, so there will be more questions than would be taken up to 19.00.
question 2 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0009/10) subject: development approaches, objectives and actions under the eu's 2020 sustainable development strategy the economic crisis, climate change and demographic changes are having a drastic impact on the lives of european citizens. health, education, agriculture, the development of transport and energy infrastructure and investment in research and innovation and in the modernising of public services must be priorities both for the member states and for the eu. there is a joint obligation to guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms of european citizens, including the free movement of workers. the european social model ensures the necessary support for employees who have lost their jobs, for the elderly and for the young, as well as for migrant workers. the eu’s 2020 sustainable development strategy is to be presented at the informal european council meeting in february 2010. could the spanish council presidency indicate what the main development approaches, objectives and actions will be under that strategy, and what resources it estimates will be needed for its successful implementation?
question 3 by bernd posselt (h-0011/10) subject: freedom of religion in china what steps does the council plan to take to improve the situation of religious communities, and in particular of christian churches, and the implementation of the right to freedom of religion in china?
question 5 by ilda figueiredo (h-0015/10) subject: cia - secret prisons and flights recent press reports have revealed the existence of a secret prison in lithuania, located in a former riding school and used by the cia since 2004, where a number of 'terrorism suspects' have been tortured. an italian court has found more than 20 us agents and two italian officials guilty of the kidnapping in milan of abu omar, who was subsequently tortured in egypt. a number of other trials are under way, notably in poland and the uk. there is evidence that other governments, and in particular portugal, were (in the context of a secret nato agreement) aware of the use of their airspace and airports for maintaining the detention, kidnapping and torture network masterminded by the us. what is the council's position on this new information and these trials, and what explanations can it furnish? what measures will it propose to ensure that these circumstances are not repeated in the future?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 19.25 and resumed at 21.00.)
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the great investor, warren buffet, once said ‘when the tide goes down, you kind of get to see who is not wearing a bathing costume’. last year the uk economy contracted 4.8%. so did italy’s. the german economy contracted 5% and eu trade much more so. i am going to focus on the third question, which is: what strategy does the commission intend to pursue to enable eu industry to become more competitive? well, before there was the lisbon treaty, there was the lisbon strategy, and in the lisbon strategy the eu intended, and i quote, ‘to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world’. now, one prerequisite for a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy is to have a flexible work force. so what has the eu done to bring this about? well they have brought in the agency workers’ directive in 2008 and this has been like pouring glue into the most flexible part of the labour market. the agency workers’ directive is yet another ill-thought-out and inappropriate eu directive which has yet again disproportionately and adversely affected the uk, which has a third of all eu agency workers. and, incidentally, it is by having a flexible workforce that you raise people out of poverty. the eu’s series of ill-considered directives stand in the way of a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy emerging in the member states. the eu economic crisis reveals that the eu has, as it were, no bathing costume.
madam president, as other speakers have said, the full impact of the financial crisis is now becoming clear. if you believe the commission, trade dropped by 10% in 2009. if you believe the imf, it dropped by 12.3% in 2009. the ilo itself reckons that 212 million people worldwide were unemployed in 2009, a 34 million increase from 2007. sub-saharan africa, which had a fiscal surplus of 0.3% of gdp in 2008, had a deficit of 6.4% in 2009. in other words a surplus of three billion turned into a deficit of 64 billion, taking 67 billion out of sub-saharan africa’s spending power. all parts of the world have suffered because of this crisis, but the third world, the developing world, has suffered the most. and that is why today oxfam have today launched a call for what they have called a ‘robin hood tax’. this is a variation on the tobin tax, which was to tax speculative trade on financial products, stocks, bonds, commodities and currency transactions. the robin hood tax represents a tiny 0.05% of transactions, but would raise billions for development projects in the third world. the millennium development goals need between 34 billion and 45 billion to be met and the banks received a trillion-dollar bail-out. banks should do more than simply pay back that cash: they should repair the damage they have done to wider society. so this robin hood tax would be a good way to tackle poverty and to ensure that the banks make a socially useful contribution. will the commissioner look seriously at oxfam’s proposal, which has had an indication of support from the british prime minister, and put his weight behind it as a european commissioner for trade?
author. − madam president, during times of economic downturn, it is only through the opening-up of markets and the removal of barriers that we can rebuild our industry, create jobs and boost development. thank you, commissioner, for your points of view on the previous debate. eu exporters of consumer, electronics, pharmaceuticals, chemicals and medical devices are just some of the sectors which will benefit immensely from the removal of non-tariff barriers. simplification of certification procedures, transparency and price predictability are all things that will benefit the consumer. the korean consumer market, in turn, wants access to speciality european agricultural products, such as wines, spirits, meats, cheeses, all protected by geographical indicators. however, it would be wrong to accept this free trade agreement – and we have heard many people speak on it – at face value, and there are areas which need further clarification by the commission. the inclusion of duty drawback clauses has been a concern for many of us, as i mentioned. any free trade agreement must be based on the principle of reciprocity or mutual benefit, but the potential burden on european car manufacturers remains unclear and of great concern to us. the commission has assured us that korea is actively liberalising its import regime. the level of duties that korea can refund under the duty drawback are gradually being reduced. the negotiators are convinced that the economic relevance of the duty drawback will therefore diminish over time. what evidence does the commission have to support this argument? if the commission finds itself resorting to repeated or continued use of this safeguard mechanism, will it consider reviewing negotiations to extend the transfer period? commissioner, i look forward to working closely with you in the new agreement that is coming up.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i believe that this korean free trade agreement is important for three reasons. firstly, as you have indicated, it is a win-win deal for korea and for the european union economies. it is good for consumers, it is good for jobs and as you rightly say, it has a potential to add 19 billion to our trade flows with korea. secondly though, given the debate we have just had, in the context of the current global financial crisis, it sets a very positive example. if two large economies like the european union and korea can agree a free trade agreement, it sets an impetus for other partners. japan, for example, is showing much more interest in economic relations with the european union than it was just a few years ago and partly that is due to the korean deal. suddenly, on the other side, the koreans are finding the us is now coming back, knocking on their door, wanting to get the korus agreement moving again. the third reason – more parochially, but i hope colleagues in the house will bear this in mind – is that it is important for parliament because many of the demands we made in my report have been met by the commission, and time does not permit me to go through the all but i want to just give you three or four examples. firstly, we said in my report that we needed much better access to the korean agricultural market. well, korean agricultural tariffs are going to come down by 75% over the first seven years of this agreement; we wanted our geographical indicators protected, our whisky, our champagnes, our wines, our hams and so on are going to be protected in korea as a result of this agreement. and they are not, as one of my colleagues indicated, insignificant. scottish whisky sells gbp 137 million worth a year into the korean market already so with this deal, we could see a significant increase. we called for non-tariff barriers to be tackled and this will be of particular benefit to the automobile industry. we wanted improved trade in environmental goods. well, under this deal, environmental trade in goods and services will after three years have virtually duty-free access to the korean market and their environmental goods and services duty-free access to our market. we asked as a parliament for improved social and environmental standards. well, korea since the negotiations have been initialled has signed four ilo conventions and their trade and sustainable development forum is going to be established as a result of this agreement allowing the civil partners in korea to ensure that greater market opening is accompanied by labour and environmental standards improvements. all of these things, parliament asked for. it would be ludicrous and perverse for us to turn our back on them, having achieved them. is this a perfect deal? well, of course it is not. are there things in it that i would not want in it, of course there are, but negotiations mean that you have to come and go, but on balance, is it a good deal for europe? yes. is it a good deal for korea? yes. is it a good deal, potentially, for the world economy? yes. so we should not shilly-shally on this: we should get on and sign it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all, can i take the opportunity of welcoming you, commissioner, to your new post, and may you have a very successful term. can i take the opportunity to say that it is good that we are having this debate here tonight and getting some things out in the open. the truth is that the negotiations have been long and protracted, and i certainly welcome the commissioner’s statement that he is hoping to bring this very shortly to an end. there will be enormous benefit to both europe and korea on the signing of this deal. i know there are concerns and i have listened to those concerns. we have heard them here tonight about the car industry. but, you know, i think if we are going to depend on the car industry – and we are going to totally defend it – then i think we are picking the wrong particular area in which to do this, and certainly general motors would not be the most important in my area, as far as i would be concerned. i share these concerns and i share some of the real concerns held by many people, and i understand them. but i believe the opportunity outweighs that concern, and i think that, if we are always to be reticent, then i do not believe we will achieve anything. so we must look to the opportunities and take them, and not the negatives. we cannot forget that this deal also has a political content, because to the north of south korea there is a very aggressive enemy, and i think we send out a message as well as to whom we support. so we must do all we can to break down the barriers that are in that particular region. the agreement will show our support for progress. i have had the opportunity to go there and i know the people in that area are very much inclined to go forward and to be progressive. there is clear and visible support for each other between the north and the south when you visit an area like kaesong this i believe is a tremendous opportunity for us to move forward. can i just simply ask the commission: firstly, how would it comment on the provision of the dispute settlement mechanism and how will this operate in practice? specifically, how quickly will we be able to utilise this mechanism in the case of serious market disruption?
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution by elizabeth lynne and pervenche berès, on behalf of the empl committe, on the proposal for a council directive implementing the framework agreement on prevention from sharp injuries in the hospital and healthcare sector concluded by hospeem and epsu (b7-0063/2010).
author. − mr president, there are over one million preventable needle-stick injuries on healthcare workers each year across the whole of the eu. many of those who are injured, and their families, face an agonising wait to find out whether they have contracted a blood-borne infection such as hiv or hepatitis c. the risks of infection following an accident are not insignificant. experts tell us the chances of infection are one in three for hepatitis b, 1 in 30 for hepatitis c and 1 in 300 for hiv. take the case of juliet young. juliet was a nurse who died in 2008, seven years after contracting hiv while taking blood from an infected patient in a london hospital. juliet accidentally pricked her thumb on the needle after it slipped when she was taking a sample. or the case of a dental nurse working in a prison who was pricked by a needle that was used on an inmate who had hepatitis a, b, and c and was hiv positive. imagine the agonising wait that she had; she has now discovered that she has contracted hepatitis c. this nurse, and many others like her, are continuing to campaign on this issue. i first became involved in 2004 when i visited a hospital in my constituency at the instigation of health first europe, and then on world aids day on 1 december that year i hosted an exhibition with stephen hughes in this parliament. healthcare workers from across the european union visited us, visited the parliament, desperate for our help. those of you who had the opportunity to meet with those nurses and other healthcare workers could not have failed to have been moved by their plight, and in 2006 we passed a parliament resolution on protecting european healthcare workers from blood-borne infections due to needle-stick injuries. this resolution called on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to amend directive 2000/54/ec on biological agents within three months. this proposal never came, but stephen hughes and i did not give up the fight. i personally have amended many reports and resolutions calling for action, spoken in plenary on this issue a dozen times and tabled countless parliamentary questions. following meetings with commissioner špidla, we were told in 2008 that a proposal was being prepared by the commission and we were on the brink of achieving this. however, at the last minute, this was blocked as the social partners promised they would try, at long last, to reach an agreement, much to our frustration. a comprehensive agreement on the necessary requirements was eventually reached by the social partners in the summer of 2009. my resolution supports the agreement wholeheartedly. the council must adopt the proposed directive urgently so that the commission can ensure that it is implemented effectively and without delay. healthcare workers across europe are depending on us. our healthcare workers cannot wait and should not continue to be placed in danger. it is really time now to act decisively.
author. − mr president, this is an important piece of health and safety legislation. liz has outlined some of the background to it. it has been a long time in the making – six years from the first meetings we had, as she has mentioned. it is good to see commissioner andor here this morning, but it is a pity, in a way, that commissioner špidla is not here. we have often criticised him here in this chamber, but we could have congratulated him this morning for eventually taking the initiative to bring forward this proposal on needle-stick injuries, sharps injuries. we took a while to persuade him to act. his services, in fact, were the people who kept advising that he should not act, that the directive agreed in 2000 on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to biological agents, combined with the risk assessment elements of the 1989 framework directive, were enough to prevent these sorts of injuries, but eventually we persuaded those services that, with one million injuries per year, clearly something was wrong. we needed specific legislation to address this problem, as they have in the united states and in parts of spain, and it works there very effectively. eventually the commissioner agreed to act and in 2008, as liz has said, did draft an amendment to the 2000 directive, but then hospeem and epsu, the public service unions, signalled their desire to formulate an agreement. they formulated that agreement. i am glad that they have. it is a good agreement, but it is a little ambiguous in certain parts. this is why i have tabled an amendment which has been agreed in the employment committee, to seek the publication by the commission of guidance to accompany the directive to ensure the smooth and uniform transposition of this directive into law in all member states. we fully support the commission’s proposal for a directive, and we understand that the agreement from the social partners cannot be touched. we cannot amend it. council cannot amend it. it is their agreement. however, the most important part of the agreement, clause 6, which covers elimination, prevention and protection, unfortunately includes some ambiguity regarding risk assessment and precisely which preventative elements need to be implemented by employers and when. if this ambiguity is not clarified, then we risk seeing dramatic variability in the application of the directive. it is for this reason that we are requesting that the commission produce implementation guidelines to aid employers’ understanding of the risks and necessary preventative measures to ensure a consistent application of the directive. needle-stick injuries are the most common and most dangerous form of medical sharp injuries. whenever a hollow-bore needle is used on a patient there is a risk of a needle-stick injury that could lead to a serious infection of a healthcare worker because the hollow-bore acts as a reservoir for the patient’s blood or other body fluids. there is a huge body of independent evidence that has proven that the introduction of improved training, safer working practices and the use of medical devices incorporating safety-engineered protection mechanisms will prevent the majority of needle-stick injuries. all of these things are necessary, not just one or two – all of those things are necessary. studies have also demonstrated that failure to implement any one of these three elements results in a significantly reduced impact. similarly, attempts to implement safety-engineered medical devices only in certain areas or on certain patients would be neither practical nor effective. in those countries where there is existing effective legislation such as america, canada and parts of spain, it is clearly mandated that all three of these elements must be implemented to prevent needle-stick injuries. it is no coincidence that all are the same in this respect. so that is the ambiguity in clause 6 that we are seeking to overcome through the publication of guidance. liz has mentioned the trauma that people affected by needle-stick injuries face. i have met people during the six years that we have worked on this subject who have suffered needle-stick injuries, and i would really emphasise that trauma. i met a doctor who gave up medical practice because of a needle-stick injury. i met a person who has hiv as a result of a needle-stick injury. i have met people who turned out not to be infected, but only after months of uncertainty as to whether they were infected or not. i have also met garbage collectors and prison officers who have suffered needle-stick injuries. they are not covered by this agreement. that is another area that we need to think about for the future. nevertheless it is a good agreement, and i think if we have good guidance to accompany it to ensure uniform application across the european union, we will all have done a good job and hopefully we will radically reduce that figure of one million needle-stick injuries per year.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i was not going to take my speaking time on behalf of the group but i thought i could actually split it and come in afterwards but apparently, on a resolution, that is not the case; so i was informed this morning that i was coming in now. it does give me the opportunity to thank all the shadow rapporteurs whom i did not thank before; also to again thank stephen hughes, because it was stephen and i in 2004 that actually went round the hospitals with john bowis, who was a conservative mep. the three of us from the political parties went out to the hospitals to find out for ourselves, and i think that was what was so important. in this place we have to be driven by what is actually needed by the people on the ground and by listening to nurses and doctors and healthcare workers, it was important to take their views into account. stephen mentioned implementing guidelines, and i would like to find out really whether you do know whether the commission is thinking of bringing forward any implementing guidelines for this; i think it is very important that we have these. also, i was wondering whether you knew of the timetable that the council was thinking of because it is absolutely important that we get the timetable through very quickly because after all those healthcare workers have waited so many years. we do not want any more needle-stick injuries unnecessarily during that waiting time. we have had too many over the last few years. also the point which has already been made that although this is for the health sector only at the present moment i would like to see it extended to other sectors like the prisons in particular. i think it is very important that prison officers are protected as well. there are so many things that are important for those particular workers but one of the key things for this is recapable needles. i think along with all the other issues in the resolution it is very important that those healthcare workers are not subjected to unnecessary needle-stick injuries.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to thank stephen hughes and liz lynne for their work on this and indeed to welcome this action, although we would like to have seen it earlier. as has been pointed out, the usa has had legislation in place since 2001. we can now see such legislation in certain parts of the european union, and at last we are catching up, but, of course, not before many people will already have been affected by this problem. in terms of the risk, the world health organisation estimates that, while 90% of exposures to this risk are in the developing world, 90% of reports about occupational infection occur in the united states and the european union. we know that there is a major issue of under-reporting sharps injuries: estimates range between 40% and 75% and that is huge. therefore i think we should welcome the fact that, in the social partners’ agreement, clause 11 talks about the duty to report under a no-blame culture. but i think we also need to ask why people are not reporting. presumably part of it is that they do not understand the risks or that they fear the consequences – not least, perhaps, to their future employment – of reporting such an injury. indeed in some places we have reports of ineffectual follow-up, in other words, even where people do report, nothing very much happens. certainly they are not getting even the medical support that they need, let alone the emotional support – or indeed, in some cases, alternative employment, if it is considered that, when they have contracted something like hiv, there may be a risk to patients. we have research which shows that health workers working outside hospitals are more likely to be dissatisfied with the response of employers. people have spoken about the scope of this action. of course it covers the healthcare sector, and we are very pleased that the agreement covers trainees and subcontractors. i am not entirely sure whether that includes cleaning staff, and i would welcome some clarification on that. but it does not yet cover workers in other professions at risk, so we hope member states could look at that. the training obligations are extremely important, and i hope member states will take this seriously: both the giving and receiving of training should be mandatory, as should induction for all new and temporary staff – because i think there is a feeling that if you train people once you never have to look at that issue again. at the moment there is a lack of training even where employers have training policies in place. an issue was raised about the cost. there are estimates that training and preventative measures, including safer devices, account for about a third of the cost of dealing with sharps injuries. that is an important saving in cash-strapped times, as well as being an important issue both for the people concerned and employers, who may indeed find themselves at risk of legal action if they are not taking action to prevent such injuries.
thank you, commissioner. i am sure we are all grateful to the initiators of this debate. let us hope that things improve. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12.00 today.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on online gambling in relation to recent ecj rulings, by malcolm harbour, andreas schwab, evelyne gebhardt, cristian silviu buşoi, heide rühle, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-0141/2009 – b7-0235/2009).
author. − mr president, first of all it is a privilege on behalf of the committee on internal market and consumer protection to welcome our new commissioner michel barnier for the first time to what i am sure will be many interchanges across the floor of this house, and particularly because he has moved seamlessly from his seat over there to his seat at the front in two days. commissioner, we are very pleased to have you here. secondly, on behalf of the committee, to have the chance essentially to put on record with this question our concern about the developments of online gambling, and indeed the gambling sector overall and some of the many uncertainties that are arising about the whole legislative regime for gambling within the internal market. i know you will have a considerable in-tray already, commissioner, but we hope very much that this will be an item that will be close to the top of your in-tray because it is an area which my committee has been very concerned about over the last five years. we have done a number of own-initiative studies and questions about it and indeed the author of our last major report, mrs schaldemose, will be speaking later and so we have a sustained interest in this topic. as you all know, the member states have also been meeting together regularly at council level on various reflection groups about how to tackle the issue about the growth of online gambling in relation to our own countries’ gambling activities. i think i should make it clear first of all that this question does not in any way presuppose a new liberalisation of gambling markets or indeed not necessarily any new initiative in that direction. but the fact remains as you all know that the intense and growing popularity of online gambling is certainly also putting pressure on many national monopolies and existing schemes that may be state owned or state controlled, which raise very large amounts of revenue but are of concern to member states. what we are saying to you is that, in conjunction with this work that has been going on, there have been a number of references to the european court of justice; you will be aware of the details, and colleagues may talk about that later. i am not going to go through those, but from our perspective we see that the inconsistencies of some of the approaches to the court of justice are not in fact helping but if anything making the situation more complex and opaque than it was before. we also know that your services have issued a number of infringement cases in gambling issues, not all of them online, but many of them also relate to the whole question of freedom of operators to go and establish themselves in other countries. all of these things now mean that it is absolutely the right time for the commission to be collating this information, looking at the process of infringement proceedings, examining the issues raised by the court of justice judgments and coming out, first of all, with a clear strategy or clarification about where we are going to move forward and starting to deal with some of those inconsistencies. from a consumer protection point of view, regulators also need to know where they stand about dealing with online gambling. clearly, it can be regulated and it must be regulated – and, indeed, there are many good instances where online gambling providers are clearly committed to providing the tools and the controls to deal with problems of addictive gambling and so on – and, of course, there are issues about fraud and about problems there which we have also debated extensively in our committee. this is a consumer protection issue as well as being an internal market consistency issue. finally, i think we must also respect our citizens and the fact that many of them do want to access online gambling. i do not think there is any intention whatsoever to try and ban that – indeed it would be practically impossible – but there are major inconsistencies there. in some countries, for example, it is apparently illegal to take part in an online gambling contest with a company outside your own country. that cannot be right. another inconsistency which has been pointed out by one of my constituents is that if a british citizen accesses the british national lottery online from spain and wins a prize, it will be illegal for the lottery to pay them in spain. there are these inconsistencies that we have to tackle for the good of our citizens and the good of consumers. commissioner, that is the context of this question. you will hear lots of good contributions and interesting views from my colleagues, but i hope that you will make this one of your top priorities in your new role.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i speak as a former minister in the uk responsible for gambling controls, so, when we talk about a europe of free trade and a europe that opposes protectionism, a europe which opens markets and tears down trade barriers, of course i am very much in favour of that. some of our colleagues, who stand up here and call for a more open europe, are also the same people who are supporting the maintenance of monopoly structures for the gambling industry. i might say that monopolies – or they might say i should say – that monopolies are better at controlling and treating the problem of gambling which has been discussed this morning. that is very interesting, because a lot of the data certainly does not support that argument. the arguments for protectionism and monopolies in the gambling sector are self-serving; more control and then more money for national governments. this is not the open europe or the transparent europe that i want. it is the europe which says, ‘do as i say, not as i do’. there is no reason why private gambling providers operating under high levels of regulated protection in one eu member state should not be allowed to operate in others. there is no reason why a tightly regulated but open market will not provide an equivalent, if not a higher, level of protection to citizens as any tightly controlled state monopoly. as we wait for that, the european court of justice’s verdicts continue to roll out. they must be getting a bit sick of the issue in luxembourg – or, speaking as a lawyer, perhaps they are not quite so sick of it – but above the deafening silence that has come from the commission so far, it does seem to me that it is now time for action. the degree of legal uncertainty must be ended. can i just say that i think it is important for parliament to signal its renewed willingness to tackle the issue and to send a strong signal to the council and commission that we should not hide away from this. with a new commission we do hope for new impetus. i have great faith in you, commissioner barnier. i hope that you will note the advice that you receive and begin to work out a strategy to ensure that online gambling can become a legitimate part of the internal market with, of course, appropriate regulations in place.
mr president, i would like to thank the previous speakers for their contributions and my colleague, christel schaldemose, for her work on this subject. as previous speakers have said, gambling is not like any normal service. the negative consequences of gambling cannot be more highly emphasised, as many colleagues have said this morning. there are two internationally recognised scales which can measure problem gambling. one is called the diagnostic statistical severity index and the other, the canadian problem gambling severity index. this was used in the uk and it is estimated that, in the uk alone – and a dutch colleague said one per cent of their population is affected – it is something along the lines of 236 000 to 284 000 adults who have a gambling problem. what would this number be across the european union? when you think about it, if this green paper is coming forward, i would like to see the commission getting some proper statistics – a study in fact on the effects of gambling and online gambling on eu citizens. i think this would be a very useful piece of information to inform our debate and to have at our fingertips. regarding the point about the ecj rulings, when you look at the words, ‘in order to prevent operations of games of chance via the internet for fraudulent or criminal purposes’ and the prevalence of cartels in the single market, highlighted by the competition report, we need to ensure that online gambling companies do not use registering in a different country from the one in which they operate as a front for hiding illegal practices. i look forward to hearing further from commissioner barnier. i wish you the best of luck, commissioner, in your new role.
mr president, just to announce that written declaration 0054/2009 on the transportation of horses for slaughter in the european union has achieved the required amount of signatures. can i thank everyone else for signing it. it is brilliant news for us. ***
), chairman of the delegation for relation with south africa. – mr president, i will be very brief indeed because the house does not want to be detained. as you rightly said, 20 years ago nelson mandela was released from prison after serving 27 years of political imprisonment. the world watched as he took the final stretch on his road to freedom. it was a day that changed south africa and, arguably, changed the world. he founded a modern new south africa. that he did it with no anger, resentment or bitterness displays that he is a statesman head and shoulders above so many others. he is, i believe, a living example, in that we are either imprisoned by our history or liberated by it. with his liberation, he liberated a country, sent apartheid to the dustbin of history and led south africa to a multiracial democracy. we salute him. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to support the epp’s proposal for postponement on the vote. i believe that this is a sensible and rational course of action; the house may have new powers but we must exercise them in a measured and responsible way. the council has tried to appease parliament, perhaps not sufficiently yet, but they have also apologised for their mistakes during this process. so i think we should now take some time to cooperate and work together on moving forwards and towards a new long-term agreement as well. i believe it is in the best interests of the house’s reputation, the future of our international agreements and the security of europe that we now give ourselves this time.
mr president, the share of world gdp occupied by old europe is in serious decline. if we exclude the countries that joined in the last enlargement round, the gdp of the world which was occupied by the 15 old states 40 years ago was 35%; today is 25%; in 15 years’ time, will be 15%. europe is becoming sclerotic, arthritic, because of the economic and social model which we used to pride ourselves on. there was a time immediately after the war when it looked as if it was working: paid holidays, maternity leave – what is not to like? – limited working hours and so on. but there comes a moment when reality imposes itself, and we have reached that moment now. it now takes four german workers to put in the same amount of hours over the year as three american workers; as a result, us share of world gdp over the last 40 years has remained roughly stable. we are like an elderly couple in a once grand house which is beginning to crumble around us, taking our eyes off the developments beyond our doorstep. our continent as a whole is becoming sterile, sclerotic and old.
mr president, i would like to give an explanation of the vote on the hennis-plasschaert report – the so-called ‘swift report’ – dealing with terrorist finance tracking. i think the vote was confusing, even by the standards of this place. we voted, i believe, not to vote, and then voted to send the report back to committee. i wanted to vote to withhold my consent to the conclusion of the agreement. however, i certainly did not want to vote in favour of paragraph 2 of the report, which was to submit recommendations for a long-term agreement under the legal framework of the lisbon treaty. i do not want any agreement or any agreements under the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty is in contravention of the bill of rights of 1689 and england’s other constitutional acts, which have not been expressly repealed and which remain in force. because of this, england – and, indeed, the united kingdom – is now living under an illegally constituted government.
mr president, this was a finely balanced issue, and i envy some of the moral certainty expressed by people on both sides of it. there were legitimate civil liberty issues; concerns that would be shared by people in the united states as well as in the european union. nonetheless, i feel on balance that the american administration went out of its way to meet the concerns which were expressed on this side of the atlantic and has come out with a proportionate proposal which takes account of the balance between security and freedom. i have spoken out against many of the measures that were introduced in this place over the past 10 years under the cover of security measures which were in fact simply about aggrandising the powers of the state. but, in this case, i do not think it comes in that category; we are looking at a measure where you can point to specific successes that it has had in terms of foiling terrorist atrocities. i am afraid i do not think that some of the critics in this house were really interested in civil liberties. they had two other agendas: first to assert the power of the federal parliament against the nation states, and, secondly, their reflexive belief that america is always and everywhere in the wrong. it is a pity. after the election of barack obama many on the left of this house were talking warmly about a new partnership across the atlantic. today we can see what faith to put in their words.
in writing. − i voted for the postponement, as i think we have much to gain by continuing to seek a better agreement, undertaking negotiations with the us on behalf of the 27 member states of the eu. for the same reasons, i voted in favour of the agreement, imperfect and unsatisfactory as it may be, as i think it offers the opportunity to negotiate until the end of 2010 for a new agreement. any negotiating failure would mean that we could lose any possibility for a full agreement.
in writing. − i strongly support the framework agreement which has been reached between the commission and european social partners representing the healthcare sector. protecting healthcare workers from injury and the potential transmission of viruses is of vital importance, and i am pleased that this proposal passed with so much support, particularly after such hard work from stephen hughes.
in writing. − this was an important vote calling for a european directive to improve protection for workers suffering from ‘needle-stick’ injuries. action needs to be taken as soon as possible to protect those working in the healthcare sector from contracting potentially fatal diseases such as hiv/aids and hepatitis through injuries from used needles. needle-stick injuries represent one of the most common and serious risks for health workers throughout europe, with an estimated one million injuries of this type across europe each year. i hope swift action will be taken to improve training and safety for those working with needles and sharp instruments so that the number of injures caused are drastically cut and the emotional distress caused to those involved limited. in addition, i hope the use of safer medical instruments will help prevent avoidable injuries for those working with needles on a daily basis.
mr president, press freedom and free democratic government are the foundations of the eu. for hugo chavez, the pseudo-dictator of venezuela, they are simply obstacles on his path to absolute power. he is a demagogue, not a democrat, and has ruined the venezuelan economy. yet, still, this house has its fair share of chavez apologists, like mr higgins: perhaps because chavez reflects their virulent anti-americanism and their resentment of the success of president uribe in neighbouring columbia. it is lamentable that other political groups on the left refuse to join with us in the political mainstream of the house in condemning the increasingly arbitrary and serious affronts to basic freedoms perpetrated by the chavez regime. his response to a tv station critical of his rule was simply to take it off the air. it reminds me of a similar situation in the prc – china – where the communist regime tried to stop a european company from broadcasting anti-communist tv programmes. chavez has, therefore – unashamedly – identified himself alongside china’s authoritarian and hard-line rulers. his closest friends internationally are dictators castro, lukashenko and ahmadinejad, which speaks volumes. my group, the ecr, supports the venezuelan people in their efforts to bring genuine democracy to that country.
author. − mr president, if the african union aspires to have anything like the authority and respect accorded to the eu in international affairs, then madagascar is surely a case in which the au should act decisively. instead we have seen the usual vacillation and tepid diplomacy following the fall of president marc ravalomanana, which is sadly reminiscent of the situation in zimbabwe. it is time for the african union to accept its responsibilities with regard to madagascar, where political tension and chaos have been endemic for some time. if the au cannot bring itself to sort out this mess, then it is reasonably fair to ask why the eu should do so. however, we should continue to remain engaged with madagascar in order to facilitate a smooth return to democratic government and to promote reconciliation. it is vital that those politicians and military officers who have been cited and carried out human rights abuses should be brought to justice. targeted sanctions against the illegitimate regime of andry rajoelina also offer an effective way to punish those who perpetrate the ongoing instability without harming the overwhelming majority of the malagasy people, who must be heartedly sick of the tensions and sporadic violence in their beautiful country.
author. − mr president, i have lost count of the number of times over the years in this house that we have debated the serious and worsening human rights situation in burma, but, if we are ever tempted to soften our rhetoric against the brutal military junta, we only have to look around our own parliament to remember why we need to maintain and increase the pressure on the generals. i am referring, of course, to aung san suu kyi, the opposition leader and nobel laureate, whose picture is displayed prominently on parliament’s premises in both brussels and strasbourg. she has consistently been denied a voice, as have her supporters. so the least we can do is speak up for them from here and promise them our unswerving support in their mission to bring about permanent democratic change in burma. we have also raised the fate of the minority rohingyas, who are once again bearing the brunt of a vicious campaign of discrimination and persecution by the army, and many have had to flee to neighbouring bangladesh. the generals may simply ignore our pleas, but that does not render them any less valuable because, as democrats, we have a solemn duty to denounce such savagery wherever we confront it in the world.
author. − mr president, it is great news that we have achieved the right number of signatures. thank you everyone for signing this written declaration.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, since the start of the economic and social crisis, over seven million people have joined the unemployment lines in europe. by the end of this year it is quite likely that over 25 million people will be unemployed. the good health of our economies and public finances, which we have striven so hard to put in order since the early 1990s, has been ruined in less than two years. despite costly recovery measures, all we have managed to avoid so far is a complete collapse of the system. economic growth remains extremely weak, and many people have lost faith in the idea of an early recovery. fears for the future trouble our societies, inequalities of all kinds have widened and some of our member states are in desperate need of eu-wide solidarity and protection, having become the targets of ruthless and uncontrolled speculation. the crisis has gravely undermined europe’s global competitiveness and weakened its political influence. that is the gloomy landscape in which europe now needs to reinvent its future in order to safeguard its model of economic and social development. president barroso, you are going to be asking the spring council where we want europe to be in 2020. that is a very important question, but can we afford to argue about the distant future without first providing an answer to those millions of europeans who are now feeling the impact of the crisis on their lives and who worry what will happen to their lives tomorrow – will they have a job; will they have the prospect of finding a new job? what answers can you give them? i cannot go back to my region tomorrow and tell my people that they do not need to worry, that we have a plan for 2020. i need to answer their immediate worries and fears, and i want to be able to tell them that they will be able to keep their jobs, that new jobs will soon start to be created and that these jobs will be decent jobs with decent salaries. at the moment the only medium-term policy agenda is that set down by the european council in december: the consolidation of public finances. by 2011 member states are expected to start consolidation to bring their public deficits within the 3% limit within two years. at the same time, unemployment will still be rising; growth will be too weak to bring unemployment down. there are other ways to pull europe out of the crisis: putting people at the heart of our policy agenda and especially those who have been most hit by the crisis. i would urge president van rompuy and president barroso to reconsider the nature of the so-called exit strategy. europe should choose a morally decent way out of this crisis: a human way based on our fundamental values – which actually is also a smarter way in economic terms. this will not be the case if macroeconomic policy is totally focused on rapid consolidation. that would mean cuts in public investment, in education and training, in social and in health services. consolidation cannot be achieved through tax rises alone. europe’s growth potential would suffer even more than it already has and as a result the recovery would be extremely slow and a large share of the current unemployed would become long-term unemployed. europeans deserve a more balanced and socially responsible policy approach. we believe this approach should involve an ‘entry strategy’ into the labour market, which should form an integral part of the 2020 strategy and constitute its road map for the years up to 2015. it should combine the macroeconomic policy agenda with structural policies in the economic, social and environmental fields to aim at the creation of at least five million net new jobs by 2015, particularly in the green economy. the european council should state this intention clearly at the march summit as a key objective of the new strategy. proper economic-policy coordination reaching well beyond the policing role of the stability pact should ensure that gradual fiscal consolidation in the different member states is combined with the preservation of key public spending in growth areas and key social policies. this will demand a political leap in thinking with regard to europe’s – and in particular the eurozone’s – economic governance. the march or june summit should give a mandate to its president, in close cooperation with the commission, to submit an ambitious plan for the strengthening of economic governance in the eu for decision by the december 2010 council. we need to challenge the old way of doing things if we want to learn lessons from the current crisis and make it history as soon as possible. this is a chance to make europe relevant to people and not just to markets. this can only become a reality if the 2020 strategy is indeed about people and about jobs – in other words, if it incorporates an ambitious social and decent-jobs agenda. in the name of my group i urge you to do all you can to put people, and not least the most vulnerable people, at the heart of the european project.
mr president, i would like to ask mr verhofstadt this question: are you advocating that countries which are not in the eurozone should bail out countries which are in the eurozone? is that what you are advocating?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr verhofstadt for reminding us all of the failure of left-wing economic policies in the united kingdom. we are very grateful for the advice and i hope my colleagues and i will be able to remedy that in the forthcoming general election. even before the recent crisis, the economies of europe were loosing ground to our major rivals and competitors. our growth level was less, our unemployment higher, our relative trading position was in decline and our share of global output falling. we had launched the lisbon strategy, but without enough conviction or commitment; unsurprisingly, it has not succeeded. europe 2020 must not go the same way. i am very pleased that my group was among the first to submit proposals to help with its progress. we now need to set a new course for our economies. we must recognise that governments do not create productive jobs or raise living standards. only competitive business and successful entrepreneurs can do that. our member states and the institutions of the european union then need to support them by reducing the burdens they face. we cannot expect to have dynamic economies if we make even greater demands on those who are generating growth and jobs by imposing heavy tax regimes and bureaucratic regulations. we need to encourage more research and development, improved higher education and better vocational training, as president barroso has just emphasised. the internal market needs to be reinvigorated and extended to new fields. the stakes could not be higher. for almost three centuries, the strongest economic powers in the world have also been those with the most liberal and the most democratic constitutions; the cause of freedom and economic prosperity have marched together. we are now entering a new era. by the end of this century, considerable economic power may have shifted to states with undemocratic governments. that authoritarian capitalism may not evolve gently into the democratic and responsible capitalism we enjoy today in europe and the west. we hope those states will liberalise. we will offer them friendly encouragement to do so, but we know the risks. it is in the interests of our citizens that the 2020 programme succeeds in stimulating the creation of good jobs and rising living standards, and it is in the interests of the free world that the 2020 programme points the way to a stronger economic future for all our citizens.
on behalf of the efd group. – president of europe – this long-awaited day. we were told that, when we had a president, we would see a giant global political figure: the man that would be the political leader for five hundred million people; the man that would represent all of us on the world stage; the man whose job was so important that of course you are paid more than president obama. well, i am afraid what we got was you. and i am sorry, but after that performance that you gave earlier… i do not want to be rude, but you know, really, you have the charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk. (protests) the question that i want to ask and that we are all going to ask is: who are you? i had never heard of you; nobody in europe had ever heard of you. i would like to ask you, mr president: who voted for you? (loud protests)and what mechanism – i know democracy is not popular with you lot – what mechanism do the peoples of europe have to remove you? is this european democracy? i sense, though, that you are competent and capable and dangerous, and i have no doubt that it is your intention to be the quiet assassin of european democracy and of the european nation states. you appear to have a loathing for the very concept of the existence of nation states; perhaps that is because you come from belgium, which of course is pretty much a non-country. (reactions)but since you took over, we have seen greece reduced to nothing more than a protectorate. sir, you have no legitimacy in this job at all, and i can say with confidence that i can speak on behalf of the majority of the british people in saying: we do not know you, we do not want you, and the sooner you are put out to grass, the better.
you may not like what i say, but just consider your behaviour. after the irish people voted ‘no’ in a referendum, you said that, by supporting the ‘no’ vote, our group had opened the door to fascism; you said that we had behaved as a group in the parliament like hitler and the nazis in the reichstag. we have been called mentally weak by danny cohn-bendit. you know, it has to be… it cannot be one way – (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i support the direction of the eu 2020 strategy, particularly at this time of economic crisis, and would urge that the eu focus on europe’s existing comparative economic and competitive advantages and use all tools and resources available, particularly in the area of r&d, to create real eu added value. i would seek for us to prioritise the completion of the single market for services and goods and to take an ambitious approach in creating a single market for innovative research. there should be wide encouragement of research and development both in universities and in private enterprises in europe so that we can be at the forefront of new sustainable industry and technologies. we must, however, remain vigilant against legislation that serves to hinder these developmental processes. we need to improve the link between private-sector and academic research and work to facilitate the transfer of knowledge into job- and wealth-creating enterprises. as well as improving the availability of finance for innovation, we need to ensure a reduced administrative burden, particularly for smes and micro-entities. following sme-friendly procurement policies and allowing smes to participate in public/private partnerships will be a start. an eu 2020 strategy focused on innovation in areas of existing expertise… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr barroso talked earlier on about wanting an ambitious strategy, and it is true that there are parts of the document eu 2020 which are ambitious, but certainly the greenhouse gas emission figure is not ambitious: it is pathetic, and it is not going to get us where we want to go. we should be looking at 40% by 2020. of course, the issue is not only about climate but also about resource availability and increasing resource efficiency. there is a lot, as well, that we seem to have seen before in this strategy, not least about economic growth coming through more and more as a goal rather than an indicator. it should not be the goal of a strategy. the eu has many areas where we have tried to decouple growth from transport, energy use, whatever, and it has long been decoupled from jobs. so, can we please not talk as if, somehow, growth is going to deliver jobs? we also need to be looking not just at reducing poverty but reducing inequalities, because that has known demonstrable benefits, and we need to make sure that our financial institutions do not undermine the ambitious goals that we might put in place.
madam president, i am most grateful to president van rompuy for describing his job spec, but i still do not quite understand why he is declining to answer my parliamentary question. i would like to ask him to reconsider his approach to the issue of parliamentary questions. can i also apologise to president van rompuy for the disgraceful performance of nigel farage. i guarantee him that the great majority of british meps are going to treat him with great respect.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to begin by welcoming this parliament’s involvement in un initiatives. in the autumn we lobbied in new york for the appointment of a new assistant secretary-general to raise the priority for human nights in the un, and next month we will once again be at the human rights council itself: not simply in dialogue with our eu representatives, but also working with third countries as part of europe’s common efforts to promote respect for human rights with the rest of the world. i am proud that, in geneva, we see that europe is a champion of human rights and, with the work due to start in june this year, our resolution today says that we should be a champion of further reform of the human rights council itself. the council remains too politicised, and our text today justly criticises those delegates who cynically lined up in their cars outside the un in geneva at 6 a.m. in order that they could be first in to fill up the speakers list to help sri lanka in its ‘no action’ motion to evade criticisms of violations in that country and to evade the spirit of the setting-up of the human rights council: that it should work throughout the year to deal with human rights abuses whenever and wherever they occur. in this parliament we agree with many of the principles enunciated by the spanish presidency in terms of further reform, and i would like to join with my friend mrs andrikienė to say that it will be a further death blow to the council if iran, with its devastating human rights record, is elected unopposed next time, as some fear. the hardest test on human rights for any nation is when we stand accused of human rights abuse. that is why i am very pleased that, at the organisational meeting in geneva on 18 february, both the european union and the united states spoke in favour of the joint study on secret detention being presented to the human rights council this time. we will not always agree with criticisms, but we must always be open to them if we expect others to do the same.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the human rights council has undoubtedly laudable aims but it is seriously compromised by some of its members. many of them have scant respect for human rights and democracy including cuba, china, pakistan, saudi arabia, nicaragua and gabon – and iran, as a potential candidate – to name just a few. clearly therefore this body has little substantive moral authority. it is all the eu has to engage with at un level and it is nevertheless doing some good work on food security and the rights of the child. however, they attack israel’s human rights record obsessively but their own contempt for human rights often escapes scrutiny. this parliament’s resolution rightly highlights that the 13th session omits to mention the serious human rights problems associated with regimes like guinea-conakry, afghanistan, iran and yemen. secondly this resolution makes reference to the cia and extraordinary rendition. we should think twice before attacking our american allies when they are still shouldering a vastly disproportionate burden of responsibility for our security in the european union.
mr president, whilst the commission is very keen on defending our human rights, we british have known since the thirteenth century exactly where we have stood. i am afraid to say that the lisbon treaty is a pale shadow of our magna carta. the commission likes to see itself as a global actor in the area of human nights and seems to be keen to judge others and to offer help and advice. however, it should take a critical look at itself. i find it deeply ironic that, whilst the eu rightly supports the rights of the kashmiris who patiently await a referendum on the right to self-determination that they were promised by the united nations in 1947, the commission actively seeks to take away competence from its own member states in the important areas of high policy, via the lisbon treaty. in fact this brings me on to the subject of a referendum that was promised to the british electorate but which simply never happened. therefore my electorate awaits self-determination, along with the kashmiris.
mr president, the countries of the european union should put their own houses in order before pointing their fingers at others. many european union members prosecute and imprison people for non-violent freedom of speech. in particular, they seek to make any opposition to immigration a criminal offence. book-burning is alive and well. political parties are banned, as in belgium, or their ban is sought on invented evidence, as in germany, or a backdoor ban is sought, as in the united kingdom, where my own party has been banned, by a court order sought by the government, from accepting new members for an indefinite period. it is not enough for countries to call themselves democratic: they must also respect freedom of speech, they must respect freedom of association and they must respect freedom of elections.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, let me say how delighted i am that we are finally discussing the goldstone report in plenary, because it is a vitally important issue, and to date the eu has been shamefully absent in these issues. it is quite unacceptable that the council still has not endorsed the recommendations of the goldstone report. the commission says it is taking it very seriously, but that is not good enough: we want an explicit endorsement. the presidency says that it backs it: well, it should back it publicly and explicitly and make sure that the rest of the council does as well. against that backdrop, i have to say i am pleased that in parliament’s motion for a resolution on the human rights council, which we will vote on tomorrow, we have two very strong paragraphs calling on the high representative and on member states to publicly demand the implementation of the report’s recommendations. the resolution further calls on them to actively monitor the implementation of the recommendations for consultation of eu external missions and with ngos in the field, because the evidence we have so far is that neither the israeli authorities nor hamas are taking their responsibilities sufficiently seriously. in israel the investigations into targets and tactics used during operation cast lead have been carried out by army commanders or military police, severely compromising the independence of the findings, and from the hamas side there is still a failure to address adequately the firing of rockets into southern israel. in the light of these failures it is clear that the eu should put pressure on the un secretary-general to prepare a genuinely independent assessment. finally, given the ongoing humanitarian crisis in gaza, i call again on the council and the high representative to put far more pressure on israel to lift the siege which is preventing reconstruction and exacerbating the suffering.
mr president, late last year you and the high commissioner for human rights, ms pillay, came to this parliament and told us that the goldstone report into the human rights violations on both sides in the gaza conflict was thorough, objective and met international standards. so let us not try to rubbish this report. let us act on it. with others in this debate, i have personally spoken with representatives of the israeli government, representatives of the palestinian authority and, in gaza itself, representatives of the commission set up by the de facto authority, to plead with them to cooperate with goldstone and to undertake their own credible and independent investigations to bring to account those responsible for violations. i spoke with the us assistant secretary of state, michael posner, when he was here, to encourage israel to do the same. to our spanish presidency colleague preparing for this friday’s un vote, i say: do not pursue eu consensus at all costs. the idea put forward by some for a unanimous eu abstention would be a travesty for all the victims of this terrible conflict. we should negotiate the best text possible, but then i hope more than the five eu states who voted ‘yes’ last time will vote ‘yes’, to keep the pressure up. this investigation into alleged breaches of international humanitarian law by the human rights council – just as much as the 2004 international court of justice ruling on the separation rule – should be treated with the proper status of legal rulings of international treaty bodies that they are. i condemn the leader of the conservative group in this debate, who has called the un, a ‘suspicious source’. it represents the highest aspirations for all of us on this planet and deserves all of our support. i would like to say – in a european union forged from war – for us, war crimes must be held to account. so when the un secretary-general reported to the security council concerning compliance by israel and the palestinians that ‘no determination can be made’, that cannot be good enough. these allegations must be determined, and europe must show determination that they should.
mr president, the goldstone report was commissioned by the un human rights council, which is inundated with israel’s enemies, so you could hardly have expected a balanced analysis. the us congress called the goldstone report irremediably biased and unworthy of further consideration or legitimacy. it fails to mention hamas terrorism and ignores the fact that israel is investigating 150 allegations of misconduct by the idf and will prosecute wrongdoers. but behind the controversy about this report lies a human tragedy, the tragedy of the palestinians who long for moderate and incorrupt leaders who will bring them peace, security and prosperity through a settlement with israel. neither must we forget the tragedy of civilians in southern israel, targeted relentlessly by hamas jihadi fanatics who hid in their schools or launched their deadly rockets. the ecr group continues to press for a two-state solution as the only way to bring about a long-term sustainable solution to the conflict in the middle east, but the goldstone report does nothing to bring us any closer to that point.
mr president, those of us that are friends of israel may well have questioned many aspects of the way in which israel intervened in gaza, but not the right of israel to defend herself and to take effective action against those that are planning and executing acts of terrorism against her. i have enormous sympathy for the ordinary palestinian people, but for 60 years they have been let down by those that claim to lead them and those amongst them whose profession is terrorism. it was clear from the start that a report emanating from the dubious human rights council of the un – and that, mr howitt, is what the leader of our group criticised not the un; i am afraid your rather petty party point was rather demeaning – would be a one-sided condemnation of israel. while it makes far-reaching demands of israel, it says little about hamas. it does not call for an end to terrorism and attacks on israel but merely asks so-called palestinian armed groups to renounce attacks on israeli civilians and to try and avoid harm to palestinian civilians. i see nothing in a 554-page report that offers constructive, positive proposals for lasting peace and stability. instead we find that the rhetoric of human rights and the instruments of the icc are enlisted to attack israel, and i have to say such distortion does no credit to the united nations.
mr president, there is guilt on both sides, but an overreaction on the part of israel over this report and indeed over operation cast lead. goldstone is a respected judge of considerable repute, and jewish. there are undoubtedly flaws in this report, but israel must recognise that the core of the criticism is based on fact. you only have to listen to israeli soldiers who admit to their dubious activities on occasions in the organisation ‘breaking the silence’. israel has been forced to admit the use of white phosphorous as a result of this inquiry, so why has there been no real investigation into the actions of some of their soldiers who have been involved in potential, if not actual, war crimes? the plc has admitted its transgressions, but israel on this issue and on the recent dubai assassination must cease to be so arrogant and recognise the justified concern of sensible decent people throughout the world.
mr president, can i ask mr kelly, and i am sure he will be glad to do so, to clarify. while the party that i represent in northern ireland is certainly in government, my party has been an entirely peaceful party and has not been shooting and killing anybody. rather that has been the ira and their political representatives.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is just under 100 years since all women were given the right to vote in the united kingdom. fighting for women’s rights is not a new phenomenon, and i want to pay tribute to all the women’s organisations round the world that are still fighting for equality between men and women. women want to be able to make independent choices about their careers or their family aspirations: the choice to work in a traditionally male occupation or, equally, the choice to look after children and work in the home. what we really need to do is empower women. we as conservatives believe in choice and, with choice, flexibility for women and subsequently equality. are we unintentionally making women less employable by demanding that businesses offer rights that they cannot deliver in today’s economic climate? equally, do we put women off staying at home with children because we as a society value this less than the workplace? the commissioner rightly said that we need to get women out of the recession and back working. i say we also need to secure jobs in small businesses, and this will help us achieve this goal. through over-legislation, we are risking the demise of small businesses, thus in turn limiting the very choices we are fighting to give women and, consequently, the equality they deserve.
mr president, this evening i attended a reception for the shen yun performing arts group in the members’ salon. last year i had the pleasure of seeing the shen yun show in london. its purpose is to revive interest in and to illustrate traditional chinese culture, a culture of course that the chinese communist party and government have done their best to destroy over the last 60 years. i was appalled to learn this evening that a planned performance in romania in april had been cancelled because of pressure from the chinese government. it is completely unacceptable that romania, a country that claims to be a democracy, allows itself to be pressurised in this way by a communist tyranny. i should also say that shen yun promotes the philosophy of truthfulness, tolerance and compassion so it is not surprising that the chinese government and communist party fear that contrary ideology. i would like to suggest to the president, mr buzek, that we redress the situation by inviting shen yun to stage a sample performance in the parliament at the earliest convenient date. this would be a clear gesture of support to those incomparably brave chinese democracy activists.
mr president, it is not your fault at all but it is an absolute shambles. we have waited here tonight for many hours to speak. it is now 10 o’clock in the evening. the one-minute speeches come in, we get allocated time but it is pathetic. if we are going to spend our time here on important issues for our own regions, we should certainly be allowed to have our say. there must be a set-up within your organisation, within this nonsense of a parliament, so that we can actually say that we are going to be here and we can be given time to speak. to think that we spend all this time here waiting and sitting in the hope of getting a speech is nonsense. our people back in our country, in the uk, are fed up with this nonsense because we cannot speak up for their rights and their issues. this is an absolutely travesty. i say to you take it back to mr barroso. i have mentioned it to him before that this whole thing is a farce. if i am going to be here at 10 o’clock at night on a monday, tuesday, wednesday and thursday night then we should at least be given a chance to speak on important issues relating to our member states. i ask you, sir, take it back now to your governors because this is not a democracy, it is a dictatorship.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the march i part session. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by adina-ioana vălean, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation concerning the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure within the european community and repealing regulation (ec) no 736/96 (com(2009)0361 – c7-0125/2009 – 2009/0106(cns)) (a7-0016/2010).
we would like to try again and see if it works with the german.
madam president, some of the amendments that we are considering tonight reflect our manic obsession with renewables. we continue to talk about the importance of reducing co2 emissions, even while the theory of man-made global warming is falling apart in front of our eyes. but if we were serious about reducing co2 emissions, surely we should be favouring nuclear power stations and not renewables. we have chosen to put in place incentives that grossly distort the market in favour of renewables and against nuclear power. europe needs competitive, reliable, mainstream, base-load, generating capacity which nuclear power can deliver. in the meantime, the pathetic trickle of intermittent electricity from wind farms cannot be relied upon to power europe’s industries. many countries in the eu, including my own, are facing the prospect of an energy crunch later this decade, partly as a result of the large combustion plant directive. unless we get on and build serious generating capacity, by which i mean nuclear and coal, then we will find ourselves with the lights going out.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 25 february 2010. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by vladimír maňka, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for amending budget 1/2010 (section 1 – european parliament)(2010/2014(bud)) (a7-0017/2010).
madam president, i speak on behalf of the s&d group but most members will recognise the need for extra resources after the lisbon treaty. however, there are a number of questions on the timing and the funding of these proposals. colleagues have raised some of those issues. there are also other questions. for example, if we are to have extra staff resources, on what evidence is this based? were figures just plucked from the air? or, if it was based on evidence, i think we should have been given that evidence. also, how will the extra staff for the secretariat be allocated? i think we should have been given that information as well. i also think that, if we accept the extra assistance allowance of eur 1 500 per month, we should also look at other costs, costs for extra office space which may be required. in fact, we should be given the global costs for that. this is going to be a difficult decision for members tomorrow. it is always controversial when you are asked to give yourselves resources. if we had been given all the information i and my colleagues have been asking for, the decision tomorrow might have been easier for members to take.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 25 february 2010. i would like to thank you all. my thanks also to our technicians and interpreters for eventually getting us through the evening. written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i want to appeal to commissioner damanaki for sensitivity to britain in the reworking of the common fisheries policy which seeks to include recreational sea angling in the regulation and control of sea fishing. i thought the whole point of quotas was to prevent diminishing stocks. european fisheries policy has been so unsuccessful in achieving sustainability that 91% of fisheries are on course to be classified as overfished by 2015. but the problem is how waters are being fished, not by whom. indiscriminate trawling and longline fishing empty our seas of marine life. but throwing back into the sea dead fish that have already been caught and are good for the table is surely the opposite of sustainability. what is sustainable fishing, however, is recreational sea angling, which is enjoyed by around a million people in the uk and which supports business thought to be worth around eur 2 billion in tackle trade alone across the continent. some 19 000 people are employed in some 1 300 businesses in england and wales as a result of the recreational angling industry. recreational sea anglers catch and remove from the sea only what they intend to eat, leaving small young fish to develop and breed, and throwing back what they do not strictly need. in some cases they tag the fish first, contributing to conservation programmes. if the commission gets its way, they will be forced to land everything they catch and count their quota against the national one. recreational sea angling supports ecologically sound self-sufficiency, which if practised by more people would lessen the demand that currently fuels indiscriminate commercial fishing and puts whole species of marine life under threat. the common fisheries policy has always been prejudiced against the british fleet, which is currently permitted to fish only 7% of the channel cod quota and only one fifth of the quota in our own territorial waters. perhaps the commissioner will see fit to favour the needs of harmless recreational fishermen in the uk in the same way as her predecessor showed open sensitivity to the needs of his own country’s fishermen when he opposed a ban on the sale of bluefin tuna, an industry that earned eur 100 million a year for his country, malta. the cfp has already wiped out most of what ought to have been a great renewable resource. recreational sea anglers account for perhaps 1% of the total catch that remains. the commission hesitates to protect a nearly endangered species, but sees fit to regulate fishing as hobby. it just goes to show where the commission’s interests lie.
mr president, for me and my constituents in northern ireland, the fishing industry and 27 years of the common fisheries policy is summed up in paragraph 138 of this report which reiterates that one of the few areas in which the cfp has been relatively successful is where member states have had control. the ideal for us would be the scrapping of the cfp or the united kingdom’s withdrawal from it, thus allowing member states to take back control of their waters. regretfully we are not living in this ideal world. the reform of the cfp will inevitably result in another second best for northern ireland’s fishermen, a second best that has, for the past three decades, been marked by an unjustified decline of our fishing industry, and unanswered questions surrounding the state of those fish stocks on which our industry depends. and this was absolutely demonstrated by the debacle around the december fishing council and the decisions on quotas. whilst it is very much a second best, i strongly support the regionalisation of the cfp as set out by the rapporteur. i support the view that the cfp should be based on three core principles of environmental, social and economic dimensions. and my most honest hope is that we can deliver a policy that will reverse the disastrous consequences of the cfp. however, i fear that radical change promised by some in this review will result in another lost opportunity for our fishing industry and our fish stocks.
mr president, our rapporteur said of the cfp that its original problems are still largely present. well i agree, and the 27 years of experience in scotland of the cfp¨has been a bad experience. if we want to move to a system of fisheries management which works, and i think that is what we all want to do, then we must be prepared to embrace a radically different approach. the over-centralised, inflexible cfp has failed miserably and we must accept that. but we must do something about it. conversely the commission acknowledges that, up to now, local management within the 12-mile zone has generally been successful; there is a lesson there. i have tabled amendments for which i seek support from colleagues. i seek in these amendments to delegate real powers to europe’s fishing nations; to encourage cooperation between fishing nations and stakeholders on a logical basis by sea basin; to encourage the incentivisation of sustainable management measures taken at national and local level and to recognise and maintain the historic rights and benefits accrued from the principle of relative stability. i firmly believe that those who have most to gain from the successful conservation of fish stocks, that is our fishing communities and fishing nations themselves, are best placed to make real decisions about management plans and to implement them for their fisheries, working together on a regional basis. more than just failing the fishing industry and the fish stocks, the cfp has actually contributed substantially to a downturn in public opinion about the eu as a whole, and that is also at stake. if we do not get this cfp reform right… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur, mrs patrão neves, for the very hard work that she has done on this report. we have an opportunity today to make a difference and to change the direction of a policy that everyone agrees has been a dismal failure. but to effect that radical change we must not repeat past mistakes. no more micromanagement from the centre, no more top-down regulation, no more one-size-fits-all approach to policy. any reform of the cfp must include an end to the debacle of discards. it must involve the stakeholders in the day-to-day management of stocks. it must ensure fleet capacities brought into line with stock levels. we have to put sustainability and conservation at the heart of our agenda. we must end iuu fishing and ensure a decent livelihood for all of those working in the sector. if we can give real substance to the core values of the cfp to maintain jobs and to maintain fish stocks we will have made real progress.
mr president, our party believes that preservation of fish stocks should be the responsibility of each member state, whose fishermen would have sole access to its own country’s waters. however, we recognise that there is a europe-wide, indeed worldwide, problem with overfishing and unsustainable fish stocks. there must be a revision of the present policy under which fishermen must return excess and even undersized fish to the sea, even though they are dead or dying as the result of swim bladder damage by being brought too quickly to the surface. new technology must come to the rescue. for example, one of my constituents, jeff stockdale from hull, a former fishermen, has invented a revolutionary pot trap that would encourage fish to enter it in order to escape from the tidal flow, but it would allow small fish to escape and larger ones to be released before being brought to the surface, if that should be necessary to avoid exceeding one’s quota. i commend this invention to the commission and indeed the whole world for consideration.
mr president, i hope the commissioner will take heart from the vote we had this month on bluefin tuna. i think it gave a good indication of the strength of feeling in the house and perhaps an indication also that you can count on many members here to vote for quite radical reform. yesterday many members attended a seminar i organised, a presentation by the marine stewardship council. i have always been rather fond of this organisation. it was set up about 10 years ago by a partnership between business and environmentalists, which, i think, is always good. it had a slow start, but by the end of this year they reckon about 10% of the world’s fisheries will be mse-certified. i think this gives credibility to the retailers who support the mse. i think it gives confidence to consumers and i think that it not only puts more money in the pockets of fishermen who have got their fisheries sustainably certified, but it also gives them a sense of pride. they have a piece of paper that they can hold up to their families and their communities which demonstrates that their hard work of today is not damaging the prospects of fish stocks’ survival in the future. this is entirely complementary to everything the commission does and i hope that the commissioner will support its work during her period in office. it is setting a gold standard.
mr president, i too would like to begin by adding my congratulations to the rapporteur. the common fisheries policy is a discredited policy and this reform gives us an opportunity for a fresh start. it seems to me that, if the cfp is going to regain its credibility, it must first of all have at its heart sustainability; if there is no fish, there is no future for the industry. secondly, stability and predictability for our fishing communities and our fishermen. thirdly, tackling over-capacity; we must find a solution to over-capacity. fourthly, recognising past efforts – most important. we also need a policy that comes up with a real solution to the problem of discards. fundamentally the reform of the cfp needs to provide a future for our fishing communities and our fishermen. fundamentally it seems to me that the key in terms of the cfp… (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. – it is now widely accepted that the 2002 reform of the common fisheries policy has failed miserably and the situation in the fishing industry continues to deteriorate rather than get better. the cfp has become a bureaucratic nightmare with over regulation and micro management plaguing the industry while achieving little in the way of positive outcomes. the imminent reform of the cfp presents an opportunity to take the policy in a new direction, away from excessive bureaucracy, and deliver on all the aspects which it should - environmentally, socially and economically. the core goal of a reformed cfp must be to ensure that fishermen can earn a decent livelihood while also achieving environmental sustainability. the challenge is to formulate a common fisheries policy which maintains jobs and fish stocks at the same time. a reformed cfp should do away with centralised overregulation from brussels and instead focus on ideas such as how stakeholders can deal with the day to day management of stocks locally.
mr president, on a point of order, i would like to speak under the same rule that the lady spoke under, in which she referred to my colleague nigel farage. it is called politics. you have foisted the lisbon treaty on our countries without consulting the people, and when my colleague says something about it and people do not like it, they complain. it is called politics. that is what we had in our country before the european union destroyed our democracy, so get used to listening to opposition in this place.
mr president, soviet communism was the most murderous ideology devised by our species. in empirical terms, it murdered more people than any other political system, and disproportionately, those casualties were suffered by ukraine. and this tragedy continues. the name of ukraine, as i understand it, means ‘frontier’, or ‘edge’, and here it is as an edge between two large blocs, the division between slavophiles and westernisers within that country being mirrored by the rival ambitions of its neighbouring powers. what could we most usefully do to help that country? we could offer to open our markets. ukrainians are an educated and industrious people, but they enjoy relatively cheap costs and relatively competitive exports. if we simply admitted them fully into a european customs union we would substantially improve their quality of life. instead, what we are doing is urging more bureaucracy on them, building capacity, trying to draw them into the cooperative structures of the european union. they are not asking for that! they do not want our hand-outs. all they want is the opportunity to sell.
mr president, it is human nature when something unexpected happens that we try and fit the facts into our existing weltanschauung. the psychiatrists have a fancy phrase for it, an even fancier phrase than weltanschauung: they call it ‘cognitive dissonance’. thus, for example, when there is a ‘no’ vote in a referendum, the reaction of this house is to say that the people wanted more europe. they were voting ‘no’ because this did not go in a sufficiently federalist direction. and so it is with the current economic crisis. we are in a crisis because we have run out of money. we have spent everything, we have exhausted our treasuries, we have exhausted our credit, and now the house comes along and says that we need to spend more. we need more european infrastructure projects, we need a higher budget. mr president, that is another dose of the medicine that caused the illness in the first place. we have seen since the 1970s where that process leads. it leads to a reduction of gdp, it leads to unemployment, it leads to stagnation and it leads to this part of the world falling further and further behind its rivals.
mr president, since the end of the cold war a revolutionary new doctrine has imposed itself on the 200 states that comprise the united nations. the idea has arisen that laws should not emerge from national legislatures which are in some sense connected to their populations but rather should be imposed by an international technocracy of jurists who answer only to their own consciences. we are reversing 300 years of democratic development. we are getting away from the idea that the people who pass the laws must answer in some way through the ballot box to the rest of their populations and we are reverting to the pre-modern idea that lawmakers should be accountable only to their creator or to themselves. through these instruments of human rights codes, these international bureaucracies have the ability to reach behind the borders of member states and to impose their own wishes at odds with those of the local populations. let me finish with a quotation from judge bork in the united states, the quashed supreme court nominee under reagan, who gave his name to the language when he said: ‘what we have wrought is a coup d’état: slow-moving and genteel, but a coup d’état none the less.’
mr president, i am delighted to agree with mr portas and the communist group on this issue. all across europe, from ireland to latvia, governments are struggling to respond to the financial crisis, to the credit crunch, by reducing their costs but we in this house, uniquely in this house, are massively increasing our expenditure in both relative and absolute terms. we are increasing the perks and the budgets available to members and to staff. the justification which is given in this report is a very interesting one because the reason that we are told we need all of this extra spending is because of the additional responsibilities created by the lisbon treaty. in a way that is true, but i think not in the way that the authors intended it. what we see is that the bureaucracy is expanding to service the needs of the bureaucracy. the primary function of the lisbon treaty is to provide additional work and additional revenue for all the tens of thousands who are now directly or indirectly dependent on the european union for their livelihoods. the one lot of people that we have not consulted about this are the electorates and i would love to see issues like this put before our voters to see whether they approve of our voting ourselves additional resources at such a time, when now all of them are tightening their own belts.
mr president, it gave me no pleasure today to vote against a report that contains many potentially positive aspects for the future of our fisheries. yet the fact remains that for my fishing industry the common fisheries policy continues to wreak havoc. the hague preference regime annually discriminates against northern ireland’s fishermen by deducting quota from their allocations. eleven years of temporary closures in the irish sea have reduced our whitefish fleet from over 40 trawlers to six, and yet we still talk about over-capacity. then there is the question of applying rules developed for fisheries in the north sea to the irish sea: a consistent or common approach that is out of touch with reality on the ground. consider only the net gauges, which were agreed for admirable reasons but which europe imposed upon the fishing industry with a wholesale failure to communicate the implications of the change to the new method. that is why, while i am encouraged by some aspects of the report, i voted against it.
mr president, for 11 years in this house i have been protesting about the common fisheries policy’s negative impacts on my home country: under international law the united kingdom had 65% of the fish stocks in north sea waters covered by the cfp but we were allocated 25% by volume or 15% by value under the quota system. that argument is becoming academic because the fish have effectively disappeared. even in the time that i have been in this house there has been a calamitous decline in what ought to have been a renewable resource. in other countries which found a way to incentivise ownership, to give the fishermen a reason to treat the seas as a renewable harvest, they managed to sustain their fish levels: in iceland, in norway, in new zealand, in the falkland islands. but in europe we had the tragedy of ‘the commons’, where we said it was a common resource to which all vessels had equal access. you cannot persuade a skipper to tie up his boat when he knows that the waters are being plundered by someone else. as i said, the argument is now effectively academic. it is over. our boats are grounded. our fishing ports are sterile. our oceans are empty.
in writing. − despite the disappointment of copenhagen, the eu cannot allow the lack of international consensus to slow down our own efforts in effecting a sustainable energy policy. the scottish government is continuing to pioneer in the field of renewable energy and the eu has an important role too in driving forward the agenda. the effective promotion of our energy policy requires adequate information on infrastructure and i voted accordingly today.
in writing. − the member states of the ecr have signed the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the beijing platform for action. we therefore feel that for the eu to 'become a party to the convention' as a whole is unnecessary and we oppose the eu acting in this state-like way. whilst the ecr group places great importance on equality between all people, we oppose further legislation at eu level; we believe the gender equality issue is best driven at national level with the involvement of civil society within local communities. for these reasons we have voted against the resolution.
in writing. − along with my group i gave conditional support today for an increase in the secretarial allowance at this stage in the procedure. this support is conditional on the evaluation of the use of this allowance, as called for in the maňka report. our final position on the increased allowance will be contingent on the outcome of this evaluation.
in writing. − while this report points to a rather less awful cfp than the monstrosity we have now, it nevertheless recommends leaving fisheries under the predatory control of the un-democratic and anti-democratic ‘european union’, and, for this reason, cannot be endorsed by ukip.
in writing. − while this report points to a rather less awful cfp than the monstrosity we have now, it nevertheless recommends leaving fisheries under the predatory control of the un-democratic and anti-democratic ‘european union’, and, for this reason, cannot be endorsed by ukip.
in writing. − the report contained many good and important elements and there is a consensus that the centralised, one-size-fits-all model of the cfp has been a disaster. a number of amendments tabled by myself were successful and thus the report recognises relative stability, the need to incentivise conservation efforts and the success that has been national control within the 12-mile zone. however, the report goes on to state that historical rights should be reviewed. fisheries management must be returned to the fishing nations; those fishing nations must not lose their historical rights. i therefore voted against a report which invites an attack on such fundamental traditional rights of access to fish stocks.
in writing. − i supported amendments put forward to change the common fisheries policy in a way which would have ended some of the distortions that exist already. increasing any funding for renewal of fleets or setting prices for fish centrally are particularly distorting and allow for increased use of subsidies. fishermen in the uk, particularly along the south coast in the 10 metre boats, are often badly affected by imbalanced quotas and subsidies to other national fishing fleets. hastings and rye mp, mike foster, has brought to my attention the need for the marine fishing agency and the commission to end discriminatory and distorting practices, especially in the catching of cod along the uk south coast, and particularly his own constituency hastings and rye, which we both represent.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am going to start by saying that this was a speech i did not expect to be making until a few moments ago, but it is important that we celebrate international women’s day, and especially this one, some 100 years since this celebration was first proposed. it should be a day, yes, to celebrate how far women have come, but, yes, also to raise awareness about how much further we still have to travel in terms of equality. mr president, you exhorted that there should be more women in this parliament. the achievements are good but they are still not good enough. if i look at parliament in my own country, some estimates say it will take us 200 years to reach parity at the current rate of progress, so we are not going fast enough to really achieve proper equality. the other issue that this parliament is working on this week is human trafficking and violence against women. last week i visited an exhibition in my constituency at home with an exhibition of paintings and photographs of women who had been trafficked from a country next to our union – moldova – into our union. some estimates say that women – and, indeed, men – are being trafficked at a rate as high in numbers as was comparable with the whole of the african slave trade in 350 years, but women are the main victims. if we, as a european community, cannot do something about this and deal with the women who are the victims of that trade, then it would be a poor thing if we do not make progress on this day. the other issue we should concentrate on are the many women’s health issues that have to be addressed and which are not given the time and energy that they should be. much has been achieved, much can be celebrated, but there is very much more to do.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, international women’s day gives us a united opportunity to focus on issues and challenges women face today – to focus on the various forms of inequality that many women experience, but also to celebrate achievements by women throughout the century. we in the united kingdom are especially proud to celebrate figures that have helped our nation progress in the field of women’s rights: women such as emily pankhurst, leader of the british suffragettes, which won women the right to vote, shirin ebadi, winner of the nobel peace prize 1993 for her efforts in promoting human rights, especially for women, and margaret thatcher, the first british woman prime minister, elected in 1979. the issue of women reaching high positions and being given equal opportunities to men is just as relevant today as it was in the uk when the first female prime minister was elected. we can provide educational opportunities and employment, but the pay gap still remains. we can legislate against discrimination in the workplace, but we cannot legislate against the pressures of juggling work, family life and managing a home. as a parliament we should be working towards assisting women to have a choice in what they do. if they choose to go into a career, they must be supported to do so on an equal playing field. if they chose to stay at home and bring up their family, they must not be undervalued. the phrase ‘just a housewife’ needs to be outlawed. no woman is ‘just’ anything. each is valued for her contribution. so, if we talk about great women achievers, i believe one group of women must head the list and in the uk we celebrate their contribution on 14 march, that is, the mothers of the world: the women who voluntarily give up their own ambitions and contribute their life to bring up their children. for, by doing so correctly, they contribute towards a goal we all have – a society based on equality and tolerance, where human rights are respected, whatever your gender.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, on this day i wish to ask all politicians and legislators to stop issuing all these demagogic laws on equality that make life more difficult for women who wish to work. they are scaring organisations away from employing women. equality is not about laws: it is about behaviour. as a working mother, in all my 30 years of professional life i have never been recruited or promoted on anything other than my qualifications and merit, and i would be insulted if somebody gave me special treatment merely due to my chromosomes. however, i do have specific requests for this parliament to defend the women of this world. i want the spanish land-grab problem to be debated and resolved, to end the suffering of many women and men who risk demolition of their houses and cannot live in them. do you not think this is violence? i want this parliament to stop the flow of eu funds to the regions where this enormous breach of human rights is taking place. do you not think this is violence? i want this parliament to hear and protect those who want to communicate their concerns on structural irregularities affecting the european budget, as i did eight years ago, and ensure they do not suffer my fate. is this not violence? i want you to withhold discharge to the european commission until the auditors clear 100% of the budget without reservations. this is how i wish this parliament to honour the women and the men of europe, those who with their taxes allow this european union to exist.
mr president, it being international women’s day i wanted to raise a particular female health issue which persistently remains a cinderella issue. i stood here two, maybe three years ago talking about a silent, unseen, painful and debilitating female illness – endometriosis: an illness which destroys lives, families and fertility; you see some women do not even have the chance to be mothers. maybe it is because it is about women’s menstruation that we do not want to talk about it; do not even want to name it. so i will say it again – endometriosis. it still has no known cause, still no known cure and still affects up to one in every ten women and rising. this week is also endometriosis awareness week across europe. so, when are we going to take those women, their families and their sufferings seriously? it is good that you are here, commissioner, to hear this; perhaps proper dedicated funding – and, i hope, before next year.
mr president, i would like to bring to your attention the fact that now we are actually going to have a referendum in wales. yes, believe it or not, a referendum. we were denied one on the constitution, we were denied one on the lisbon treaty, but we are to have one in wales on further powers for the welsh assembly. now that is the issue at stake, but there is a sting in the tail. all the political parties in wales – labour, plaid cymru, liberal democrats and conservatives – are supporting this and they are wishing for more powers. well, i have got news for them: i do not. they are treating people in wales like fools. at a time now, when independence will be next on the agenda, we could end up having as many as 80 assembly members. in wales we have care homes under threat, we have schools under threat of closure, our roads are like a third world country, and yet our political class in cardiff bay, as over here, are determined to push ahead with this mad idea. i welcome the fact that there is a referendum, but i hope the good people of wales stand up and vote ‘no’.
mr president, buckfast abbey has been producing fortified wine in devon, in my constituency, since 1890. unfortunately, this wine has now come under attack from some labour party politicians. they would rather blame one alcoholic product for an increase in antisocial behaviour than accept that their social policies have failed. buckfast wine should, apparently, be banned because it contains both alcohol and caffeine. if that happens, what happens next? will young people be prohibited from mixing red bull with vodka? will irish coffee be banned? how will this be policed? this is the nanny state gone mad. calling for one product to be banned will not solve the problem of irresponsible drinking. we should trust consumers to enjoy whatever drinks they choose. the majority should not be punished for the actions of the ignorant few. do people honestly think that, if buckfast was banned, the hooligans who currently drink it to excess would start drinking tea?
mr president, the eu’s ‘harmonise everything’ policy creates many casualties, not least the instrument meteorological conditions (imc) rating for private pilots in the uk. this is a vital safety rating that enables holders to fly on instruments in cloud and poor visibility, which is not permitted by the private pilot’s licence. it is unique to the uk because of our capricious weather conditions, and it also has a very good safety record. in developing a harmonised european pilot’s licence, the european aviation safety agency is about to wipe out the imc rating, leaving many private pilots unable to fly unless they can guarantee cloudless skies for the entirety of their trip. this is a bit like guaranteeing that england will win the world cup on a penalty shootout. after losing visual perspective, an untrained pilot has about 50 seconds to regain it before losing control of his aircraft. therefore the abolition of the imc rating is a serious threat to the safety and future of private flying. the european aviation safety agency must think again. this is yet another example of sensible, practical british law being subordinated to over-the-top and expensive eu legislation.
mr president, global capitalism moves people around the world – some legally, some illegally – as though they were simply expendable facts of production. it moves goods and even services around the world in a bid to undercut the prices of its latest victim, closing factories, farms and offices and throwing workers on the scrapheap. it moves money around the world, closing workplaces in europe and the developed world and opening them in places where wage rates are a fraction of the cost. the european union’s embrace of global capitalism is an embrace that will smother us all. whenever there is an economic crisis, politicians line up to denounce protectionism. however, it is only protectionism that will enable us to rebuild our manufacturing bases and guarantee our peoples their livelihoods. economies exist, or should exist, to serve our peoples. we do not exist to serve economic forces. there is no way in which europe can compete with the third world without becoming part of it, and it is happening already.
rapóirtéir. − a uachtaráin, is é seo an chéad rialachán leasaithe atá os comhair an chruinnithe iomlánaigh agus atá ag teacht faoi réir fhorálacha chonradh liospóin. ba mhian liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis na scáthrapóirtéirí – bean soullie, bean willmott, bean vălean, bean evans, an tuasal nicholson agus bean rosbach – ar son a gcuid oibre le linn sraith idirbheartaíochtaí casta; agus is mór agam an tacaíocht as cuimse a fuarthas ó sheirbhísí dlí agus aonad comhchinnteoireachta na parlaiminte. ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an chomhairle agus leis an choimisiún fosta. aontaíodh ar shubstaint an chomhaid sa choiste um chomhshaol ag tús mhí na nollag, agus ó thús na bliana seo bhíomar ag déileáil leis na gnéithe áirithe a bhain le conas airteagal 290 den chonradh ar fheidhmiú an aontais eorpaigh a chur i bhfeidhm i leith an chomhaid seo. uaireanta bhí an chosúlacht ar an scéal nach n-éireodh linn teacht ar chomhaontú. d’éirigh linn, áfach. thángamar ar réiteach don chomhad seo. agus sin á dhéanamh againn, chinntíomar gur féidir le húinéirí peataí leanúint leo ag taisteal trasna teorainneacha an ae lena gcuid peataí agus córas idirthréimhseach a chur san áireamh a ligeann do bhallstáit áirithe éilimh níos daingne a chur i bhfeidhm, ag brath ar an ghalar, ar feadh tréimhse ocht mí dhéag. aithníonn an rialachán leasaithe a mholfar an dul chun cinn a rinneadh go nuige seo. agus lena chinntiú go mbeidh feabhas ar scéal an chonfaidh san ae as seo amach, sínfear an córas idirthréimhseach i gcúig bhallstát go dtí an 31 nollaig 2011 – faoin am sin beidh forálacha ar ghluaiseacht neamhthráchtála peataí mar a gcéanna ar fud an ae. moltar go mbeidh feidhm ag an gcóras idirthréimhseach maidir leis an phéist ribíneach (echinococcus multilocularis) agus sceartáin, leis, go dtí an 31 nollaig 2011. maidir leis na nósanna imeachta nua a ghlacann áit nós imeachta an choiste, ba chóir an coimisiún a chumhachtú faoin rialachán seo chun gníomhartha tarmligthe a ghlacadh faoi réir airteagal 290 den chonradh, trína dtarmligeann parlaimint na heorpa agus an chomhairle chuig an choimisiún an chumhacht chun gníomhartha neamhreachtacha a bhfuil feidhm ghinearálta leo a ghlacadh chun cur le heilimintí neamhriachtanacha nó chun iad a leasú. mar shampla, le go bhféadfar galair eile seachas confadh a shrianadh – galair a mhéadódh mar gheall ar ghluaiseacht peataí ainmhithe – d’fhéadfadh an coimisiún bearta coisctheacha sláinte a ghlacadh trí ghníomhartha tarmligthe. ar an dara dul síos, le go bhféadfar dul chun cinn teicniúil a chur san áireamh, d’fhéadfadh an coimisiún, trí ghníomhartha tarmligthe, modhnuithe ar cheanglais theicniúla a ghlacadh i ndáil le haithint ainmhithe; agus ar an tríú dul síos d’fhéadfaidís, trí ghníomhartha tarmligthe, modhnuithe ar cheanglais theicniúla maidir le vacsaíniú frith-chonfaidh a ghlacadh le go bhféadfar forbairtí eolaíochta agus teicniúla a chur san áireamh. d’éirigh linn foclaíocht a chomhaontú maidir leis sin uile agus maidir le socruithe ar chur i bhfeidhm airteagal 290 den chonradh i leith chomhaid seo, agus sin uilig a choinneáil a chomhsheasmhaí is féidir maidir le cumhachtaí pharlaimint na heorpa faoi chonradh liospóin. tugann an comhaontú sa chéad léamh le fios a thábhachtaí atá práinn an chomhaid seo ag gach duine páirteach. mar fhocal scoir, féadaim a rá gur comhartha tábhachtach daonlathach é, agus gur cóir don institiúid seo a bheith bródúil as, gur thug rapóirtéir ó cheann de na grúpaí beaga faoina leithéid seo de chomhad casta, le comhoibriú gníomhach ó scáthrapóirtéirí ó ghrúpaí polaitiúla eile. ba mhaith liom, arís eile, buíochas a ghabháil le gach duine ó na trí institiúid – an pharlaimint, an chomhairle agus an coimisiún – a d’oibrigh gan staonadh ar an gcomhad seo. tá súil agam go dtacaíonn comhghleacaithe leis an obair sin trína vóta.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, can i start by thanking mrs de brún, who took on this dossier expecting it to be fairly expeditious. it then became very complicated as we found ourselves negotiating whole new delegated acts without precedents for future acts, so congratulations to her and to the council and commission. commissioner, one of your first tasks here is to find a solution. a lot of the debate has been about the technical aspects of this legislation, but it is an important piece of legislation for lots of citizens, being about moving their pet freely around the eu. when we first adopted this legislation a few years ago there was a lot of support for it, but we have this transitional period, which mr fjellner has mentioned, which is important to prevent diseases spreading to states that do not have those diseases. i welcome the commission’s support for extending the transitional period so that, when we do have the new legislation, all countries will have the same legislation. we will by that point have much higher levels of animal health and animal welfare across the eu. on the comitology issue, our group supports the compromise that has been negotiated. we think that parliament should have parity – equality – with the council in legislation. the whole issue was about the expert groups and who these experts should be. what we would like to say is that when we talk about experts being consulted this has to refer to all experts, and the commission will be looking with experts from the member states, from non-governmental organisations, and also those perhaps which the european parliament is recommending. i am very pleased that we have this agreement. it enables the transitional period to be agreed in time for when the derogation runs out, and we look forward to hearing the commission’s new proposals for the future legislation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all let me begin by thanking the rapporteur for all her hard work on this report. what many of us felt at the beginning would be a dossier which would not cause us much of a problem turned out to be an awful lot more tricky than we thought. unfortunately the rapporteur had to take the brunt of most of the negotiations, but she certainly had to work very hard to ensure this report got through within the necessary time frame, which was very important as we were under pressure to secure the extension of her derogation which was due to run out in june of this year. in my opinion this is a small but vital piece of legislation which will protect those areas and those countries that are concerned by the threat of rabies; the disease continues to occur in some parts of the eu, and hopefully by the end of 2011 vaccination programmes will have proved successful in eradicating the disease once and for all. until then, however, we have found a way which allows us to continue to enforce our own stricter requirements under the transitional period before we move, in line with other eu member states, to the general regime.
mr president, i just wanted to say a few words in praise of the legislation we have. i understand it was based upon the united kingdom’s pet travel scheme, which was introduced about a decade ago. that helped us reduce dramatically the quarantine regulations we had in our country which had caused much distress to both pets and their owners. i understand the first animal to take advantage of the pets travel scheme was a dog called frodo baggins, and after that many hundreds of thousands of animals have been able to travel more freely. then the eu brought in this legislation, following very similar principles, about five years ago, and it has proved a great success. hundreds of thousands of animals now travel with their owners each year across europe. i am told that 60% of them happen to be british animals, which may say something about the british character, but we will not go there in this forum. of course we have also kept the balance right. the concern was to enable movement without spreading disease, and the reality is that rabies has been kept very firmly under control – 2 700 cases 20 years ago down to less than 300 cases last year, and not one single case associated with the movement of domestic animals under this scheme. i am somewhat disappointed that ferrets are not moving in the numbers that i originally anticipated. when this legislation was first discussed, many ferret owners in the united kingdom came to me and asked why this legislation could not include their animals too. they wanted to take them to ferret exhibitions across europe. the commissioner is looking surprised, but there was a debate. apparently you can vaccinate a ferret against rabies but the vaccination does not show, so it was problematic. eventually we decided that the incidence of rabies in domestic ferrets was so small that we could include them, but apparently, i am told, there have been relatively few movements. perhaps one reason why – to answer jo leinen’s point – is that in some countries, like portugal, ferrets are still classified as vermin so pet owners are reluctant to take their animals to those countries. it could be worse – it could be china, i suppose. commissioner, just to finish, the great advantage to me is that i can now look to my constituents and, when they ask me what the european union has done for them, i can say that we have made it possible for you to take your pet on holiday – your cat, your dog or your ferret.
mr president, i understand that the original idea for the creation of pet passports came from the official monster raving loony party in the uk, which probably best sums up this dangerous scheme. my country had a compulsory six-month quarantine period for domestic pets. under the eu pet passport system, this important bulwark against the spread of disease was summarily removed. the unelected european commission was able to overrule the democratically elected british government and introduce a system without a quarantine period that relies on vaccinations and the accuracy of paperwork. as a farmer i know something about vaccination. it is by no means a guarantee against animals bringing diseases across borders. the effectiveness of the vaccination can be compromised by many things, including its being administered to an animal that already has the disease it is being inoculated against. vaccinated animals can also be carriers of the disease without displaying a symptom. batches of vaccine of varying quality and forged paperwork is a real probability. i understand there is no standardisation of enforcement of the scheme. some countries require the formal passport while others will take documentation in any form; still others will not accept the passport as proof of vaccination. many airlines are unable to provide details of the formal procedures and staff are poorly trained. in other words, it is an accident waiting to happen. there is a saying in my country, ‘if it is not broken, why fix it?’ such advice is wasted on the commission. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
mr president, i would just ask the honourable gentlemen, would he not think his tirade against the european union would be stronger if the british government had not introduced similar legislation before the european union did?
mr president, i think that the european union has become far too big, has far too many cultures, and i simply do not trust this system at all and it is going to get worse.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that we can all be proud of the swift progress made on this file, which has been conducted under extreme time pressures and in a difficult legal context. the 18-month prolongation of the transitional regime regulating the movement of pets into five member states will give them the time to adapt to the regime which applies in the rest of the european union. i have also confirmed that the commission does not intend to propose a further prolongation of this transition time. at the same time, it will allow the commission to prepare a comprehensive proposal aimed at revising the regulation in its entirety and, in particular, bringing the old comitology provisions into line with the spirit and the letter of the lisbon treaty. i have to agree that this is an important file for european citizens, and i am pleased that we have had a successful conclusion.
rapóirtéir. − a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom chomh maith fáiltiú roimh an choimisinéir dalli chuig parlaimint na heorpa agus fáiltím fosta roimh an deis oibriú leis an choimisinéir dalli. fáiltím roimh a ráiteas an tráthnóna seo sa pharlaimint. mar a dúirt sé, aontaíonn substaint na tuarascála seo agam le cur chuige thogra an choimisiúin. gabhaim buíochas chomh maith le gach éinne a labhair sa díospóireacht seo anocht; an chuid is mó i bhfabhar an chórais atá molta, ach go raibh corrdhuine ina aghaidh. cur chuige eolaíocht-bhunaithe atá i gceist i dtogra an choimisiúin agus sa tuarascáil seo agamsa. i bhfianaise na staideanna áirithe sna ballstáit sin maidir le confadh, roghnaigh an coimisiún cur chuige cúramach réamhchúraim. is fóirsteanach go mbeidh deireadh an fhadaithe atá molta i gcomhthráth leis an tréimhse lena bhfuiltear ag dréim go gcuirfidh an coimisiún eorpach deireadh le ciste ae maidir le clár vacsaínithe a bhfuil sé mar aidhm aige confadh ó ainmhithe fiáine a dhíothú i roinnt ballstát. mar a dúirt an coimisinéir dalli agus bean vălean maidir leis an dáta atá molta, féadfar an bunachar a athrú fosta agus an fhoireann atá ann cheana féin a athoiliúint. sínfear na córais idirthréimhseacha sna cúig bhallstát go dtí deireadh 2011, agus faoin am sin beidh forálacha ar ghluaiseacht neamhthráchtála peataí mar an gcéanna ar fud an ae. san idirlinn beidh daoine ábalta dul thar na teorainneacha san ae lena gcuid peataí, ach tá an córas idirthréimhseach ann a ligeann do roinnt ballstát ceanglais níos déine a chur i bhfeidhm san am sin. mo bhuíochas arís do gach éinne a chuidigh leis an obair seo. obair chasta a bhí ann in amanna, ach obair chrua agus obair fhiúntach ag an deireadh. go raibh maith agaibh ar fad.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 9 march 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on the revision of the package travel directive.
mr president, i want to thank the commissioner very much both on behalf of our group, but also as the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, for making a very timely appearance before us this evening, and also for having responded so quickly to the oral question from my committee on 3 december which set out a number of areas which he has answered very comprehensively. i think that we have some time available now, as the commission is putting its ideas together, in which my committee and, i am sure, the committee on transport, whose representatives are here as well, will want to reflect together about many of the issues that you have raised and how this is going to move forward. i think that, given the nature and change of the whole of the travel and holiday business, and many of the issues raised by colleagues tonight, the new directive needs to be clearly future-proofed, but that means it does not need to be too rigid in terms of trying to anticipate consumer needs. however, one thing i do think the commission needs to think about is that there are other aspects that online consumers need to consider when they are shopping for travel; issues about the safety of the hotel, if they have young children, a safe swimming pool for example, or the fire safety of the hotel, where my committee has done extensive work before. we need some proper indicators and markers there, which may be done by voluntary agreement, but i do think that this needs to be a wide-ranging and ambitious proposal. i get a sense from this that this is what you would like to do, and i think my committee would give you full support in coming up with such a proposal.
mr president, i would just like to comment on the third point of the oral question this evening on airline bankruptcy. a recent resolution in this house called for the establishment of a guarantee fund that would be used to compensate passengers in case of airline bankruptcy. however, the establishment of such a fund would inevitably have to be funded by the consumer, meaning passengers would be required to pay even more for their tickets. at this stage, this is an unnecessary step and would add to the sizeable list of existing airport taxes, security charges and other duties that they are already forced to pay. in addition, the commission should ensure that the national aviation authorities and regulators uphold existing obligations, such as regularly carrying out financial status checks of airlines and exercising their right to revoke airline operating licences before liquidation occurs. we ask the commission to vigorously pursue this course of action now. finally, i would call on the commission to pursue other options which could protect passengers in this regard, including the provision of obligatory information regarding risk, insurance options and other protective mechanisms.
mr president, i would like to add my support to what colleagues have said on the rights of disabled travellers, what ms kadenbach said about children, the issue of fire safety in hotels and, in particular, the issue of sprinkler safety in all eu hotels, and the need to future-proof the new proposal. who could have predicted the rate of change that we have seen in the past 20 years? there are, however, two specific issues that i would like to raise. we have heard about the issue of credit-card charging, and there has been discussion on hidden charges. however, airline and travel companies are exploiting the fact that more people use their credit cards to book due to the protection they receive from using them, by placing double credit-card charges for each leg of our journey or placing credit-card charges on passengers for one online booking. you might have one online booking, but you are charged four times for using your credit card because you have four passengers involved. commissioner, could you please look at this in order that people are protected. there is, finally, the issue of bankruptcy. in scotland we saw the demise of globespan, and we must ensure that people are compensated and that no one loses out. after all, this is the biggest budget expense many families have in a year and they expect us to protect them. we need to do more, so, thank you, commissioner.
mr president, i am trying out the new rule we have so that we can use our blue paper. i was interested when the previous speaker was talking about their own country, about the reservations that they had and they were talking about the 0.7% gdp and the tobin tax. obviously the tobin tax is quite different from the financial transaction tax and this is where the confusion often is leading. i think you are absolutely right that we need to get clarity, but maybe i would like you to go into a little bit more depth about maybe why we are not fulfilling the 0.7% and also about how we can get clarity about what we are trying to get here in terms of a transaction tax that actually works.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, following on from the recent turmoil in the global financial markets across the world, academics, politicians and nobel prize-winning economists are rightly looking into finding a way to recoup the money which has been spent saving our financial institutions. financial transaction taxes, in their many different forms, are just one of many ideas on the table and we must not limit the tools available to the eu and its member states to looking at one idea. we must be creative and look as widely as possible to see where we can best respond to the financial crisis and strengthening our national financial systems. president obama’s concept of a levy on financial institutions could bear some merit. yet this proposal is very specific and does not look at considering all other forms of financial taxes or levies. as the commissioner has said, the imf, under the instruction of the g20, is currently doing a study into possible financial taxes, yet this resolution appears to seek answers ahead of this study. i do not understand the logic of trying to implement an eu solution to a global problem. it is nonsensical and naive to think that if the eu were to implement a transaction tax without the support of all key global players that we would not lose out to other countries. my concerns are twofold with this financial transaction tax resolution as it stands. firstly, we cannot support a measure which seeks to give tax-raising powers to the eu. it is fundamental to the sovereignty of our eu member states that they retain the right to control their own tax systems. it would be useful, therefore, to clarify whether this proposal is for coordinated tax-raising by individual member states – to be retained and used at that level – or whether it really is an eu tax. secondly, the taxes raised to stabilise financial systems should not, in my opinion, become an extension of an eu budget line. there are many eu- and member state-led initiatives and spending programmes looking to tackle the global climate in smart ways. we have ambitious targets of money to be spent in developing countries. i would not be able to support something that actually raises taxes for other purposes.
mr president, there are obviously many good reasons to ask financial institutions to contribute more to tax revenues post financial crisis, and it is a shame that this resolution only looks at transaction taxes and not at examples like the obama levy. on transaction taxes, i have three areas of concern. firstly, the impact on end-users of financial services. in the uk the stamp duty that has existed for many years has had a disproportionate impact on smaller investors and companies seeking capital. secondly, the impact of the eu going it alone. we know financial markets are global and very fluid. there is obviously a risk that we just push transactions outside the eu, which would not be beneficial. my third concern is regarding moral hazard: if this money is to be put into a bail-out fund. i do not believe that every failing financial institution should automatically be bailed out by taxpayers. it must be possible to allow a bank to fail whilst still protecting customers. experts have warned both the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis that such a fund could encourage irresponsible risk taking. we do not want to risk more risk, and this should be investigated.
mr president, in the uk at the moment a campaign called the robin hood campaign has been launched involving ngos, churches and civil society, and fronted by the actor bill nighy. commissioner, if you have not looked at their website i would highly recommend it to you as part of this debate. the basis of the campaign is a financial transaction tax at 0.05%, which they believe would raise something in the region of gbp 37 billion. so the financial transaction tax is not about people going to a cashpoint and withdrawing money: this is about non-public transactions and it is about those who have contributed to the financial crisis giving something back. if i put that into perspective, i listened to john kay the economist about three weeks ago; he came to scotland to speak, and if scotland had been an independent country and our banks had collapsed, each man, woman and child in scotland would have been liable for gbp 750 000. now we cannot allow that to happen in the future. it has not happened at the moment, thank goodness, because we in scotland are part of the united kingdom, but in the future we must look seriously at the financial transaction tax and look at how it would be applied. the robin hood campaign is an interesting one and i think there should be an 80:20 split within it; 80% going to public services, 20% to making sure we have a fund to ensure that the banking crisis does not happen again. thank you, commissioner, and i look forward to your proposal. maybe you could give us a time-scale on when we will hear what your opinion is. i know that the eu 2020 will come forward in april, but it would be good to hear your time-scale.
author. − mr president, my predecessor as chair of the economic and monetary affairs committee brought a resolution on sepa to this chamber on 12 march 2009. not much has changed and now i bring mine here in march 2010. can i say that we really do expect progress before the ides of march 2011. the commission has made an effort in its sepa road map of september 2009. we agree with the actions in the six priority areas, but a large majority of the respondents of the commission’s own consultation said that it was necessary to fix an end date in order to incentivise the reluctant. those are the commission’s own words. now, you cannot put it any straighter than that, and we suggest that the binding end-date be fixed for no later than 31 december 2012. we live in times when there are increasing numbers of cross-border purchases and contracts. having common standards for these cross-border payments, credit transfers and direct debits is an important part of the health and growth of the single market. it is much better for consumers when they do not have to check whether there are different arrangements from country to country or get caught out because there are. so consumers are not unfavourable to this project, but they do have to have security, and it is a worry if there are not sufficient safeguards for the management and checking of the mandate of direct debits. payment systems take up one third of the operating costs of banks so there is a lot in it for banks to get sepa right, but they cannot have it all their own way. the european payments council must recognise that consumers are worried about frauds and confidence tricks, and who is looking out for them. some busy people may not notice a new transaction, especially if the amount is a common one. therefore there must be possibilities for the consumer to have extra safeguards around the setting-up of direct debits. it is no good to say that banks will pick up all the frauds. banks have not picked up fraudulent cheque practices. for example, in france, there have been problems with back-of-cheque endorsement frauds on cheques made out to a bank being paid into a third-party account. this has happened four years after the uk financial services authority closed that loophole. it is not satisfactory to solve these problems with add-ons or additional offers of services which do not protect everyone. that is the fraudster’s charter. it is not satisfactory to be done country by country. that is the cross-border fraudster’s charter. so, commissioner, we look to you to be firm, fix these problems and come forward with solutions for sepa direct debits by 30 september 2010. this year should see a significant increase in the use of sepa by public authorities, so the moment is right to press forward, especially asking member states that have not made plans to participate in the surveys. we also ask that those – or maybe it is that – member state that has not solved the problem of continuing legal validity of existing direct debit mandates to get on with it and solve the problem. perhaps the other main stumbling block is the multilateral interchange fee for card payments and, again, this needs resolving in a way that is also in accord with competition policy. these are important issues and, commissioner, we say that the moment has come to be firm and set an end-date so that we can successfully migrate to sepa and make this project – which is very important for the single market – truly take off.
(asking a blue-card question under rule 149(8)) mr president, does ms castex accept that the proposition that she put forward that the proposal should be delayed for an impact assessment is in fact tantamount to saying ‘no’?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the proposal exempting micro-entities from certain accounting requirements seems to be far from perfect and in the econ committee my group voted to support the econ rapporteur, mr sterckx, in asking the commission to go further to help all micro-entities and smes across the eu to materially reduce their burden, by rejecting this proposal and bringing forward a much-needed review of the entire fourth and seventh company law directives in order to have a more meaningful proposal with more scope. the commission’s impact assessment and its claims of how much good this proposal will do is also of concern. it seems that it has very limited reach. however, in this time of economic hardship, it is important to remember that every little bit helps. i am hopeful that, if we support this measure, at least one small business in my constituency in wales will find some benefit from this exemption. it will not be a silver bullet solving all the problems caused by the recession, and we should not hold this tiny measure up as a huge achievement on our part. however, if this exemption can help even a few businesses better weather these difficult economic times, then we should not stand in its way.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in the uk there are now 2 460 000 unemployed. youth unemployment is 20% in the uk. in france youth unemployment is 24%. it is 25% in italy and an incredible 39% in spain. big companies have been firing people for the last two years and they will continue to do so. the best hope for the unemployed is with small and micro enterprises. however, eu directives make it difficult for micro enterprises to operate successfully. eu regulations stifle their growth and, for once, the commission is doing something sensible with its proposal to exempt micro enterprises from some accounting regulations. in the uk we have over 1.7 million micro-firms. if these firms were able to hire just one additional person, the uk’s severe unemployment problem would in large part be solved. we have all received the circular from mr sterckx and his friends. mr sterckx and his friends oppose this partly on the basis that exempting very small firms from the full blast of eu accounting directives somehow runs counter to the single market. this is a completely ludicrous argument which only a belgian member of the alde group could possibly have come up with. i know that in this parliament if you criticise belgium or the belgians you get fined, but i would remind you of a bit of history. ninety-six years ago britain entered the first world war in order to protect the territorial integrity of belgium. i would suggest that mr sterckx partly repay that obligation by ceasing to attempt to destroy britain’s economy and britain as a nation state. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
mr president, i will just answer in one word: yes. small businesses need to have administrative simplification now.
mr president, as chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, it gives me great pleasure first of all to say how much we all appreciate the fact that commissioner barnier and commissioner dalli are both here today, as a number of my colleagues have observed, and secondly also to remark that i think this is a remarkable occasion for parliament. we have one committee that has put together three own-initiative reports focusing on monitoring and implementation of key legislative instruments and, as you, commissioner barnier, have said, part of your success will be judged not just in the number of legislative proposals you bring forward but how well they are working. i think this is a really significant development that all committees in this parliament need to engage with. i want particularly to thank all the coordinators on the committee who have worked with me to move forward in the work that we are doing and also to engage national parliaments, to have forums of national parliaments. i very much hope, as both commissioners indicated, that we would have a wider internal market forum, but we would like to have your reports brought together so this can become an annual event in parliament for this really important subject. i think it is significant – if we look at the eu 2020 proposal – that the completion of the single market is now relegated to a paragraph that says missing links and completing networks. well i hope all my colleagues agree this is absolutely not acceptable. the eu 2020 initiative is calling on member states to contribute and we have heard from the rapporteurs (whom i thank greatly for their reports) about the fact that member states need to contribute to the completing of the single market. this must be a flagship initiative and not relegated in the way that it is in the eu 2020 initiative, and i hope that both of you will help us to make sure that that happens over the next few weeks.
mr president, the first note of dissension this morning: these reports wholeheartedly support the implementation of eu laws on consumer protection in member states and the monitoring of the integration process of markets, which will be reported on in an annual report. one of the main recommendations is the establishing of a consumer markets scoreboard concerning topics such as complaints, prices, satisfaction, switching and safety, plus a whole host of additional long-term indicators. the commission intends to carry out in-depth analysis of all so-called problematic sectors identified in the consumer markets scoreboard. this bureaucratic web of interconnecting enforcements and self-perpetuating regulation will do for the small-business retail trade in britain what the common fisheries policy has done for the british fishing industry: it will kill it. yet again the small-business entrepreneur is being targeted and disadvantaged by bureaucratic interference and overregulation. however well-intentioned these proposals are – and i am sure they are – yet again, this is an eu solution desperately looking for a problem.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioners and rapporteurs. i was the shadow on solvit, and that is what i would like to concentrate on, on behalf of my group, the socialist group. solvit is a great concept and i think commissioner dalli summed it up by saying it is all about people. it is citizen-centred, and it tries to help those who come up against barriers and problems created by the eu and to solve the problem in 10 weeks. i know that some people would shirk from the idea that ‘i am from the government and i am here to help’, but solvit is in essence a network across 27 member states which is there to do exactly that: help. i would like to put on record and pay tribute to all those who work in member state solvit centres. just last year i met with the small-staffed team who run the solvit centre in the united kingdom. the way the solvit centre works in the uk is a model of best practice because it tries and uses a solvit+ model, going further in helping businesses and individuals who contact them with a problem. the team are integrated into the european regulatory division within the department for business and industry. one of my many amendments sought to make sure that centres are suitably staffed across the eu with no exceptions. commissioner barnier, in december i raised the issue of solvit in the chamber when you were present and mentioned that in the autumn in committee we were told that in your own member state the person running the solvit centre was an intern. members of the committee were horrified. can i ask, as i did in december, whether that situation has changed? if you are not able to provide the house with that information, can i ask you to clarify it? it is important that solvit centres are well staffed. the internal market is at the centre of what binds us. it is important that our legislation is clearer and easier for member states to interpret so that the internal market can operate in the smoothest fashion and consumers can reap the benefits of the best price and the highest quality. in conclusion, why is there not a solvit day in the european parliament? why do we not have a poster in all our constituency office windows advertising solvit? what can we do to inform all national politicians and their political offices of the benefits of solvit? i hope we will continue to support solvit and help the people we are here to represent.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the report proposes that member states may issue long-stay visas for up to 12 months for third-country nationals which will be recognised by other states within the schengen group. britain is not a member of the schengen group, so would not appear to be directly affected. however, the proposals would make it easier for the citizens of non-eu countries who enter one member state to travel to other eu states. britain has a massive problem with illegal immigration. there are at least one million illegal immigrants in britain. under these proposals, people who wish to migrate to britain illegally may come to another eu state perfectly legally, obtain a long-stay visa that gets them to france, for example, from where they may gain illegal entry into britain. the uk independence party meps will therefore vote against this report in the interests of protecting our borders against further illegal immigration.
mr president, this proposal is based on the assumption that all persons from third countries entering the eu are persons of good faith and that, if they say they are coming here to study, they really are. the eu is rich in bogus colleges, and even genuine colleges frequently have students on their books who never appear in a lecture room. if their movement to other states is facilitated, it will be much more difficult to check the genuineness of their status and more difficult to locate them when their status is found not to be true. although the uk is not in the schengen area, the eu has a track record of regularising illegal immigrants. today’s holder of a long-stay visa or a residence permit might be tomorrow’s illegal migrant, and the day after an eu citizen with complete freedom of movement.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
the absence of the council is noted and is unfortunate.
madam president, i voted against the proposal, mainly because i come from the united kingdom. i think we have good laws in place to deal with this already and we do not want the threat of rabies hitting our island. i am also rather perplexed as to why this proposal only refers to dogs, cats and ferrets, and i would also make the observation that a certain screaming lord sutch proposed this 25 years ago and he must be looking down very pleased today. but then, many of my electors in the west midlands of the united kingdom will think that many of the policies coming from this house are monster raving loony policies.
madam president, it is a pleasure to see you back in the chair. we occasionally get these messages coming out of the commission that the eu is doing enough. it should do less, but do it better, concentrate on the really big things. and then we have all these motions on things like what pets we are allowed to take where. i think there is an issue of proportionality here is there not? countries have different national conditions. our country is an island without land borders and we are perfectly capable of reaching sensible proportionate bilateral or multilateral agreements with each other. do we really think that we would be better off creating a new administrative bureaucracy in the hands of the same geniuses who brought us the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy, the unaudited budgets and all of the rest of the apparatus of acquired eu law? surely this is something that could be left to the member states.
in writing. − whilst we are opposed to eu membership and therefore eu funding, the money in this fund has already been allocated and is not therefore ‘new’ money. we would prefer help for redundant workers to be funded by national governments. however, for as long as the eu is the competent authority, help for redundant workers must, apparently, come from this fund. there will be critics in the uk of this money being paid to german and lithuanian workers. however, if it were to be proposed to provide funds for (say) our steelworkers from corus, we could not oppose such a contribution. therefore, we cannot logically oppose these contributions.
in writing. − i voted no to this report and in doing so was mindful of a good news story in respect of our marine environment. the rapporteur mentions the ‘plastic soup’, the drifting mass of plastic and rubber in the pacific ocean, and notes what is described as an increasing problem in the atlantic ocean of lost fishing nets. in this respect, it is worth mentioning the work of kimo international and their ‘fishing for litter’ project. originally started in march 2000 by the dutch government and dutch fishermen, the project was aimed at clearing the north sea of litter, using fishing nets. kimo international has since expanded this project to harbours in the uk, sweden and denmark, with eu financial assistance. since 2001 eu fishermen have removed hundreds of tonnes of rubbish from our seas and returned it to land where it is collected and disposed of responsibly. all of the eu fishermen involved in this project need to be applauded for their dedication, which removes waste permanently from the sea, benefiting the fishing industry, wildlife and the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the hedh report. scotland currently lacks a voice in eu consumer matters: we have no independent representation in the council and consumer legislation is largely reserved to london. given our separate legal institutions it is essential that these powers are returned to the scottish parliament so that scotland can play a full role in the ongoing eu debate on these matters.
in writing. − i welcome this contribution to the consumer scoreboard from parliament. the consumer scoreboard is an important indicator of how effective and efficient member states are at implementing legislation from the eu. i welcome the rapporteur’s calls for greater transparency and visibility of the surveillance measures and support her call for improved collective redress mechanisms in the eu.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report. i feel it is important to protect consumers and to put a greater focus on stregthening market surveillance, so that products destined for citizens meet the highest standards possible. i welcome the move to step up international cooperation on safety products and to pursue formal agreements with enforcement authorities in third countries. i support calls to set up a special consumer ombudsman for the extra-judicial settlement of disputes and believe that more effective cross-border cooperation mechanisms will help to improve protection for consumers across the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mrs de brún's report. the freedom of movement which lies at the heart of the single market means that this is an issue of importance to a great many citizens across europe. public and animal health matters are also of vital importance and i consider that the rapporteur has done a good job in striking a balance.
in writing. − i abstained on the coelho report as it deals with aspects of schengen which are not applicable in scotland.
in writing. − the internal market scoreboard provides a useful overview of the application of community rules in areas of vital importance to european consumers and businesses. unfortunately scotland does not as yet feature as an independent country on the scoreboard. i consider it essential that the scottish parliament gains full powers in those areas currently reserved to london; when that happens i am confident that scotland will feature amongst the member states implementing measures for the benefit of consumers and businesses.
the treaty respects the rights of local authorities and regions across europe, and this will be an important factor when you start discussions on the future of cohesion policy, for example. i wonder if you could assure us that when you start those discussions – for example on the fifth cohesion report – that you will have those discussions with local authorities and regions on the future of cohesion policy – and, of course, with this parliament.
i would like to raise a case about fundamental rights. i recently visited cairneyhill primary school near dunfermline in scotland and i was approached by a boy called douglas, who wanted to raise the case of an eritrean girl called rima andmariam. this relates to what the first speaker was saying about eritrea. rima’s family was persecuted and murdered in eritrea for being christian. the persecution of christians in eritrea is a subject i know you are familiar with. rima managed to escape to italy and then to glasgow in scotland where alison and robert swinfin took her in and cared for her and looked after her as their own daughter. rima is now 17. she is facing deportation back to italy where she first sought asylum and we are doing all that we can to raise rima’s case to appeal to all those that can help her. she needs to remain in the loving care of alison and robert. her case is being raised by civil society, human rights organisations and churches across scotland. it was even mentioned on ‘thought for the day’ on radio scotland yesterday. what can the commission do to protect rima’s fundamental rights?
president barroso, many countries around the world have finely worded bills of rights in their constitutions. rather fewer afford genuine protection to their citizens. do you agree that what matters is not the structure of protection of rights but rather how that protection is practiced? in the united kingdom we face a general election within three months. if elected, the conservative party will repeal the human rights act and replace it with our own bill of rights. this would mean that the european convention on human rights would no longer be directly applicable in uk domestic law. (interjection from the floor: ‘you can’t do that!’) president barroso, will you explain to what extent plans for the eu to sign the european convention on human rights will take into account the differing positions of the member states? my party will also seek a treaty change to guarantee that the charter of fundamental rights does not affect the uk. how will you ensure that the eu does not interfere with the uk’s right to opt out of those structures we do not wish to participate in?
president barroso, the question i would like to raise today concerns the financial situation in greece. article 121 of the lisbon treaty is, for the first time, being used to push through structural reforms in that country. the good people of greece now find themselves stuck between a rock and a hard place as it becomes very clear that you are running the show in that country and not their elected government. does this mean, as you have sent in your officials to sort out the greek financial situation, that you can now be addressed not only as president of the commission but also as the governor of greece? if the measures your officials put in greece do not work, do you have a plan b? if so, is it for greece to leave the eurozone? finally, do you intend to send your officials into other countries suffering financial hardship, for example portugal, spain and italy?
during the last decade, international cooperation on counterterrorism has been made more difficult because of human rights concerns, including in the practices of the us administration. we had hoped to put that behind us with the obama administration. sadly we learn that unfair military commissions and indefinite detention without trial will carry on, even if guantánamo is closed. these departures from international and domestic legal norms make transatlantic data sharing projects even more problematic than they would otherwise be. what representations is the commission making to the us administration in order to uphold fair trials, and warning that their absence will prejudice cooperation? i hope that nowadays, unlike in the past, there is no danger of the eu or its member states colluding with gross breaches of fundamental rights in counterterrorism.
member of the commission. − madam president, this is the first time i have spoken before this house. i am glad that, less than four weeks after i took office, i can today present to you a communication on international climate change policy post copenhagen – a communication that the commission adopted in its meeting today. the communication is entitled ‘acting now to reinvigorate global action and climate change’, and that is exactly what we aim to do. naturally, in drafting the communication, we have taken full account of parliament’s resolution of 10 february on the outcome of cop 15. copenhagen was a much smaller step forward than the european union had wanted but, nonetheless, it was a step forward. one hundred and nine countries – industrialised and developing nations alike which are collectively responsible for more than 80% of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions – have now officially included their emission reduction targets and actions in the accord. in other words, the opportunity is there for us to build on this determination and help channel it into international action. we need to seize this chance to help maintain momentum towards the robust and legally binding global climate agreement for the post-2012 period, which of course remains our objective. the commission’s starting point is that the eu must continue to show leadership. we believe that the most convincing way europe can do so is by taking tangible and determined action domestically to become the most climate-friendly region in the world. we must do this as part of the europe 2020 strategy put forward last week. and let me say this loud and clear: it is in europe’s own interest. how is that? well, because it will – if we do it intelligently – enhance our competitiveness, strengthen our energy security and stimulate greener economic growth and innovation, thus creating new jobs. the commission will therefore now undertake work to outline a pathway up to 2050 for the european union’s transition to becoming a low-carbon economy. this will involve reducing our emissions by 80% to 95% in 2050, as already agreed, and – as this house is well aware – the eu is committed to reducing its emissions to at least 20% below 1990 levels by 2020 and to scaling up this reduction to 30% if the conditions are right. i fully share the wish expressed by this parliament that the eu should move beyond the 20% target. we need to bring our reduction more closely into line with what the science tells us is necessary in order to meet the copenhagen accord’s objective of keeping global warming below two degrees. as you also stated in your resolution, the crisis has made it easier to achieve the targets. if today we want to be as ambitious as we were prepared to be when we adopted the climate and energy package back in 2007 and 2008, we would then have to go beyond the 20%. i am therefore also pleased to announce that the commission will prepare, before the european council in june, an analysis of which practical policies would be required to implement a 30% emission reduction by 2020. the commission will also engage in developing an analysis of milestones on our pathway to 2050, including the necessary scenarios of the ambition level for 2030. this will require a need to set out appropriate strategies for the key emitting sectors, consistent with the eu 2020 strategy. in line with the deadline agreed in the ets directive, the commission will also set out its analysis of the situation regarding energy intensive industries in the event of carbon leakage. in parallel with this work, the eu must start implementing the copenhagen accord. this means building a robust and transparent international accounting framework for countries’ emissions and performance. it also means swiftly mobilising the eur 7.2 billion in fast-start finance for developing countries that europe has committed to for the period 2010 to 2012. this is particularly important for our credibility, as well as contributing to securing long-term finance. the commission is ready to help ensure the eu’s assistance is well coordinated. finally, this communication proposes a road map for the next steps in the un process, to be agreed in bonn this spring when the negotiations restart. the technical meetings in bonn need to begin the process of integrating the political guidance provided by the copenhagen accord into the un negotiating text and addressing the outstanding gaps. most importantly, i think it is very important to see what can be specific deliverables for cancún. bringing the developed country targets and developing country actions submitted under the accord, as well as the political guidance on mrv, into the formal un negotiation process will be crucial, but also decisions on issues which were neglected in the accord, such as the evolution of the international carbon market, reducing emissions from international aviation and maritime through icao and eimo, agriculture and other things. in the formal negotiations there was actually substantial progress made in copenhagen on the adaptation framework, technology framework, forestry, that could also be among the specific deliverables for mexico. nobody would be happier than me if cancún also delivered a legally binding global deal and if the legal question was also solved there – and do not be mistaken, the european union is ready. however, we need to recognise that remaining differences between parties may delay agreement on this until next year. therefore we have to manage expectations carefully. i think all of you know that high expectations for mexico without specific deliverables implies a very high risk of killing this process in the end. so for all of us to whom it is very important to get an international deal, i also think it is very important to pursue this stepwise approach and to try to do whatever we can to ensure that the world gets a legally binding deal before 2012. finally, a few words on environmental integrity. environmental integrity must be our watchwords in the negotiations and i know this is a concern parliament shares. therefore the shortcomings of the kyoto protocol have to be addressed. by this i mean the limited number of countries it covers – corresponding to only 30% of today’s emissions – and the serious weaknesses it contains such as the accounting rules for forestry emissions and the handling of surplus national emission rights from the period 2008 to 2012, which were also highlighted in your february resolution. lastly, europe needs to undertake outreach in order to promote support for the un process and rebuild confidence that a global deal is possible. we need both to get a better understanding of where our partners stand on key issues and to explain what the eu requires from a global deal. the commission will undertake outreach in close contact with the council and the council presidency. i will be holding talks in washington and mexico this month and plan to visit, among others, india, the maldives, china and japan in april. we would also like to encourage you, the european parliament, to contribute by engaging with your fellow parliamentarians around the world. i have already met some representatives of your parliamentary delegations with major third countries and will meet others soon in order to discuss how we could join our efforts and reach out together and how the commission can assist you in this important task. the commission’s communication sets out a strategy to help maintain the momentum of global efforts to tackle climate change expressed by the growing support for the copenhagen accord. eu leadership in this process will be absolutely vital for success. i hope we can count on parliament’s support.
madam president, in the wake of copenhagen, some of us are feeling like the remnants of a defeated army, scattered and demoralised, so i am glad you have raised the standard here and launched a fight-back. but, although you sound upbeat and positive, in practice a lot of this is based on a wish and a prayer. we are very much dependent upon others to be able to make progress. i notice that you have talked about revisiting the idea of raising our own target to a 30% reduction. am i right in saying that you have suggested a new and more subjective formula for applying that? ‘if the conditions are right’, the document says. that is new, i think. why is there nothing in the document that analyses the reasons for failure at copenhagen and suggests lessons? why is there nothing here that points at the problem of climate-change denial, which is sapping political will? and, finally, why is there nothing here about the need to bring in more business? there are lots of businesses in europe that want to work with us on this and, frankly, while i wish you well, and while we wish you well, you need all the friends that you can get.
member of the commission. − madam president, first to mr seeber, about the ipcc and why did we not criticise that or whatever we were supposed to do in this paper: i must say that, although i think it is crucial for the ipcc to take the criticism seriously and try to correct where there are things that need correction, i have seen nothing to date that changes my profound understanding and feeling that, yes, we need to address climate change. there are things, details, leaked mails and all these kinds of things. i have seen nothing more profound that would change my profound attitude and i think that goes for very many, so that is very much deliberate. i think that the ipcc itself must try to be careful now to restore confidence in whatever comes out of the ipcc. i very much agree with the point that you almost did not have time to raise – the issue of trust – and that is also why we have a substantial outreach, a thing that is crucial for the european union. mrs ulvskog, you mentioned that i spoke more about 2050 than 2010. this is a strategy on the way forward for 2012. we already have our policy for right now, 2010, in the european union, so this is a strategy looking forward. where i think that one of the new things to pay attention to is that we start to say we must define the pathways between 2020 and 2050, and that is why i will come up with something on what should be achieved by 2030. the year 2020 is only 10 years away. in this commission period we must also lay the path for where we are going to be by 2030, so that was very deliberate and that is one of the new things in this. i definitely do not want to lower expectations but i would be very careful not to raise expectations so high so that those who do not want the international negotiations to succeed could kill the process after mexico, if we do not achieve anything. that is why we must be practical. i will defend before anyone that up to copenhagen it was right to keep expectations high, to keep the pressure there and to bring this to the top of the agenda of heads of state. it made them responsible; it made emerging economies and the united states set domestic targets; it was important. but only once can you do a thing like this and then not achieve it fully. my fear is we cannot do it twice. why not, then, make a specific road map in bonn, guaranteeing momentum is being kept here? that is the thinking. finally, to chris davies, yes you are right. we are depending on others to make progress, and that is also why we must do the average and try to analyse the information we get. what is going on in beijing? what is going on in delhi? what is going on in washington? what is going on in the us congress? and then try to see that, by taking all of these things into consideration, we can, at the same time, ensure that we still have our objective met, namely a legally binding, truly international deal. you mentioned this 30%, if the conditions are right – yes, you are right, this is a new way of putting it. there are footnotes also in the 2020 strategy referring to policies hitherto, that it is provided that other nations... and so on and so forth, but i think if conditions are right and maybe if we do this intelligently it could also benefit europe itself. we also need to have that in our different strategies and papers. i know that this is one area where there is not consensus in europe at this stage. i think it is important to consider this. say that, for instance, china will not accept an international agreement, would we then stand still for ever on 20%? how would that benefit our economy, our innovation, our growth? would we not risk losing the markets to china and other regions that are moving on this agenda as well, no matter whether and when we get an international deal? this is just an opening for discussion, saying, yes, these are bargaining chips in the international negotiations, but we should not forget there is also a domestic side to this. where will our growth come from in the future? there we should be careful of not being ambitious enough.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her statement and welcome her to our chamber. she talked in her statement about raising our target to 30% if the conditions are right. what evidence does she have that, if we do so, this will help persuade america, india, china, or other countries to sign up to a globally binding agreement? in the absence of a globally binding agreement, does she not agree that there is a great risk that we make our industry more uncompetitive, and saddle our consumers with ever higher electricity bills, at no net benefit to the environment at all because those reductions in emissions are of course cancelled out by increases in india, china, the us, etc.?
a uachtaráin, is gá don ae laghdú astuithe de 40% faoin mbliain 2020 a ghealladh, de réir na heolaíochta is déanaí. ní féidir a leithéid de ghealltanas a dhéanamh ag brath ar ghníomhartha dhaoine eile. cad iad na céimeanna a ghlacfaidh an coimisiún lena chinntiú go n-ardófar gealltanas de laghdú astuithe an ae chuig 40%? ó thaobh an mhaoinithe riachtanaigh atá ann do thíortha atá i mbéal forbartha chun dul i ngleic leis an athrú aeráide agus a iarmhairtí, cé go díreach a sholáthróidh an maoiniú seo do na tíortha i mbéal forbartha? cé mhéid a thabharfaidh gach tír forbartha? cad é mar agus cá huair a chuirfear ar fáil é? labhair an coimisinéir, fosta, faoi chomhaontú atá uaillmhianach agus ina cheangal dlí. cad iad na céimeanna a ghlacfaidh an coimisiún le comhaontú a fháil a aithníonn na freagrachtaí coiteanna ach idirdhealaithecha ar thíortha tionsclaíocha agus ar thíortha i mbéal forbartha, bunaithe ar an ionchur stairiúil de gháis cheaptha teasa san atmaisféar agus ar na hacmhainní le déileáil leis na dúshláin chun astuithe a laghdú agus le hiarmhairtí an athraithe aeráide?
member of the commission. − madam president, if i understand the last point correctly, it is about how can we enforce whatever we agree upon. that is, of course, a key issue. the other question was how much should be given to developing countries, as i understood it. the criteria have not been set up yet, but i think it is very important that we do not attach a lot of conditions to that. this was the promise given in copenhagen, that the fast-start financing, the here-and-now financing, will be given to the least developed countries and the most vulnerable, partly for adaptation, partly for mitigation. i also think that it is only logical that we defend the fact that it must happen through existing channels. we cannot afford, time-wise, to invent new governing systems or channels or whatever for this money to get out to work, because we should get it out there working as soon as possible. i would say that the eu is already ready for bonn to deliver the fast-start financing and i would say that, at the latest in mexico, the world must be ready to deliver on its promises on fast-start financing from copenhagen and to set up the different criteria and exactly how we are going to do it. to mrs hassi, it was the point of view of the need to stick to 30% and in many respects it relates also to what mr callanan says. it is not very easy to decide exactly when we should go to 30% and exactly what it would take to go to 30%. that is why in this communication we say that, before the june european council, we will provide an analysis on exactly how we could intelligently go to 30%. what would it require? of course, nobody should be naive. of course we should take care of our own industry, obviously. we should know what we are doing and we should not be naive. my point is simply that i think that, if we do this in an intelligent and coherent manner, it would be possible to choose tools that could at the same time benefit climate change and emissions reductions, energy efficiency, energy security, and innovation and job creation. that is what we will be looking for. i am not saying it is going to be easy. we should not think going to 30% will be a piece of cake, although we must know what the potential would be, what the implications would be and that would be the analysis that i would provide before the european council meeting this june. then, later this year, we would have the analysis on the pathways to 2050, including this 2030 perspective that i think we have to start thinking about, the reason of course being that we have pledged to reduce by 80% to 95% by 2050. if we do not get started, it is going to be extremely tough in the last one or two decades as we approach 2050.
madam president, contrary to the belief of the commission, the debate regarding man-made climate change is far from over. in the past month alone we have had the scandal of the university of east anglia; then we have had the debacle over the himalayan glaciers and now, we have got questions over the effect climate change will have on wildlife in the amazon. research has shown that at least 20 passages in the ipcc’s report cite non-peer-reviewed world wildlife fund or greenpeace reports as authority. this is not science. we need solid, peer-reviewed scientific evidence, not the work of pressure groups using climate change to further their own agendas or politicians who use climate change to justify the existence of the european union. i would like to ask whether it is now time to pause, to take stock and consider the ramifications of bounding ahead with policies that could damage economies, result in job losses or potentially result in energy chaos.
you will be aware that the leaked emails from the university of east anglia reveal that historical changes in temperature have been manipulated by supporters of the man-made climate change hypothesis by subjectively choosing base years. that trick has been used to disguise recent falls in temperature and to contain the problem of the medieval warm period. the emails also reveal that scientists sceptical of the hypothesis have been squeezed out of peer review processes to avoid flaws in research being revealed to public scrutiny. can a hypothesis that depends on manipulation of data be a proper basis for justifying enormous expenditure and the closing-down of factories such as the corus plant in middlesbrough? the european union pays enormous subsidies to environmental pressure groups that agree to advise the eu to follow a policy to which it is already committed. is it appropriate for the european union to use public funds to subsidise pressure groups? this wastes public money, gives bogus support for european union policies and compromises the independence of campaigning organisations.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as the previous speaker said and as the commissioner said, this is a deeply complex problem, so the oral question that we pose today is a bid from our group, certainly, and i am sure from all the groups, to renew and refresh the debate on the roma issue. roma communities in europe continue to face unacceptable levels of prejudice, and in many cases violence. however, as we see from the decade of roma inclusion initiative, there is a genuine feeling in this house that we want to see a comprehensive approach. however, we have talked about this comprehensive approach before. there is a need in this house to reassess what we have done from the issue of micro-credits to tackling racial violence, and for all of these complex issues we must have a comprehensive strategy. there is a growing amount of evidence that the situation on the ground is not improving enough. the open society institute talks about prejudice and violence faced by roma communities across europe not decreasing. additionally, the fundamental rights agency’s discrimination survey found that the roma were discriminated against more than any other group surveyed. we owe it to this house to see that the existing legislation – the race equality directive, the council framework on tackling violence – is actually implemented, and we owe it to our comprehensive strategy, as has been said earlier, that we look at this as a complex problem but a problem that requires action, an integrated approach, a comprehensive approach. so let this oral question be a bid to refresh this debate and come up with new solutions and implement those laws which already exist which should be helping roma communities.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to echo the calls that have been made for a comprehensive strategy here. as has been pointed out, we are now in the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, which we know is difficult in times of recession, and that is why we have been asking for social conditionality on rescue packages so that those who are the most excluded do not find themselves falling even further behind. we have heard already that the gap is widening, which is why our eu 2020 strategy also needs to take into account the need to reduce the gaps between rich and poor. the changes in the regional development funds are important. local authorities, we would agree with the council, are important because that is so often where discrimination is most closely felt, on housing and the specific needs of the roma people there, on education, and on the police whose job it is to protect and not simply to criminalise, as seems to be the way in some member states. and we want to see high-quality public services. council will remember its recommendation on the active inclusion of those furthest from the labour market where high-quality public services are seen as crucial. we are interested to know whether council and commission are happy with the absorption rate being shown for funds at the moment. i would also welcome the context change that was strongly put out by the commission in terms of anti-racism and xenophobia, and would hope that every member state government would commit itself to those ideals.
thank you. the technical services will take note of that. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0017/2010). this will be a little shorter this evening than it should be because the preceding debate overran by 25 minutes because of earlier delays. i am sorry about that. we will finish some time after 19.30. i intend to be very crisp on time. speakers from the floor have 30 seconds. the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question 29 by seán kelly (h-0068/10) subject: flood insurance systems in the eurecent flooding in ireland has caused approximately €500 million worth of damage to both private and public infrastructure. the irish government has made an application to the eu solidarity fund to cover a proportion of the damage to public infrastructure. however, there is often no redress for private households and undertakings due to the prohibitive cost of private flood insurance. it is worth noting that one of the causal factors of the unprecedented flooding was the uncoordinated planning of development, including in some cases on flood plains, and that some insurers are refusing to insure particular households and undertakings. in the light of this, could the commission outline any plans it has, if any, to draft legislative proposals to harmonise flood insurance provision in the eu, taking into account the market failure to provide adequate cover in some member states? failing that, could the commission comment on any programmes it has developed to exchange best practice in this area between member states?
question 30 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0109/10) subject: european action to combat poverty according to eurostat, around 85 million european citizens, 20% of children and 19% of european citizens over 65 were at risk of poverty in 2008. at eu level, 8% of the active population and 44% of unemployed people had an income below the poverty threshold, and having a job is not sufficient to guarantee a decent standard of living. social protection measures in the member states have cut the risk of poverty facing the eu population by 32%. the economic crisis has led to a rise in the unemployment rate to around 10% and widening social gaps. can the commission say what measures it plans to take to create and preserve jobs in the eu and to guarantee a decent standard of living for all eu citizens through a sound and adequate social protection system?
question 31 by georgios papanikolaou (h-0089/10) subject: evaluation of the culture programme 2007-2013 as part of efforts to promote and highlight european culture, in 2007 the european union adopted the culture programme which will run until 2013. it has a total budget of approximately 400 million euros. the objectives of this programme include raising awareness of those aspects of culture which are of european significance and promoting the transnational mobility of people working in the cultural sector. how does the commission evaluate progress so far in attaining these two objectives? are member states showing an interest and taking part in culture programme, or does the commission consider that it should launch new and more dynamic initiatives to attain its objectives by 2013?
question 32 by liam aylward (h-0090/10) subject: strengthening and funding grassroots sporting organisations in the eu grassroots sporting organisations make a huge contribution to european society, culture and the health of european citizens; in the current economic climate, however, many grassroots sporting organisations are experiencing financial difficulties. what action can the commission take to strengthen grassroots sports and promote their development across the member states? the commission has recently closed its public consultation on funding for grassroots sports. can the commission give further information on the aims of this public consultation and when further information on the outcome of this consultation will be available?
question 33 by jim higgins (h-0072/10) subject: road deaths could the commission please outline how it intends to combat the three main causes of road deaths: speed, drug/drink driving and inadequate road infrastructure?
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question 34 by ivo belet (h-0077/10) subject: railway accident in buizingen and electronic safety system the serious railway accident in buizingen, belgium, on 15 february 2010 is being blamed on the absence of an electronic safety system which automatically applies trains' brakes if they pass a red light. in addition to the national automatic train protection (atp) systems, which have existed for years in some member states, work is proceeding apace on the introduction of ertms (european rail traffic management system) in europe. to what extent and for how long have the various member states been equipping their railway lines and trains with national atp systems? what is the state of play with the introduction of ertms in the various member states (both on trains and on railway lines)? in the case of member states which do not yet have national train protection systems, is it still worthwhile to invest in them, in view of the ongoing introduction of ertms and the major investment involved in a changeover? how is the danger averted that railway infrastructure may be equipped with ertms but the trains may not, or vice versa? does this problem arise at present, for example for intercity railway traffic on the liège-aachen line? what lessons should we perhaps learn here with regard to the liberalisation of the railways in europe? question 35 by frieda brepoels (h-0091/10) subject: causes of the dreadful train crash on monday, 15 february in buizingen can the commission demonstrate whether liberalisation has affected safety? in june 2008, the commission sent belgium a reasoned opinion formally criticising the complex three-part structure of belgian railways. have the requisite measures since been taken in response to the objections raised by the commission? how? since when has the european ertms standard been available? did any delay occur in comparison with the scheduled date of introduction? if so, what were the causes of this delay and what remedial action has the commission taken? did the debate on the european standard prevent the railways from introducing a system of their own to guarantee safety on domestic routes? since when have the specifications for such national systems been available? in how many of the eu-27 countries does a national system already exist, and since when has it done so? which countries score best? what is belgium's position in relation to the eu-27 regarding safety of the railway network?
question 36 by jacek wlosowicz (h-0103/10) subject: daylight saving time do any up-to-date studies support the practice of changing the clocks twice a year, which severely disrupts the daily lives of eu citizens?
question 37 by gay mitchell (h-0071/10) subject: the freedom/security balance in many countries across the european union, the alarmism caused by global terrorism has led to a frightening erosion of civil liberties. a fundamental principle underpinning the social contract is that a government must justify any restriction on the rights of the citizen by clearly and irrefutably demonstrating the necessity of that restriction for the general security of the nation. the burden of proof appears to have been transferred from the authorities implementing the security measure to the people subject to it. does the commission agree with this assessment? how will the commission go about redressing the imbalance between security and freedom?
question 38 by marian harkin (h-0087/10) subject: green paper on volunteering in order to raise awareness of the value of volunteering throughout the eu, would the commission consider, in conjunction with the proposed initiatives to celebrate the european year on volunteering, drawing up a comprehensive green paper on volunteering to facilitate, recognise and add value to volunteering? in addition to drawing up such a green paper, does the commission consider it important to build synergies between other international organisations such as the ilo and the un in relation to the jhu/ilo volunteer measurement project and the un non-profit handbook?
question 39 by bernd posselt (h-0088/10) subject: long-standing minorities what possibilities of developing a strategy to protect and promote ethnic groups and minorities of long standing do the lisbon treaty and the eu fundamental rights charter give the commission, and what practical steps are planned?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.50 and resumed at 21.00.)
author. − mr president, i do not think i will pull my punches here tonight in regard to this particular oral question on the implementation of the first railway package. you will be aware, commissioner, that the three directives that make up the first railway package were adopted in 2001, with a deadline of march 2006 for their transposition into national law. it is my obligation, as chair of the transport committee, to raise this issue with you now by way of this oral question. here we are, nine years later, debating the fact that 21 member states had, by october 2009, failed to enact these directives and have now been sent reasoned opinions because of this failure. it beggars belief that, as we approach the revision of the first railway package, a number of states – including so-called influential states, including states that like to inform us of their pro-european credentials – have failed to enact this significant piece of european legislation. those member states should hang their heads in shame and remember and honour the obligations they gave to this parliament in 2001. it is one of politics’ most bewildering facts that we can deliver throughout the european union the single market in numerous areas, but we cannot deliver it in the railway sector. that is not a failure of this parliament. that is a failure of the member states, often supported by sections of the railway industry and, frankly, parliament’s patience is beginning to run out. this oral question is born out of a frustration, a frustration that the law is being deliberately flouted and that as yet the commission has failed to bring member states to book. we are now demanding to know what aspects in each failing member state of each directive have not been enacted. we need to know why certain member states have not correctly implemented these directives. we want to know which member states are still resisting the concept of fair competition in the railway sector and deliberately protecting their own national companies. we have concerns regarding the powers and independence of regulators and infrastructure managers in some of these member states. we believe the lack of transparency and lack of harmonisation on infrastructure charges is leading to a protectionist practice and is acting as a break on delivering the single market to the railway sector, as well as stifling cross-border activity. if you add to this various national measures such as rolling stock taxes, then you have to question whether certain member states ever intended to implement these directives in the first place. today we need to know many things. we need to know how the commission, via the recast, will facilitate the full implementation of the full railway package. today we need to know what the commission is doing to enforce european law on this issue. today we need to know why it has taken so long for action to be taken against those member states who have failed. we on the transport committee often highlight the need for effective interoperability in the rail sector. without that, and without the opening of national infrastructure, european rail freight is doomed. transborder european passenger trains will be stifled. the single market will never be delivered, and the ertms will never happen. the time has come to develop a true european perspective for our railway network, and the first step for that development is the first railway package. without that first step being taken, then others cannot follow. we need direct action and we need it now. let us name and shame those member states that are failing, and let us take action against them now.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, to the disadvantage of the united kingdom, the uk government has implemented the eu rail package. this is mainly because, these days, the lib-lab-con sit at westminster and like to be told what to do, having given away control to the eu. the separation of train operators and separation of the rail network is leading to major problems, courtesy of the eu. no wonder 21 countries are too wise to get caught in an eu rail web leading to mayhem on all stations to brussels. i am not a socialist, but if you need an integrated transport system, then state ownership is best – and not separation into multiple private hands. having six different companies on the network between birmingham and berlin will create a complete ‘dog’s breakfast’, or should i say a ‘dachshunds frühstück’. when eurorail is broken up to allow the surplus capacity to be run by different companies we will no longer have rolling stock, just laughing stock. brian simpson, who is responsible for this debate, is a member of the labour party. labour was once socialist, and he was elected by people who still think labour is socialist. yet here he is, hiding in the eu, away from his faithful supporters. what is he calling for? he is calling for privatisation. more than that, he is calling for an eu model which does not work and is against the wishes of his own voters. he is in fact the ‘fat controller’, creating fat pay packets for fat cats. the one thing that we can be sure of is that there is fat chance that this eu directive will be accepted, as it will derail the eu rail network.
author. − mr president, i was named by one of the members opposite. mr nattrass made some very personal remarks against me before sneaking out of the chamber without listening to the debate. of course, this is a man who would not know one end of a railway locomotive from the other and whose expertise is restricted to thomas the tank engine. i do appreciate that ukip have no idea with regard to manners and parliamentary procedure; this was evident recently in brussels. however, as a democrat adhering to democratic principles and procedures, i presented this oral question on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism as its chair, which it is my proud duty to do. that is why i delivered it as such, so i really do not think i should be subjected to abuse from the other side of the chamber from that group of rogues. as an aside, i just thought i would mention in passing that, under the labour government in the united kingdom, railway patronage has increased 20% over recent years – even on the route from london to birmingham!
author. − mr president, i think the commissioner can see the strength of feeling across parliament, across all the parliamentary groups, where we are clearly calling, whatever our differences are on different aspects of acta and counterfeit trading and also the intellectual property rights, we are all agreed here on the need for greater transparency. i hope that has come across quite clearly. commissioner, we are all concerned that when you have negotiations where there is not sufficient transparency – we are not aware of the principles and what our negotiating position is in these talks – then what will happen is that you create a vacuum and, when you create a vacuum, we all know that rumours fill that vacuum. we have seen leaks purporting to be official documents. we have no way of knowing whether they are actually official documents or whether they are made up, but it just shows what happens when you do not have enough transparency and you do not share information. i think some of us really also understand the need sometimes for a bit of confidentiality. surely when we are in negotiations we do not want to give away all our negotiating positions; we do not want to give away our chips. but what we are asking for is reasonable transparency. why can we not have access to these documents? why can we not have access to the texts? and if you feel that for reasons of transparency and for negotiations you cannot give us this, then at least give us summary positions and tell us what our basic principles are in these negotiations. so, for example, are we going to support proposals that appear to be on the table, according to what is on the blogosphere, that mp3 players and laptops can be confiscated at borders? will there be criminal sanctions? is the eu position to support this? i think we need to know and i think it shows the strength of feeling across this parliament that we have been able to come together on a broad compromise, even though we may have slight differences and nuances here, to agree on a common text. so, commissioner, it is over to you to demonstrate transparency and demonstrate that you recognise the democratic accountability that we all seek.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for his contribution. commissioner, you said at the end of your contribution that you have heard our concerns and you are responding to them. well, i think, as they say, ‘up to a point’. i am not convinced that you have entirely grasped all our concerns about the acta negotiations. it is true that there is common ground between us in terms of the fact that ipr right holders deserve a fair return on their rights, but counterfeit goods can and do sometimes pose a threat to human health. so, like you, we are not against international cooperation to tackle piracy, to tackle counterfeiting and to deal with other abuses of intellectual property rights. but, we repeat, it has to be based on the existing acquis communautaire. if you are giving us an absolute assurance on that, then i accept it, but you said you were not going to do it through the back door – which it seemed to me still gave you the opportunity to do it through the front door – but if you are saying absolutely no move to the acquis communautaire, then i am pleased to hear that and i accept your word on that. similarly, you said you would not criminalise individuals for downloading from the internet, but then you talked about the external borders of the community and what might happen with people going away rather than coming into the eu, so again we do not want anything in acta which criminalises anyone for individual use. even though we might frown on it, nobody should be criminalised for personal use of copyright material. of course, any action through acta has to be proportional to the aims. it is not a blank cheque for copyright holders. the problem, as other members have said, is that we do not know the situation because of the secrecy surrounding this. i welcome the fact that you have given a strong commitment to get the draft negotiating text and that you will put pressure on the other parties. i think you have to tell the other parties, though, that this will not strengthen you as a negotiator: it will weaken you as a negotiator if you cannot release the draft text, because you will not have – as was very clear tonight – the support of this house if we cannot see the draft text on which you are working. finally, on a positive note, i welcome your comments on generic medicine and i look forward to seeing the review of the customs regulation.
deputising for the author. − mr president, like mr caspary, i welcome the three preference regimes we have under the gsp – everything but arms, gsp and gsp+. it is right that the 49 poorest countries in the world should get open access to our markets for everything but their arms. it is right, as mr caspary has said, that the 176 developing countries should be given preferential access to our market. it is also right that 16 countries should get even better access to our market, through gsp+, in return for setting up and implementing 27 specified international conventions on human rights, co-labour standards, sustainable development and good governance. however, it is also right that we expect those 16 beneficiary countries to apply and respect their commitments under those conventions. if we allow countries to get away with not applying their commitments or respecting the laws under those conventions, then we lose the incentive that gsp+ is supposed to give. that is not all, as we in effect punish the other gsp countries by eroding their preferences and giving preferences to 16 countries not respecting their rights. that is why i welcome the fact that sri lanka has been investigated by the commission, which has also proposed action against sri lanka. that is also why i believe strongly that the commission should launch an investigation into colombia’s respect or otherwise of the 27 conventions. that does not mean that we would take action against colombia. it simply means that we would investigate it, as we did with el salvador but decided that there was no need for action. i have three questions for the commissioner. does the commission accept that, in the future, parliament should be given the right to call for investigations under gsp+? secondly, in the mean time, will the commission present to parliament the requested report on the status of the ratification and implementation of the conventions by the existing gsp+ beneficiaries? finally, when does the commission plan to transmit to parliament the revised regulation for the next phase of gsp? we were promised it by june and we would like to see it delivered by june.
deputising for the author. − mr president, i think we all understand that one of the aims of the gsp system was to integrate the poorer countries into the global trading system. granting preferential treatment was seen as a positive way of tackling some of the trade imbalances between the richer countries and the poorer countries. as someone who has many friends and relatives in many of these poorer countries, i think we have to look no further than the governments of many of these countries: poor governance issues; state monopolies and corrupt governments that are preventing entrepreneurs in these countries from creating wealth; the fact that they find it difficult to import the materials that they need to add value and create wealth; also the fact that many citizens of the countries are denied access to goods and services that we take for granted here in the eu and in many richer countries. let us also recognise that the best way to help people out of poverty is to help the entrepreneurs. the entrepreneurs will create the jobs, they will create the wealth and they will take poor people out of poverty. during recent negotiations on the economic partnership agreements, many members right across the political spectrum were concerned about the commission’s one-size-fits-all approach to the epas. in one case in which i was concerned, the commission official, when questioned in committee, said that the epas are not only about trade; they are also about regional integration and exporting the eu model. but when we asked whether some of the acp countries that had specific concerns could be given gsp+ as an alternative, we were told this was not possible because they violate certain of the conventions and therefore do not qualify for gsp+. going forward, surely we should look to be more flexible in our application of gsp+, perhaps as an alternative to the epas. we can treat this in a number of ways. we can either impose sanctions on countries that do not meet standards or we can engage in ongoing dialogue to ensure that conditions in these countries are improved, and understand that rome was not built in a day and neither were europe’s superior high standards. it is time to engage and to help entrepreneurs in developing countries rather than to over-politicise the issue.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the lisbon treaty is now a legal reality in the international order, even if it lacks popular democratic legitimacy because most eu citizens, including britain’s, were denied a vote in a referendum. nevertheless, the ecr group and british conservatives are committed to positive engagement and to moving on within the new institutional framework. we would like to see a similar approach from the member states and the commission. it is deeply ironic, in my view, that the first major institutional development under lisbon, namely the creation of the european external action service, threatens to push the eu back towards the very introspection and bickering that lisbon was supposed to have eradicated. undoubtedly the creation of the eas must be subject to debate and consensus about who does what and does it best, but the cfsp foreign policy elements must remain firmly within the council. but we also need strong leadership, in theory enabled by the lisbon treaty, to forge a lasting vision for europe’s diplomacy in the world. we look to you, high representative ashton, to seize the initiative and to assert the authority and leadership provided to you by the treaty, to knock heads together if necessary and to chart the way forward. we will support you in your efforts if you can show that you are up to the daunting challenge. the eu has had many years to think about this service, so this muddling through and hesitation that we currently see does no credit to the eu’s ambitions to play a global role in foreign policy through the cfsp. there are more general points. the albertini report, which i support strongly, sets out the union’s foreign policy priorities and rightly endorses the eu membership aspirations for the western balkan countries, particularly croatia, macedonia and montenegro, for which i am rapporteur. but it also mentions the transatlantic alliance and nato, which we believe are the cornerstones of the eu’s foreign security policy. it rightly emphasises the eu’s responsibility for resolving the frozen conflicts, particularly in transnistria and nagorno-karabakh in our immediate neighbourhood, and good relations with ukraine. but, finally, taiwan is also mentioned as an important partner for the eu and it should also be enabled to participate actively and fully in international organisations, according to the eu’s policy and the ‘one china’ policy.
mr president, i think we all expected that there were going to be teething troubles in bringing the treaty into force and we might apologise for failing to include a clause on time travel in the treaty, but the thing we failed to expect and cannot accept is a breakdown of trust between the commission and council in setting up the external service. the solution is found in the treaty, which ought to be appreciated and respected scrupulously. article 40 protects the respective functions of the commission and the council. both of them should apply pragmatism to ensure that a strong, effective, coherent diplomacy can be created across the breadth of policy. catherine ashton gives us a graphic description of the eu as a rising power from a declining continent. it is quite clear that the afghan campaign is a problem that commands our attention; a profound reform of strategy and tactics is required. our task should be to reassess the purpose, cost and duration of our engagement there. the alde group is anxious to press the accelerator on defence. we must find the common security interests of the 27 states and draw on comparable exercises in these states and a frank appraisal of the strengths of the esdp missions, creating circumstances for bringing forward permanent structured cooperation in defence.
mr president, where the eu can add value and when it does not undermine our sovereign interests or compete with organisations such as nato, we can support it. for the most part this will mean adopting common positions on certain key issues and civil tasks in the field of humanitarian assistance or post-conflict reconstruction and development, although i have to say that the track record of eupol in afghanistan does not inspire much confidence. the simple truth is that your role as eu foreign minister is to act as handmaiden for eu political integration. the effect of the external action service, the chain of eu embassies around the world, will be to undermine national representation in many capitals, armed perversely with cash that has come from our nations in order to take forward someone else’s foreign policy. the report before us on eu security and defence policy is a manifesto for eu military integration, deliberately confusing military and civil crisis management in order to justify an eu role. it relies on a bogus narrative concerning eu operations and increasingly seeks to involve the commission in areas which are properly the responsibility of our nations and of the council. virtually every paragraph of this report advocates ratcheting up military eu integration at the expense of nato and the sovereign integrity of individual european countries. i recall one of the great red lines of the british labour government’s negotiating stance when it said it would resist the idea of a separate and permanent eu operations centre responsible for operational planning and conduct of military operations as this would be the clearest example of duplication of nato, whose shape headquarters performs precisely this role. baroness ashton, when i asked you about this on 11 january, you said you agreed with the position i took then. now you seem to have changed your mind. i would be very interested to know what you really think now.
mr president, please allow me to speak frankly as one lancastrian to another, because this is not going very well, is it? it really is not. earlier on, baroness ashton, you said that europe needs a credible foreign policy. how can we have a credible foreign policy when it has an incredible high representative? you seem as if you are stumbling from one crisis to another. so much so that the british foreign secretary had to write you a letter this week asking you to buck up, to get on your game. but we in ukip were on to this from the start. we opposed your appointment because we said you would be clearly out of your depth – and we are being proved right. it was said that your appointment, made by the commission, would stop the traffic in tokyo and washington. but you have not even been able to appoint the ambassador to washington because old barroso did you up like a kipper! it is also claimed in the british press that you do not turn your phone on after 8 p.m. at night. but, baroness ashton, you are the highest-paid female politician in the world. you are paid more than frau merkel, you are paid more than hillary clinton: it is a 24-hour job. to top it all, yesterday it was reported that you are being provided with a learjet. you are expected to do 300 000 miles per year. that would get you to the moon, and most people now would like you to stay there.
mr president, high representative ashton has asked us this morning to change mental maps, to challenge resistance to institutional change and to avoid narrow defence of national interests. if parliament means what it says on the cfsp we have to send a clear message that we will support a strong, comprehensive and inclusive external action service and, in observing our own prerogatives, we will not be part of any vested interests seeking to limit the capacity, and therefore the effectiveness, of that service. that should mean appointments on merit and merit alone, appointments from member state foreign ministries from day one and from across all of the european union; it means incorporation of strategic advice on issues like energy supply and environmental policy; it means organisational structures which reflect global reach and give due weight to africa and to transatlantic relations as well as to asia, latin america and our neighbourhood; it means sufficient financial margin, not just for rapid reaction or humanitarian response, but to move monies to reflect new political priorities; it means endorsing cathy ashton’s decision to put disaster response above disaster tourism and for her to provide key direction to financial programming and it means this parliament supporting new arrangements with deputising which reflect international practice rather than necessarily sticking to our past rules. finally, i am delighted to see the commission seat empty this morning and, for all those who campaigned for the lisbon treaty, we should not restrict their or our support for its full implementation.
mr president, 58 people lost their lives on sunday trying to exercise their right to vote in the iraqi elections, and 140 were seriously injured. however, violence, intimidation, threats of attack and blackmail did not deter millions of courageous iraqis from going to the polls. there have been repeated attempts to manipulate and distort the outcome of the election. the banning of more than 500 secular non-sectarian candidates by the bogus accountability and justice commission, the repeated bomb attacks on polling day and the deeply sinister delay in announcing the results are all disturbing signs of dirty tricks. the ominous interference of iran has been a constant feature of this election, and we must today send it this stark warning: do not try to install a puppet prime minister in iraq, do not try to defraud the iraqi people of their democratic rights and do not plunge iraq back into sectarian chaos, because the west is watching you, and you are under the spotlight.
mr president, baroness ashton’s role is described in article 18 of the treaty on european union as contributing to the development of a common foreign and security policy, as mandated by the council, which of course contains the representatives of nation states. however, the same article states that she must be a vice-president of the commission, from which she operates. furthermore, i understand that former commission staff will be given preference over the staff of diplomatic and foreign ministries when staff are appointed to the external action service. baroness ashton, it is clear that your role was designed to undermine continually the influence over foreign policy by member states, not only individually but also collectively on the council. you and your successors will be mandated by the council only on paper. the real driving force behind the eu’s foreign policy will be the commission; member states and the council will be continually marginalised.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
mr president, on a point of order, i think you would find that if you took the first vote at 12.00 people would then sit down and participate, rather than waiting for them to sit down and participate and then taking the vote. (applause)
i am very considerate.
we shall now proceed to the vote.
mr president, i would just like the house to recognise the presence in the gallery of noam shalit, the father of staff sergeant gilad shalit, a dual israeli-eu citizen cruelly held in detention for more than three years incommunicado by hamas in gaza. we in this house all hope that noam’s campaign for his son will be successful and that he will be released shortly. (applause)
thank you, mr tannock.
i am sorry but i think we have heard enough. thank you so much, mr uspaskich. i have cut you off.
mr president, we have heard a great deal about proportionality in this debate, and i wonder what opponents of israel would consider to be proportionate. i wonder whether they would have preferred it if the jewish state had simply taken an equivalent amount of ordnance and rained it randomly on gaza. would that have been a proportionate response? i would like also to examine the proportionality, or lack of proportionality, in this report. one has the eerie feeling, reading the goldstone report, that one is reading about a violent assault in which the author has neglected to mention that the events took place during a boxing match. they have been stripped of all context. i am not saying that israel should be beyond criticism, nor am i saying that cast lead is beyond criticism. mistakes were made. israel wants to get to a position where there is a stable palestinian entity to be a good neighbour, but this policy of degrading infrastructure has retarded that goal. equally, the partiality and tone of this report have pushed further away the idea of a two-state solution in which an israeli entity and a palestinian one live side by side as peaceable neighbours.
mr president, although i support much of the wording of this resolution, i wonder whether we are best placed to lecture belarus about the inadequacies of its democracy. we complain that belarus has a weak rubber-stamp parliament, but look around you. here we are meekly rubber-stamping the decisions of our 27-member politburo. we complain about the fact that, although they have elections, they rig them; we on the other hand have referendums, hold them honestly but then disregard the result. we complain about the survival of the apparatus of the soviet union there and yet we maintain our common agricultural policy, our social chapter, our 48-hour week and the rest of the apparatus of euro-corporatism. it is a small wonder that the old systemic communist parties of the comecon states were leading the ‘yes’ campaigns when their countries applied to join the evropeyskiy soyuz. for some of them, in fact, it felt like coming home; i am reminded of the eerie closing pages of animal farm, where the animals look from man to pig and from pig to man and already find that they cannot tell which is which.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr recognises that the financial services industry cannot expect to escape from the crisis scot free. enormous damage has been done through reckless behaviour, and the cost of sorting out the mess must be borne by those involved. furthermore, new systems must be put in place to ensure that this never happens again, and that funds are available for emergency purposes to stabilise systemic failures. it is possible that in the context of international agreement the time has come for some financial transaction tax. whatever the doubts about the practicalities of putting such a system into place, no measure should be ruled out as long as it has the backing of the whole international community and as long as safeguards are there to ensure that it works and cannot be avoided. most of today’s resolution has our backing, but we take exception to paragraph 7 for two reasons. first of all, we oppose new tax-raising powers for the european union. this paragraph – carefully worded though it may be – suggests that this is a desired outcome. secondly, the whole point of a financial transaction tax should not be to raise money for pet projects, no matter how worthy. instead, it must be to ensure future financial stability and to protect against the kind of events that have caused the recent economic chaos. this resolution, as it stands, is too focused on a transaction-tax solution, implies eu, not member state, tax-raising powers, suggests utilising the money raised for funding development and climate-change projects instead of stabilising the financial sector and, finally, suggests that an eu tax might be feasible without global participation. for these reasons, we have voted against this specific motion for a resolution.
mr president, i am unconvinced of the case for a tax on financial transactions but i accept the sincere motives of the supporters of the proposal. it is an issue on which people of goodwill can come to different conclusions. what there is no case for whatsoever is the imposition of such a tax exclusively in the european union. a tobin tax applied only regionally will result in a flight of capital to those jurisdictions where no such tax pertains, so why has this house just voted in such large numbers for a system which will disadvantage the european union? the answer is that it ticks all the boxes of a certain kind of member of this house. it attacks the bankers, it attacks the city of london and, above all, it furnishes the european union with an independent stream of revenue, which means that it does not have to go to the member states. taken together with the various other proposals that we see coming for the harmonisation of financial supervision, the alternative investment fund managers directive and so on, we see an epical threat to the city of london and we see the european union being consigned to poverty and irrelevance.
mr president, anyone who looks at the recent financial crisis will wonder how we allowed regulation and supervision to lead to a situation where we ended up with banks being deemed too big to fail and billions in taxpayers’ money being used to prop up these banks. so, when one thinks about this idea of a global financial transaction tax, it may seem reasonable if we want to help the victims of the financial crisis and also help those in poorer countries. but if we think about how this would actually be imposed, and the real impact, and we follow it through the chain within the financial markets, in reality you would find banks passing these costs on to their customers. it would also impact heavily on those of us who want to trade with developing countries or entrepreneurs in developing countries who want to trade with the rest of the world, and hit the cost of insurance, which is such a vital part of international trade. if we really want to tackle this problem, we should not be handing billions in taxpayers’ money to corrupt or incompetent governments. we should be making sure that we lift tariff barriers in both the eu and poor countries, to help entrepreneurs in poorer countries to create wealth and take people out of poverty.
mr president, one of the important things about this motion for a resolution was the fact that we managed to achieve an alliance right across the house. one area of common agreement was the fact that, in the absence of any meaningful information surrounding these negotiations, what you saw on the blogosphere and elsewhere were rumours suggesting proposals such as the confiscation of laptops and mp3 players at borders. what was quite clear across the house was that we wanted information and more transparency on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement negotiations. the commissioner last night heard that message loud and clear, and i am very pleased that he has promised to give us more information. if the commission is negotiating on behalf of 27 member states and on behalf of the eu, then it is essential that we know what the negotiating position is, and also that there is a full impact assessment on what is being proposed to show how it will impact on eu industry. i welcome the comments made last night by the commissioner, and look forward to more transparency.
mr president, as many of us know, the gsp system is up for review and the current system is coming to an end. one of the things that is very important when we look at gsp and gsp+ is that, during the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements, there were many individual states in the proposed regions that were against signing a deal with the eu. one of the things i have always criticised in the economic partnership agreements is that they take a one-size-fits-all approach to trade. what was also alarming, during the debate with the commission, was that one of the officials announced that the economic partnership agreements were not only about trade but also about exporting the eu’s model of regional integration. there are individual countries that want to have agreements with the eu and want to be able to export their goods and services to us on a preferential basis. therefore, what we should propose is to offer those countries that want a trade agreement, but do not fit the criteria of the economic partnership agreements, gsp+ as an alternative, and we look to be more flexible. hopefully we shall then help entrepreneurs to create wealth, and take poor people out of poverty, in many of these countries.
mr president, barely noticed, south america and central america are sliding into a form of autocracy – a kind of neo-caudillismo. in nicaragua, venezuela, ecuador and bolivia we have seen the rise of regimes which, if not exactly dictatorial, are certainly not supportive of parliamentary democracy – people who, although legitimately elected, then set about dismantling every check on their power: the electoral commission, the supreme court, the chambers of their parliament and, in many cases, dissolving their constitutions and rewriting – ‘refounding’, as they call it –their states along socialist principles. with all this going on, whom do the left choose to criticise in that part of the world? one of the few regimes that genuinely enjoys popular support – that of álvaru uribe in colombia, who has the support of more than three quarters of his population because he has restored order to that unhappy country and has cracked down on the paramilitaries of both left and right. it shows an extraordinary set of priorities that he should be the person that some in this chamber have chosen to pick on. shame on them. es una desgracia hacer el caldo gordo a los paramilitares. ¡qué vergüenza!
mr president, i voted against amendments 17d and 19, which attacked nato and called for the removal of nato bases here in the european union. well, one of the last arguments of those who believe in this european project is that the eu has kept the peace in europe for the last 50 or 60 years. well i would actually say that is a lie and that is was actually nato which kept the peace in europe with its forces. i think it is a shame for this house to have allowed such an amendment to be voted on. i noticed that the group which actually proposed this amendment are the remnants of a failed ideology that kept their people behind walls and breached their fundamental human rights. it was nato forces that protected the rest of europe from this nightmare. i wish to place on record my gratitude to the us and canada and the other nations of nato for sparing us that nightmare. i believe that it is in the uk’s interest to cooperate with all of these countries against a new form of totalitarianism that is the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to exempt micro-entities (small firms) from eu law on accounting standards. this is an extremely important proposal as it will reduce the unnecessary burden of red tape on small businesses, and help over five million firms to make a saving of approximately gbp 1 000 each. the eu has made a commitment to reduce burdens on small and medium enterprises by 25% by 2012 and this law is a vitally important step along the path to achieving this objective. these small firms are often the first step on the ladder to successful employers of the future, and they need to be nurtured, especially during times of recession.
in writing. − we decided to abstain on all of the votes on palestine and israel. we could not vote for resolutions that purported to give the european union the power to conduct foreign policy or that were inconsistent with our policy of neutrality on the conflict. we do take a neutral policy position between israel, the palestinians and other arab and muslim countries. however, our policy is not a neutrality of indifference. in particular, we recognise that attacks on civilians either by states or by organisations are entirely unacceptable. furthermore, we would be gratified to see an end to the conflict by an honourable settlement.
in writing. − whilst i recognise that the conflict in gaza and the west bank is a humanitarian tragedy, my votes do not support the existence of international influence of the european institutions as i do not recognise the european union. my votes in parliament on 10 march 2010 reflect my conscience on this subject.
in writing. − i strongly support the findings of the goldstone report, and am pleased that the parliament has endorsed its recommendations. i hope the process of lasting peace through a two state solution will be supported by the goldstone findings.
in writing. − the ecr group does not recognise a substantial amount of the goldstone report and hence we did not vote in favour of the ppe motion for resolution and the joint motion for resolution. the ecr group has grave concerns about the legitimacy and biased nature of the report produced by judge goldstone, and, especially, do not want to see members of the idf or politicians indicted for war crimes. we do support continued talks for peace and security in the region, we support a two-state solution and we do recognise the humanitarian issues brought about by the ongoing conflict in the region.
in writing. − i support a tax of financial transactions, and i am very pleased that this initiative is gaining such support. in order to be effective it should be a global tax, and i support measures to introduce such a charge on financial transactions.
in writing. − we have voted overwhelmingly today to maintain the political momentum behind a global financial transaction tax (ftt). it is clear that the time has come for radical action to ensure the financial sector pays its way in the wake of the crisis and an ftt could be an important tool. it has strong support from the public and from ngos and unions across europe. an ftt could help reduce volatile and risky financial trading while raising billions to help tackle the effects of climate change and help developing countries who have been hit hardest by the financial crisis. this resolution calls for the commission to analyse options for such a tax and sends a clear signal that europe will push for a global agreement to deliver on the public’s demand for action. it is disappointing that the ecr group and its conservative members, who are clearly against any financial transaction tax, have chosen in their statements to deliberately misrepresent today’s vote as a call for an eu-only ftt. if europe takes no action and comes to no view then we will be left out of the international debate – our vote today is a mandate instead for europe to help lead this debate.
in writing. − whilst we as a group voted against the acta resolution on wednesday, 10 march 2010, we did so on the principle that the acta treaty itself should not exist in any form. it is a catastrophic violation of individual private property. had we voted in support of the resolution, we would have been recognising the existence of such legislation, but decided on that basis not to recognise the treaty.
in writing. − transparency of the acta negotiations is of vital importance, and i am glad the parliament has called for full disclosure in such powerful numbers. while i am pleased to hear assurances that individuals will not be criminalised for personal use, and that the acta agreement will not be used to prevent generic medicines reaching developing countries, i hope the parliament will be able to access all documents and monitor the negotiations to ensure this is upheld.
in writing. − labour meps welcome this annual review of the european security strategy and common security and defence policy especially in the light of the changes brought about by the ratification of the lisbon treaty, and in this regard especially welcome the role of high representative baroness cathy ashton in the associated debate in parliament. while voting in favour of the report as a whole, we decided to vote against paragraph 20, which proposes the establishment of an permanent eu operations centre. it is our longstanding position and that of the british government that there is no need for such a centre, which would needlessly duplicate existing structures. on amendment 20 we chose to abstain as, although we wholeheartedly welcome moves towards a world free of nuclear weapons, we note the inaccuracy in this amendment that the ‘us’ weapons in this context represent nato, rather than us capability, and as such we believe that the question of the removal of nuclear warheads from germany or elsewhere is a debate to be held by nato allies including the us. it is not a debate for the eu as a separate multilateral entity.
in writing. − labour meps would like to express our deep commitment to the aim of a world free of nuclear weapons. we are proud that britain as a nuclear power is leading efforts towards a nuclear non-proliferation agreement in may in new york that involves global consensus. we have supported this resolution with the clear aim of sending the message that the european parliament and labour meps will support all efforts to ensure we leave behind the bad old days of nuclear stand-offs and mutually assured destruction. we decided to abstain on amendment 2 as we believe that military doctrine is a matter for national governments to decide and not in the prerogative of the european parliament. we also joined with our political group in supporting amendment 3 as we believe there is a right for all states to develop civil nuclear power, but there is a responsibility for these states to reject the development of nuclear weapons. labour meps will continue to support disarmament amongst possessor states, to prevent proliferation to new states, and ultimately to achieve a world that is free from nuclear weapons.
in writing. − there are many elements to the resolution we can agree with. we are strongly in favour of a robust and effective non-proliferation treaty. however, the resolution as it stands includes some unhelpful elements and the ecr group therefore abstained. recital l questions the holdings of tactical nuclear weapons in five european non-nuclear states. we are in favour of the continued presence of such weapons as they contribute to burden-sharing and guaranteeing us military commitment to european security. in a number of places there are implied criticisms of close allies whereas our criticisms should be aimed at those that are a threat to international security. neither the uk nor france nor indeed the us now produce fissile material for weapons. it is a different matter to say that their production facilities for fissile materials should, at this stage, be abandoned. the call for the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in the middle east is obviously aimed at israel. israel faces an existential threat from neighbours, several of whom have a history of developing nuclear and other wmds, and indeed at least one, iran, continues in that direction.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to say to the high representative: thank you so much for your statement. i think many of us in this chamber are so pleased that you are carrying on what was started by the commission and also followed up by the presidency statements last autumn. you underlined the fragile nature and environment of the arctic. that fragile nature is, as you recognised, a global concern, not just one that concerns europe or indeed those nations in the arctic. the arctic also presents itself as a unique opportunity for multinational cooperation. it is unique also for us as the eu to have a positive relationship with russia there, through the northern dimension. that is something we must absolutely build on with other partners. but it has to be a meaningful cooperation overall in the arctic, and it is worrying – and you did not touch on this in your statement – that we see the development of an inner core of five coastal states of the arctic meeting outside the architecture of the arctic council. this could seriously undermine a very precious cooperation and it has to be treated with some seriousness. likewise, we – the eu – have been rebuffed for observer status. we have some fences we need to mend and we need to try to re-establish confidence in what it is that we want to establish in the arctic. i believe that the original commission communication was an amazing document in the way it brought together many cross-cutting issues across a number of dgs in the commission. this is a good basis on which we can build. we all wait with interest as to how you will coordinate this policy, going forward in the new commission and with your unique role wearing two hats. but thank you for the start.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, when denmark joined the eu in 1973, the eu assumed an arctic dimension through the danish dependency of greenland. in 1985 greenland chose to leave the eu but, when sweden and finland joined 10 years later, they substantially enlarged the eu’s interest in the arctic region. since then, the eu has become one of the many actors with a vital strategic interest in the arctic – its environment and its natural resources. as countries with territory in the arctic, the united states, canada, russia, norway and iceland all defend their interests robustly and vigorously. the european union should not hesitate now to do so as well and the arctic council, in my view, is the best arena in which to do so. the union’s ad hoc observer status in the arctic council is inadequate for this purpose. i hope that the high representative will insist on permanent observer status for the eu at the next ministerial meeting in april next year in greenland. it is regrettable that canada is blocking the eu in retaliation for the union’s ban on seal products, and i hope that, eventually, common sense will prevail. this approach makes little sense, given the fact that six eu member states, including the united kingdom – my own – are permanent observers. nevertheless, the coordination between denmark, sweden and finland on the arctic council has been exemplary and has served as a platform for the eu’s wider interest to be heard in the region. the contributions of our ally, norway, and iceland, now an aspiring eu member state, have further galvanised european participation in the arctic forum. this is vital because russia has left us in little doubt as to its own designs on the arctic, famously planting a russian flag on the seabed of the north pole in 2007. we know to our cost that russia sometimes follows its own rule book in international affairs. only a united front by other members and the observers on the arctic council, working through the eu’s northern dimension policy, will keep the kremlin in check. we cannot allow the arctic to become the new arena for russia’s expansionist tendencies.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate today and want to address a very specific issue that has already been raised by some of the colleagues that i have listened to. there is no doubt that living conditions in the beautiful arctic area are harsh, but there is equally no doubt that, with new technologies and advances, the area will inevitably be opened up for greater exploitation of its natural resources, with fisheries being a prime example. in the commission communication of 2008, the current extent of fisheries is examined, as is the possibility that new areas could be opened up. it is indeed right that there should be some systematic approach to this. fishing in a sustainable manner protects stock and gives a future to fishing communities. the same document also, quite rightly, makes mention of the need to protect indigenous peoples and local populations, using the statistic that about one third of the four million people who live in the area are indigenous to the area – again, a very laudable objective. however – and this is where i warn the commission – i still see the evidence, in both of the documents, that the commission has not learnt the lesson from the disaster of the common fisheries policy, which in northern ireland has been responsible for the destruction of the fishing industry. the top-down approach of always controlling and setting policy targets and methods from brussels has been an abject failure, yet the inference from the 2008 document and from the foreign affairs council of december 2009 is that the eu will use the same approach in the arctic region. i urge the high representative, as she continues to explore how to coordinate policy in this area, to be mindful of this particular issue.
i am very sorry, but we had no interpretation for the last part of your speech.
madam president, there is an english folk tale about king canute who, by ordering the tide not to come in and wet his feet, showed his courtiers that not even kings are exempt from reality. in doing so, he became a byword for arrogant folly. king canute lives on in the council of the european union, which begins and ends its conclusion on arctic affairs with the alleged importance of global warming. this involves a refusal to accept scientific reality. according to the us national snow and ice data centre, arctic summer ice has increased by 409 000 square miles, or 26%, since 2007. this is exactly what was predicted by scientists aware that the previous shrinkage of summer ice, wrongly used as evidence for global warming, was in fact nothing more than a snapshot of an ages-old natural cyclical pulse of advance, retreat and advance. so the arctic summer ice will not vanish by 2013 and polar bears have not, and will not, drown because of global warming. but millions of hard-working voters are drowning in a sea of debt and taxes, and they are growing very impatient with the political class’s use of the global-warming fraud to impose undemocratic international governance and bogus green taxes. the un has now announced a review of the ipcc’s dodgy dossiers and fiddled statistics. on behalf of the taxpayers of britain, i ask this parliament to do the same and to stop wasting any more money on the most expensive big lie in human history.
madam president, the european union wants a comprehensive arctic policy. this proposition is entirely bizarre. cyprus and greece, for example, have historic cultures, but look at the geography. it is really rather hard to understand why a country on the aegean sea needs there to be an eu policy on the arctic. but an eu arctic policy is perhaps not so bizarre as the appointment of the supremely unqualified baroness ashton, the sarah palin of the ex-student left, as high representative. at the hearings it was clear that the high representative has forgotten nothing and has learnt nothing. and, by the way… (the president cut off the speaker.)
i am sorry but i do not think we should listen to personal comments like that in this chamber. (interjection from the floor)your speaking time has finished. we will not have personal comments of that nature. (interjection from the floor)we shall now move to the next speaker.
we now move to the catch-the-eye part of the debate. before we do so, i just want to clarify that, if, as the president of the debate, i feel speech is being used which tends to disrupt the business of the house, i am fully within my rights to stop that person from speaking.
madam president, the arctic debate has certainly generated some heat this afternoon! what kind of parliament is it that tries to prevent its members speaking when it disapproves of what they say? however, we should not be surprised at this when our new high representative for foreign policy was once described by mi5 as a communist sympathiser and, when she was treasurer of the cnd, it took money from the soviet bloc to undermine her own country’s defence policy. this place looks more and more like the soviet union every day.
madam president, i should like to say to lady ashton: this is the first opportunity i have had to comment on your new role. i, like you, come from the united kingdom. the only difference is that i was elected and you were not. on the issue of the arctic, is this going to become a resources race with russia, america and canada for fishing stocks and a quarter of the world’s oil and gas? you have experienced at first hand the arms race during the cold war. will you now be taking us into an ice war? actions in the arctic are likely to exacerbate foreign relations and europe should not even have a foreign policy in the arctic, and certainly not with someone like you at the helm. you have proven already not to be capable of doing this job. i have no doubt your leadership will have us all skating on very thin ice. if you had a school report on your first 100 days it would say ‘you must do better’, but the reality is that if you were in the office for 100 years you would still be a failure. please do the honourable thing and resign.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on cuba.
madam president, firstly i want to express my own deep sympathy for the death of orlando zapata tamayo and my deepest concern for the four further cuban prisoners and one opposition activist who have themselves started hunger strikes in protest. the european parliament should reiterate our call for the immediate and unconditional release of prisoners of conscience in cuba – 55 according to amnesty international, 200 according to cuba’s human rights commission – and we should express particular concern today for the recent detention and beating of darsi ferrer, director of a health and human rights centre in havana. amnesty international itself has not been invited to visit cuba for 19 years and should be allowed to do so. we should ask the cuban government to agree specific dates for the proposed visit of manfred nowak, un special rapporteur on torture, who we intend to meet in geneva next week. as i am one of the people in this house who has always opposed the us embargo on trade, inflicted since 1962, i have welcomed the fact that under president obama measures have been approved to allow cuban americans to travel more freely as well as sending more money home. i welcomed the review in 2008 of our eu common position leading to the establishment of a political dialogue between cuba and the eu and re-establishing ec development cooperation, and i welcome the fact that the bbc has recently been given free access to cuba. but i express disappointment that, in the united nations human rights council, cuba has failed to agree the recommendations to ratify the two key human rights conventions – the iccpr and the icescr – and to allow independent inspection of prisons. i say to the commission and to the presidency this afternoon that you – and all of us who visit cuba – should remain firm in ensuring that we meet members of cuban civil society. us deputy assistant secretary of state bisa williams was able to undertake such an unrestricted visit last year and we should insist – any of us that go to cuba – that we do the same.
the next item is question time (b7-0017/2010). the following questions are addressed to the council.
i would like to congratulate the minister on his excellent answer and the fine work which we in europe are doing to protect the rights of immigrants. my fear is that sometimes we fail to protect the rights of our own citizens when they move from one country to another. i think particularly of some of my east midlands constituents who have spent their retirement savings on a home in spain only to find, after living there for two or three years, that they have the bulldozers at the door and their rights of property, their rights to the enforcement of contract are simply ignored by the spanish courts and the spanish authorities. i should be grateful if the minister could explain to us why this is and what action spain will take to resolve this problem for european citizens in his country.
question 2 by marian harkin (h-0053/10) subject: domestic violence in the spanish presidency's statement at the plenary session in january 2010, the presidency highlighted its firm intention to combat violence against women, to propose draft legislation to fight violence against women and to establish a european observatory of domestic violence. can the presidency elaborate on what exactly its plans are in this area and when we can expect such initiatives to be put in place?
i wish to join mrs harkin in congratulating the spanish presidency on putting violence against women at the top of its political agenda. i wonder if the presidency would look at an experience 20 years ago. edinburgh city council, financed by european social fund money, conducted a campaign called ‘zero tolerance’ in relation to violence against women. its conclusion was that you need a holistic approach to this issue. you need information policy, you need housing authorities involved, you need the police involved and you need the judicial authorities involved. will the council examine that project to see what lessons can be drawn?
question 3 by bernd posselt (h-0054/10) subject: danube strategy what steps will the council take to ensure that it can submit a draft danube strategy before the end of the year as planned? what is the timetable and what are the main points of the strategy's content?
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question 4 by konstantinos poupakis (h-0055/10) subject: the european social model and combating poverty at times of economic recession and crisis the unemployed, low wage earners and pensioners on small pensions find it hardest to maintain a decent standard of living. the mobilisation of the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund has not had the desired effect, since 80 million of our fellow citizens are living below the poverty threshold. the european social model is based not only on good economic performance but also on a high level of social protection. in view of this, how does the spanish presidency intend, as part of a joint policy in cooperation with upcoming presidencies, to support the lower economic and social strata so as to help them survive and at the same time protect groups of our fellow citizens who are at risk from poverty and social exclusion, thereby safeguarding the core of a social europe? question 5 by liam aylward (h-0102/10) subject: european year for combating poverty and social exclusion eur 17 million has been provided for 2010 – european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. although this european year will promote greater awareness of these particular issues, there is a need for an effective joint action in order to make a substantial difference to the millions of people in the european union who are suffering because of poverty and social exclusion. what action does the council intend to take which would lead to the adoption of concrete measures during this year? would the council explain how this european year, and its associated budget, will be used effectively to attain long-term results?
the economic effects are obviously worse in some member states than others. thank you for talking about pensioners. my understanding is that the commission has the ability to withhold structural funds if member states are not complying with eu legislation. could the presidency undertake to investigate whether the recommendations of the auken report, voted through this parliament last march, have been complied with? these are regarding property owners in spain. this has had a devastating effect on european pensioners, driving some of them into poverty and exclusion.
what is the minister representing the presidency going to do to protect groups of our fellow citizens who are at risk from poverty and social exclusion as a direct result of spanish policy towards british and other member state residents in various areas of spain whose properties are being expropriated and who are suffering under dubious planning policies? the minister on behalf of the presidency cannot evade this issue anymore; he must pursue the spanish government and invite them to take the necessary action.
mr president-in-office of the council, i thank you for your presence. my question relates to the poverty of those european citizens who are in some parts of spain. i understand that you are here representing the executive branch, not the judicial branch, and that you are not the spokesman for the valencian community, but we need an answer. there are abuses here that have nothing to do with the written law but with the law implemented and this is a problem that has a solution. i ask nothing more than an investigation by the spanish government into the abuses identified.
your spanish is impressive, mr hannan. i shall again leave it to the discretion of the minister as to whether he wishes to deal with this.
question 6 has been with drawn. as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question 7 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0057/10) subject: eu-russia visa regime the spanish presidency of the council intends to work towards the future abolition of the visa regime for eu and russian citizens. this may be a long process, and one that will depend a great deal on russia’s ability to implement successfully the action plan drawn up with this objective in mind. were the eu to open up to russia’s province of kaliningrad, or vice versa, this would demonstrate that the eu and russia are moving towards ‘demolishing visa walls’. both russia and the eu have an interest in the principle of cooperation on both sides of the border and in an anti isolationist policy regarding the kaliningrad region. to that end, neighbouring poland and lithuania have reached agreement on making it easier for people living in border areas to cross the border, but this has yet to be implemented. how does council assess the specific situation of the province of kaliningrad in terms of the dialogue between the eu and russia on visa matters? how could this dialogue be used in order to sign local traffic agreements between eu member states (lithuania and poland) and the russian federation in order to make border crossing procedures easier for people living in border areas? question 8 by laima liucija andrikiene (h-0080/10) subject: eu-russia relations: spanish presidency agenda the spanish presidency of the eu has set out an ambitious agenda when it comes to eu-russia relations – it would like to see the conclusion of negotiations with russia on the new partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), an agreement with russia on a visa-free regime, as well as progress on a free-trade agreement between the eu and russia. in order to conclude a free-trade agreement with the eu, russia first needs to become a member of the world trade organisation (wto). are there tangible prospects that russia will join the wto any time soon? does the council have a particular strategy on how to compel russia to join the wto? does the council see any substantial progress as concerns the negotiations with russia on the new pca? does the council consider that the idea of a free-trade regime with russia is timely considering the disagreements within the eu on the issue? does the council consider russia to be more prepared for a visa-free regime than other partners of the eu, such as ukraine, moldova or georgia?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we can set all the targets under the sun for tackling climate change but we will not reach them, especially the longer-term targets for 2050, unless we invest deeply and systematically in developing and improving sustainable low-carbon technology. the us is rightly criticised for its failure to sign up to greenhouse gas reduction targets, but the eu is nowhere near the level of investment that the us is at at present. without proper investment, the eu’s sustainable low-carbon investment programme will stall, and that means that hundreds of thousands of jobs which could be created here in the eu, and in regions like my own, the north-east of england, which are already starting to make that transformation to a low-carbon economy, without investment those jobs will go elsewhere to the us and china. i am disappointed that the commission drew back from an earlier draft of the set plan, where the sources of the identified necessary investment were clearly indicated. will the commission now be more explicit, especially about the eur 1 billion per annum shortfall that the commissioner has just mentioned? finally, it is, of course, important to achieve improvements in nuclear technology, especially with regard to safety of operation and waste management, but my group takes the view that ‘sustainable nuclear fission’ is a contradiction in terms. will the commissioner rename the sixth european industrial initiative simply the ‘nuclear energy initiative’?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i have to express some regret at the obsession on the left side of this parliament with nuclear energy, which has meant that we have two resolutions before the house today, most of the content of which has much in common except for this issue of nuclear energy, particularly when it is the only proven technology to supply large volumes of ultra low-carbon electricity in europe. if we are to wean ourselves off fossil fuels – especially oil and coal – we will need all the low-carbon energy technologies we can get. many of them are still more potential than production, and we must be realistic about how successful we have been in achieving target levels of energy from renewable sources. the eu has a record of setting very ambitious targets and a 100% record of failing to achieve them. we must do better. in the mean time we must lose no time in increasing the share of european electricity supplied by nuclear energy. it already produces the largest amount of electricity, but, as we switch to and develop alternative and new technologies, we will need base-load electricity to keep the lights on and, for example, to power electric vehicles. there is huge potential in new green technologies such as solar thermal from the sahara and wind farms from the north sea, not to mention carbon capture and storage and basic improvements in energy efficiency, where – at least on that point – i agree with my green colleague across the floor, but all of this requires massive investment, and that is the fundamental point about these questions today.
madam president, it is three years since the council set itself a target of having up to 12 ccs demonstration projects in operation by 2015, and we have not got much to show for it yet. yes, we have identified a source of funding and we have now got a draft decision from the commission, which is awaiting confirmation by parliament, as to how to use that funding, but it will not be until the end of next year before we are able to identify a project which will qualify for this funding. so the timetable is very tight and meeting that 2015 deadline becomes more and more difficult. there is slippage at every step of the way. can i ask the commission to consider these things. first, that timetable needs to be examined. can days, can weeks be shaved off it at all? and, in particular, can we put as much pressure as possible on the european investment bank to keep within the allocation it has been given in the draft decision? second, once parliament’s comitology procedure has been concluded, the commission should make an announcement about the timetable. it should publish this. that will help ensure that there is a minimum amount of slippage. it will keep everyone working towards a series of set deadlines. finally, remember that the biggest single delaying factor is likely to be the application that project developers have to go through to get planning permission for the pipelines and the like to take away co2. that could be very lengthy. it could blow the deadline completely out of the window. so can i ask for a statement from the commission, insisting that developers seeking european funding start applying for planning permission now. let them put their money where their mouth is.
madam president, i welcome the initiative to talk about investment in low-carbon technology but more specifically about energy-saving and providing more secure and diversified energy supplies. i would like to look in particular at the use of eu funds. the region i represent already has an eu fund of over eur 250 million for low-carbon economic growth. whilst its ambitions are worthy, the performance of this fund in actually making meaningful investments has fallen well below expectations. the east of england, including cambridge university, is also home to leading research facilities, and over 250 contracts have been signed in my region for framework 7 grants. i have seen some excellent innovative research, but there are great questions about complexity, especially for smes, bureaucracy, and inflexibility when adapting to developments and science. in some cases there are appalling stories of late payments by the eu itself. when considering how taxpayers’ money is invested in the future, we should look at the lessons of what has already happened and make sure we spend it better in the future.
madam president, we have heard a lot of nonsense today about green jobs. the fact is that our obsession with renewables is already driving up the cost of electricity and forcing european citizens into fuel poverty. higher energy prices mean that energy-intensive businesses in europe will simply give up and go away, to more favourable jurisdictions. higher energy prices mean lower growth and higher unemployment, and they cost jobs. i have only seen one formal study into this question of green jobs. that was in spain, and it demonstrated that, for every single job created in the green sector, 2.2 jobs were lost elsewhere. if we are really serious about low-carbon electricity, there is only one solution and that is nuclear power. across europe we are starting to talk about new nuclear capacity, and that is good. if we want to keep the lights on, we need a nuclear renaissance, and it we need it fast.
mr president, our people will be heartened to hear that there has been positive action in helping the people of chile. we have all been moved by their plight. however, today i want to address my remarks to more general issues around the humanitarian aid strategy. the european commission is very proud to declare itself to be one of the world’s largest donors of humanitarian aid. its mandate, it declares, is to save and preserve life, to find sanctuary for the displaced and to help the world ensure preparedness for natural disasters. these are truly worthy aspirations. however, it is not the commission’s money that is being donated. it is british, german, french – it is in fact money from 27 nation states. in a time of economic crisis every single one of these nations should be recognised for their worthy efforts. perhaps in their documents the commission should reflect this and acknowledge the efforts of those who actually do make the sacrifices. it is not the political elite and apparatchiks of the berlemont, but ordinary people from ordinary communities. whilst it is true that developing countries need aid, it is also true that they need our support in establishing and maintaining credible democratic structures. they need our help in building a strong and unfettered civic society. they also need our help – and, most importantly, our honesty – in pointing out the wrongdoing from political regimes that ensures that ordinary people continue to live in poverty and in need.
mr president, who would have thought 20 years ago, when the air of europe was thick with the brick dust of falling walls and with cries of freedom, that the red flag would still today be flying over havana and that fidel castro would be dying peacefully in bed on that sultry caribbean island. sola mors tyrannicida est, says my countryman, sir thomas more: death is the only way to get rid of tyrants. two things have kept the communist regime in place in cuba. first, the wrong-headed american blockade, which has allowed castro and his regime to blame all the privations of their countrymen on foreign imperialism rather than on the economic mismanagement of communism; and secondly the indulgence of some in europe, including some in this house, who have a disgusting double standard whereby they excuse human rights abuses and the denial of democracy in cuba on the grounds that it is good at producing doctors and ballerinas. i hope that this house will grow up and that some in this house will see beyond their days as students wearing che guevara t-shirts. the time has come for constructive engagement with the democratic forces in cuba. history will absolve us.
in writing. − while we recognise that cuba is a communist tyranny and while we want to see cuba transformed to a peaceful democratic state, we do not recognise the eu in this process.
in writing. − i condemn unreservedly the ill-treatment of people in cuba (or anywhere else). however, i abstained in the resolution, as a whole, against cuba. one reason was that the resolution purported to give authority to the european union and its functionaries to speak and act on behalf of member states. the other reason was that many member states of the european union prosecute and imprison people for exercising non-violent freedom of expression, the holding of heretical opinions or taking part in dissenting activity. it is utterly hypocritical for parties that favour political repression in europe to point the finger at states such as cuba that share their repressive and anti-democratic opinions and activities.
author. − mr president, staff sergeant gilad shalit has now been held hostage by the jihadi fanatics of hamas for over three years. hamas claims it is a legal actor observing the geneva conventions and therefore he is a prisoner of war, but israel, in my view rightly, regards him as an abductee from the moment he was seized. irrespective of his legal status and international law, he has been cruelly kept incommunicado in gaza, deprived of any contact with the outside world and even denied red cross access, which the geneva conventions mandate. his family has no information about his well-being beyond one video and sporadic indication from hamas that he is still alive and well. if hamas has any claim to be taken seriously by the international community, it should at least now show unequivocally that the conditions of his incarceration adhere to international humanitarian laws. but we demand more than that. we demand his immediate and unconditional release. i make no secret of my opposition to dialogue with the terrorists of hamas, an organisation committed to israel’s annihilation, but, if we are ever to deal with hamas, it must only be after gilad shalit has been liberated from his squalid captivity.
mr president, mexico has long been a primary conduit into the world’s largest market for illegal narcotics, the united states. mexico has therefore been scarred by the brutality and violence that go hand in hand with the drugs trade. moreover, mexico itself, as a country of 100 million people and a vital eu strategic partner, has increasingly – and sadly – become an important market for cocaine. the rising consumption by young people is especially worrying. drug-related violence in mexico only seems to be getting worse, with ever more grisly murders and journalists who report on such cases being themselves targeted. the prevalence of unemployment and poverty probably does not help either and induces a climate of lawlessness in parts of mexico. president calderón faces enormous challenges but he is determined to meet them head-on, and the eu should support him robustly. particularly we should support his efforts to reform and restructure the police and criminal justice system in order to break up the corrupt links between the drug cartels and law enforcement. i believe he is also quite justified in the need to use the army as a temporary emergency measure.
author. − mr president, the european union in general, and this parliament in particular, has a very proud record – an honourable tradition – of opposing the death penalty. therefore we can do nothing other than regret the decision of the republic of korea’s constitutional court that the death penalty is not a violation of that country’s constitution. however, i believe we have to keep the issue in proportion. the justices ruled by a narrow margin of five votes to four. the last time they voted it was seven votes to two. they did not urge or condone the use of the death penalty but called for a political decision for the korean parliament to decide on the future abolition of the death penalty in that country. we also have to note that south korea is de facto an abolitionist country. no executions have been carried out since february 1998 and, in 2007, amnesty international categorised south korea as a country that has virtually abolished capital punishment. however, the seriousness of this issue comes back to the fore when we realise that the floor leader of the grand national party in korea said just recently that this de facto moratorium on capital punishment should be ended and a swift execution should take place of certain prisoners. i hope this unfortunate opportunistic voice in korea will be ignored and that south korea will indeed move away from being a de facto moratorium country by changing its law and becoming a de jure moratorium country.
in writing. – congratulations to the south korean constitutional court for upholding the death penalty. they intend to retain the death penalty for the worst criminal offenders. for example, for a mr kang ho-soon, who has reportedly confessed to killing seven women. the justice ministry has recently released figures that show more than 60% support for the death penalty. if a similar question were asked in britain it would produce at least the same result. in british prisons we have various assorted serial killers, rapists, child-murdering paedophiles, necrophiles and cannibals serving life sentences. the last example just last week was that of pervert peter chapman who lured an innocent 17-year-old victim, ashleigh hall, to her death and was sentenced to 35 years. this is an inadequate sentence. he and his kind should be executed. this would also save millions of pounds every year currently wasted on keeping such criminals in prison for life that could be better spent on the old and the sick. so well done south korea: go on executing your worst criminals.
mr president, on 11 march, at the debate on arctic policy, with a quarter of my allocated time still left, my microphone was switched off by the alde/liberal democrat member in the chair. this is almost without precedent. mr president, i have already sent you a letter – to which i have not received an answer – and i would like to ask you under which rule the microphone was switched off and why it was relevant to apply this rule. i was simply making legitimate – and indeed valid – political comments with which the alde chair disagreed. this is why the microphone was switched off. if the european parliament censors political comment, it ceases to be a parliament.
madam president, we feel that the draft council conclusions that we have all seen leaked this week could spell a very real danger for the european union. the conclusions talk about a timely exit from exceptional support measures. what does that mean in practice? we saw from the ecofin conclusions last week that they want to see a withdrawal of labour market support measures from the end of 2010. in december, council talked about the need for all member states to return to the stability pact criteria by the end of 2013. we feel that timetable is hopelessly optimistic. if we follow that prescription of a rigid return to the stability pact criteria by the end of 2013, it will be a recipe for huge cuts in public spending and public provision, unemployment will rise, tax takes will be reduced, and we will enter a period of sluggish growth that could lead to a real reduction in the economic potential of the european union for many years to come. it is a recipe for disaster. what we need instead is a smart balance between responsible fiscal policy on the one hand and continued labour market support on the other. we need a sustained social and sustainable exit strategy. the danish labour institute has produced figures today. they say that, if the emergency exit strategies agreed by 20 member states with the commission are followed, an additional 4.5 million european citizens will needlessly be in the unemployment queues by the end of 2013. that can be avoided. we have to avoid it. one of the calls we are making, therefore, is for a two-year moratorium on withdrawal of support measures. incidentally, this week we are also proposing a new european mechanism for financial stability. i hoped president barroso would still be here because i wanted to say that we would not mind at all if he stole our ideas and presented them as a recommendation to council tomorrow.
madam president, the spring summit is supposed to be the energy summit. had the copenhagen conference ended with a global agreement, we would already be discussing the technical details of moving to a 30% emissions reduction, and we must still do so. firstly, because the level of ambition agreed at the 2007 spring summit translates to a much higher than 20% reduction in today’s economic circumstances. just last week nobuo tanaka, the executive director of the deeply cautious international energy agency (iea), told meps that the iea’s 2009 world energy outlook predicts a 23% reduction in eu emissions and that 30% would represent a good target. secondly, if we are serious about achieving up to a 95% target by 2050, then the road map requires a cut of at least 30% by 2020. and, last but not least, it is only the transformation of the eu into a sustainable low carbon and resource efficient economy which will ensure european economic recovery and job creation. green jobs lie at the heart of the eu 2020 strategy. therefore, the council should back commissioner hedegaard and recognise that the conditions are now right to move to a 30% target, and the council should recognise that the cheapest and easiest way to make that further cut is through energy efficiency and, specifically, a binding energy efficiency target. eu leaders need to deliver as clear a message at this 2010 spring summit as they did in spring 2007.
madam president, i would like to make the point that you could not make this up today. almost every speaker here has discussed greece – the crisis in greece – and yet mr barroso said at the beginning that it is not even on the formal agenda for the two days at the european council. that is incredible. the whole world is watching every day what is going on here. the truth of the matter is that you are again trying to hide the fact that this project is not working. it is rapidly failing. we have already seen the good people of germany saying that they are not happy with the situation. but should it not be for the people of greece to have their say, not the dictators in this place? surely it should be for the good people of greece perhaps to have a referendum on whether they should be in the euro. it is their case. it is their cause. i am sickened by what i have heard today from many. it is a self-centred opinion for those other member states, looking after themselves. greece is the problem at the moment. i feel it will go from greece to spain and then portugal and italy and so on. the rollercoaster will start. mark my words: the problem is here to stay.
madam president, the troubles of greece and the eurozone should not be seen as an exception. a single currency for such a large, economically heterogeneous region of the world is self-evidently problematic. the value of a currency should reflect the condition of a state’s economy. when the economy thrives, the value of the state’s currency will tend to rise. when an economy falls into recession, the value of the currency will tend to fall. the state of the economy of greece requires a depreciation of its currency. if it had experienced that depreciation, it would have benefited from a tourist boom. the euro is not a solution to the economic problems of the world. it is the problem. the difficulty for greece is that, if it pulled out of the euro now, it would find that the fall in the value of its reverted currency would multiply its foreign debt. it is truly imprisoned in the eurozone. this should be a warning to countries outside the eurozone. join it at your peril. once inside, you will be locked in for ever.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think many of us should welcome any initiative that takes power away from the european union and other political governments and devolves power closer to the citizen. in one respect, i would like to make a request for more flexibility. why should we predefine the issues on which citizens can raise an initiative? if they want to raise an issue, let us be held accountable and let us give our view on whatever we think. if, for example, it is on the place where parliament should sit, we should respond. why should we avoid the issue? let us tackle what the citizens are asking us head-on. there is one issue that i would like to make clear, and that is transparency. it is going to be difficult for any individual, or group of citizens, on their own to collect the required number of signatures. therefore, you might see a number of organisations organising the collection of these signatures. they should be transparent about their funding, so that you do not get organisations who hijack the process to basically request more funding for initiatives they believe in. let it truly be an initiative of the citizens and not of civil society organisations and ngos.
mr president, this is an instrument that has huge potential and could deliver an important democratic signal to europe. when i think of my own country, if you want to get forward a legislative initiative in the uk, you have to find a member of parliament, they have to be lucky enough to win an annual ballot or lottery, and then it is likely to get talked out by the government of the day. so, i think we are about to deliver something very important and very exciting into the hands of europe’s citizens. that makes me proud, but it has to be user-friendly, accessible and credible, and that means we will have to be reasonably strict about it being within eu competence and adhering to human rights at the outset. we will have to be able and want to give support to promoters to meet the technical requirements. most importantly, parliamentarians should be prepared to act together with initiators of an initiative. this does not compromise our rights. it is something that we can join hands with citizens over, but they must direct their message to the commission. we can help, and that way we can establish together a real european democracy.
mr president, the use of the referendum – direct democracy – is not an exotic version of democracy. it is the original form – government by the people and not government on behalf of the people. so perhaps we should be grateful to the eu for introducing this. i think not. the eu only likes democracy when it can manage it and arrange for a result that it wants. we have heard that the power to call such a referendum will be limited by mischievous provisions, such as the eu’s competence and the eu’s own version of human rights, which, in reality, means political repression, limitation on freedom of speech and even on freedom of thought. one final point is that democracy means government by the people – an identifiable and cohesive unit – and not government by an arbitrary collection of persons. mass migration has made this difficult to achieve. europe as a whole has become even less of a single people than it might otherwise have been. nevertheless, it is better than nothing, and we might, at least, demonstrate that this initiative was a hollow promise.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the fate of the people of tibet and their remarkable buddhist culture remains uppermost in the minds of those of us in this house who believe in human rights. since the communist forces of the people’s republic of china (prc) invaded 61 years ago, tibetans have faced a systematic suppression of their unique way of life. the mass migration of han chinese and the arrival of the high-altitude railway at lhasa have further consolidated beijing’s hold on tibet. meanwhile, the dalai lama, from his indian exile, continues his peaceful campaign to highlight the situation faced by his people. uighur jihadists have also exploited recent unrest in tibet to foment their own violence against the chinese government. tibet should be given the maximum possible autonomy and we know that this is possible under the ‘one country, two systems’ mantra that applies not just to hong kong but also to macao, so why not tibet? beijing will undoubtedly dismiss our concerns in this parliament as an unwarranted intrusion into their internal affairs, but a fresh and more relaxed approach to tibet by the prc could well pay dividends for china’s internal security as well as its external image in the world. i would also like to add my voice to those who deeply regret today the fact that there is no presence from the council or from the rotating spanish presidency, or that the high representative for foreign affairs is not present.
madam president, tibet is a beautiful country and its people are devout, they are patient and they are oppressed – probably the most oppressed by the chinese in that whole region. i think that the debate this evening has shown an extraordinary consensus of view around parliament on, for example, the appointment by the eu of a special coordinator for tibet. events push us towards making some decisions in this house. this week, google has abandoned china. we have the continuing problems of human rights in china, with the disappearance of the christian human rights lawyer, gao zhisheng. all these things highlight the attention we need to pay to china, and indeed tibet, and i would like to remark that, with the shanghai world expo opening in may, all people doing business in china should have regard to the united nations global compact for businesses, some 4 000 of whom have signed up to it. finally, can i just say that, if the eu will not appoint a special coordinator, i believe parliament should appoint a rapporteur for tibet.
madam president, i am increasingly concerned about the way local councils in my constituency in the north west of england are using car parking charges to top up their revenue. take the small town of congleton, for example, which is a local semi-rural community. the introduction of car parking charges will severely damage local industry and a fall-off in trade will result in a loss of revenue, forcing already hard-pressed smes into bankruptcy and possible closure. people are blaming the british government, some blame the unitary council and others point the finger at the town council but, as always, the dark hand of the european union lies in the background, for they are all working towards the framework set out in the eu’s european transport policy for 2010. you see, this is the genius of the eu: it is always one person removed. whether it is post office closures or fortnightly bin collections, the finger always gets pointed elsewhere and the corruptive influence of brussels does not appear on the radar.
madam president, i come from the west midlands, and 20% of the west midlands is classified as green belt. the green belt has successfully protected the beauty of our countryside and blocked arbitrary urban sprawl. however, encouraged by the european union, the uk government has increased house building, endangering the green belt, which is particularly close to my heart because it is near to where i live on the meriden gap. this shows a lack of respect for our culture and traditions, but what do you care? since the uk joined the european union – or the european common market, before that – you have blatantly disrespected our culture and traditions, and there is nothing less to be expected of you.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the proposed 6.5% increase on the parliament budget for 2011 is yet another indication of how far this house has departed from the real world and the interests of its voters. how can we explain to our constituents in normal times, let alone in times of crisis, that the total cost they are paying for each one of us exceeds gbp 2 million per year? how can we tell them that if they want a high-level parliament – which some take pride in – this is the bill they have to pay? how do we explain to all those who are losing their jobs that we, the meps, need more staff because of the lisbon treaty? or that the officeholders in this parliament need an increase in their allowances because they work harder? the 15% of youth who are unemployed in the uk, or worse, the 45% of youth who are unemployed in spain, will not be able to see how this increase will help them get a job. many of them are fairly well educated. they only lack job opportunities. i, frankly, would not be able to respond if they asked this question. can somebody explain to my voters how the fact that this parliament has two seats, one in brussels and one in strasbourg, will help them pay the mortgage, feed their children and educate them, because this is a big part of the gbp 2 million cost that i spoke about before. as regards the commission, it is all very nice to talk about noble objectives such as investing in youth and education, promoting the study of languages and fostering innovation for economic development and job creation in europe, but the auditors’ report gives no comfort on how european union funds are being spent, nor do the outstanding commitments show the eu is very good at planning. no proposal for an increase in the budget should be tolerated… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i welcome this report on parliament’s budget guidelines and i welcome the discussion on what our priorities are to ensure that parliament can do its job. the initial report was perhaps understandably vague and general. however, the amendments at committee stage ensured we are now clear on what is important. the committee on budgets tried to balance the need to recognise our responsibilities following lisbon with the need to keep increased spending as low as possible and that is particularly important with margins and public finances being so tight. i am sure all members will take that point on board. that is why deciding our priorities in these guidelines is crucial and of course it is not just about spending money. it is also about looking for savings and it is about spending the money in the best possible way. therefore i am pleased that, for example, the need for an integrated knowledge management system that would bring together all the different sources of information for members and citizens is widely accepted. the analysis of europarl tv, to see if it is effective or not, is also welcome. an evaluation of a secretarial allowance and the global cost of employing more staff, including accommodation, i believe is also vital, as is a medium- and long-term building strategy for the parliament and other institutions which perhaps we should be working with much more closely than we are already. and of course there is always the difficult issue of the 20% threshold agreed so many years ago. i and the committee on budgets believe that any changes to that 20% should be the subject of a discussion between the committee on budgets and the bureau and eventually between all the different institutions. it should not be a unilateral decision. the s&d group have tabled a few more amendments to be voted upon tomorrow which we believe will improve the guidelines even further. one amendment points out the difficulty of putting all administrative expenditure under heading 5; another amendment calls for the early publication of the guidelines and estimates to ensure we can make our decisions in a proper and timely way. i hope tomorrow colleagues will support these and other amendments which are aimed at improving the guidelines. i would also hope that colleagues would recognise that, following the agreement of these guidelines, we will have to undertake difficult discussions on the estimates recently published by the secretary-general. only then will we begin to talk about our priorities and only then will we have the proper discussion to achieve the balance between functioning as a parliament and keeping our expenditure as low as possible.
mr president, the most important priority of any budget should be only to spend your own money. spending someone else’s without their permission is not budgeting, it is theft. british taxpayers are fleeced to the tune of gbp 6.4 billion in direct payments to the eu annually and we are still denied our referendum. taking that money, without a democratic mandate, is not a victimless crime. fifty thousand of our pensioners died of cold this winter because they could not afford to heat their own homes. our soldiers are killed by taliban bombs because we cannot afford blast-proof vehicles. thousands of cancer victims are denied expensive life-saving drugs. gbp 6.4 billion would right all those wrongs and still leave change to build eight new hospitals and 50 schools. there should be only one budget priority – slash spending and stop robbing britain. our pensioners, soldiers and cancer victims need the money more than the eu. to you, it is a budget. to them, it is a matter of life or death.
mr president, in times of economic stringency, faced with cuts in public spending right across european countries, all the eu’s institutions should be looking at how to cut costs and waste. parliament should be taking a lead. instead it continues in self-indulgent manner, with its costs and staff numbers constantly increasing with no thought of constraint. in any other organisation new priorities would be met by compensating reductions elsewhere, but not in this house it seems. meps bear the brunt of public blame but it is the overinflated bureaucracy, needless excesses and the redundant buildings which cost the money. how can you continue to justify parliament’s gbp 94 million annual self-promotion budget with eight million spent on the superfluous europarl tv and this bizarre scheme for a gbp 2 million house of european history? it is ridiculous that you maintain so-called information offices in every member state at an annual cost of 40 million when it is the job of 736 meps to answer any questions their constituents may have. it is a continuing scandal that this parliament has not demanded that member state governments stop the strasbourg circus once and for all. we need to send a clear message to our governments on this and save 200 million a year.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, can i too add my congratulations to mr scottà on his report. there is much in it that is to be commended. unfortunately i and my alde colleagues cannot support it as it currently stands without seeing one or two changes made to it. we cannot support paragraph 19, the so-called ‘wonky fruit’ paragraph. i believe it is nonsense for bureaucrats in brussels to be telling consumers that they can buy only straight bananas or straight cucumbers. surely it is up to consumers to make these decisions as to what they want to buy, so i hope that parliament will use its common sense and back the joint amendment that has been submitted by the greens and the ecr group to throw out the straight banana rules and leave consumers free to chose whether they want to eat bent or twisted fruit and vegetables or whether they do not. it is surely a decision for consumers. marianne fischer-boel, the previous commissioner, did decide to abolish the standards and i would hope that we would continue to support that decision. i would also like to see some changes in paragraph 16. i understand the call for an eu logo but, unless it means something to consumers and adds value for farmers, in my view it is a pointless exercise. it has to resonate with consumers and give some sort of return to the farming community. otherwise it is worthless. it is not worth pursuing it and i see no evidence to suggest that european consumers are looking for an eu logo. finally, in paragraph 62, there is some criticism here of private certification systems, which in scotland have been very successful. it seems to me a good thing for farmers on a voluntary basis to add value to their produce through quality assurance schemes, and we should be supporting them, not discouraging them. i hope we can see some changes to this report in the votes tomorrow, and if so we will be able to support it with the changes voted through tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would echo many of the comments of my scottish colleague – albeit not group colleague – george lyon. there is much in this report to admire and a couple of things where i think we could do a little better. we have brought forward a number of points and i will focus on two of them only. i and others believe that our consumers want to know where their food comes from. we believe that the provision of that information should be compulsory, so amendment 4, on precisely that point, replaces some rather weak wording with a much stronger requirement that, where we can actually have information on ‘place of farming’ labelling, it should be compulsory, because that is what our consumers want to see. i would also pick up on amendment 3 – as my colleague did – which deletes the attempt to reintroduce cumbersome and unworkable rules on the direct sale of fruit and vegetables to the consumer. we agreed only last year to repeal those rules and, while the consumers have not noticed much of a difference, our producers have noticed and still notice. any attempt to bring those rules back would essentially be another stick for the processors, the multiples and the supermarkets to beat the producers with, and the consumers would not benefit directly. so there is much in this report to like. i would echo mr lyon’s comments on the eu logo. i think that is more to do with the ambitions of this building rather than what our consumers want. if it does not resonate with the consumers we should not do it and we should replace it with a compulsory origin labelling scheme, which is what our consumers want. the amendments are constructive; i hope they will be successful and that colleagues will support them tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, can i also express my appreciation to the rapporteur for a very good report. i think there are very many good ideas in this report and i agree entirely with the rapporteur mr scottà when he talks about how important it is for european producers to add value and maximise the potential of their products. we must always strive to achieve the maximum potential of europe’s agri-food industry. this will ultimately serve to increase our competitiveness and strengthen the economy in rural areas. in this regard i am happy to see that mr scottà dealt with the future of the pgi and pdo systems. these instruments have proven popular with consumers and producers alike. however, i agree with the rapporteur that their management and application must be simplified. also, if we are serious about their value abroad we must ensure more protection from third countries. i would like to see more products from my own regions applying for a pgi and hopefully the commission will take on board some of the suggestions to simplify the application procedure so we will see more applications from my own region of northern ireland. however, i must point out that there are some elements of this report which i do not support. i am against the introduction of an eu quality logo. what i support is country of origin labelling. in effect i feel an eu logo would be meaningless, a waste of time and money and i feel the same way about the eu logo for organic produce. another concern for me are the amendments which were passed in the committee on agriculture and rural development calling for the reintroduction of the marketing standards of fruit and vegetables, which some meps are desperately trying to get back on the table. the fact is these rules were dismantled by the commission last year. i wholeheartedly supported this move and now we can let the market set its own standards. in this regard i would urge colleagues to support the plenary amendments tabled by my own group and other groups, which are very clear and simple, and to delete these elements.
madam president, thank you for the opportunity to speak on this very important point. consumers are, quite rightly, demanding that the food they purchase is safe, traceable and produced to a high standard. i would support a country of origin labelling system which promotes such standards and i believe that this will be widely acceptable to most consumers and to most within the industry. obviously promotion and marketing will be the hallmark of the success or failure of such a policy. we must take firm action against the potential counterfeiting of products which are wrongly labelled. i – like many colleagues in this chamber – would be against an eu logo. i feel it would be largely meaningless and would not be helpful to consumers. country of origin labelling, and even geographical indicators, are important because they promote locality, local heritage and conservation of local techniques, and they protect areas which rely on the production of a particular product. i come from northern ireland, a net exporter of agricultural products. therefore i want any labelling system to create a level playing field. anything that impacts on the export of products from countries like my own would have a detrimental impact on the industry. like other colleagues, i would support the quality assurance schemes that are available and encourage those as part of the general local indicator.
madam president, first, may i declare an interest? i am an egg producer. regulations must be honestly implemented to a common standard. that is essential. an eu-inspired crisis will shortly hit the uk egg industry. from 1 january 2012 the production of eggs in battery cages is banned. the ban does not apply to eggs from romania or bulgaria, and perhaps others, who have a temporary immunity under their accession treaties. as long as they are processed, these countries may legally export battery-cage eggs produced after the ban to the uk. uk egg producers who have invested very heavily in alternative systems will be expected to compete at a disadvantage against imported products which can be produced far more cheaply. i must insist first that these imported products are clearly labelled and secondly, and most importantly, that we introduce with immediate effect an additional number ‘four’, for eggs produced using colony systems. only then can consumers make an informed choice.
madam president, as we are all saying, the financial crisis has hit ordinary people very hard. that is why we have to make sure there are positive outcomes from the g20 employment ministers’ meeting, the first to be called, as has just been mentioned. i just hope we do have those positive outcomes. i am glad they are not going to concentrate just on the financial sector but will look at the social impact on people as well. we know there is record unemployment in many countries across the world. we have got to look at the real way of getting people into work – into real jobs. training programmes, for instance, have to be adequate to actually cover the needs at the moment. we ought to be looking at identifying best practice from countries that have already brought in various measures, and trying to roll that out to other countries, to try to help the most marginalised in society. work has been done in those other countries, so why are we not learning from them? we must make sure the core ilo conventions are actually implemented. we must make sure the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is implemented. we must make sure that those who are not protected at the moment are protected in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, coming from a non-eurozone member state, i am not sure whether my opinion holds much weight with my colleagues in this debate. currently many would claim that the eurozone problem is one which should be solved by eurozone members. however, the euro does not sit in isolation. it sits in the global market and has been affected by the global financial and economic crisis just as those outside the eurozone have. how we manage our states’ finances during the good years entirely affects how we are able to react and recover today. as many have pointed out, there is a reason why germany faces a very different government deficit to greece. while they may be united by a common currency, attitudes towards saving and spending vary considerably. joining a monetary union did not unite completely different cultures and traditions of fiscal policy. the uk perspective has a lot to say on differences in fiscal policy. we also bloated our public sector, spent and spent in the good years, borrowing more and more to create debts we could not even admit to when it looked as though the good times were gone forever, and creating a culture where a supposedly respected economist from the uk even last week stood up in front of one of our committees and claimed that governments can magic money. fundamentally, money to fund the public sector does not magically appear. it comes from tax receipts from the private sector. germany realises this. its policies in the recent past have focused upon using government spending and incentives to help stimulate the private sector. hence it is now in a strong position for recovery. ultimately the public sector has done its job in the crisis. it bailed out the banks and stepped up when the private sector failed. now it is the turn of the private sector to replenish the coffers. the downside of austerity measures, which will put hardworking people out of public sector jobs, must be turned into an upside for start-up companies, taking advantage of entrepreneurial spirit by reducing start-up costs for businesses so that they can create the profitable private sector that is required to dig all of our countries out of the holes we now find ourselves in. all of those countries that have practised unsustainable economic policies for the past few years – including my own – need to realise that change is essential and inevitable.
mr president, we have had a heavyweight week in committee with the president of the ecb, the president of the euro group and the nominee for ecb vice-president. we all agree that stronger surveillance of member states, with accurate statistics to enable early intervention, is a key requirement. work on this has started, including audit powers for eurostat, and the committee is impatient to assert its enhanced role to help. but there are indicators beyond the stability and growth pact that need respecting too. greater fiscal coordination linked to macro-economic stability is an option. but this has been tried, of course. remember the row in 2001 over the ecofin warning to ireland during a time of fiscal surplus. so we know the lesson: exerting discipline in times of surplus is even harder than policing deficit. and, just like in the financial markets, failure to do so ends in crisis. on imbalances between member states, the focus should be on loss of competitiveness, often hand in hand with foot-dragging on the single market and failure to address structural reforms, including pensions. this, too, does not necessarily have a deficit trigger. and finally as mr scicluna said, liquidity provision by the ecb has been a valuable tool through the crisis, but it has not been passed on to the real economy. often it has simply been reinvested in assets bearing higher interest. and i dare say some of these were even recirculated on repo to the ecb. no doubt in some quarter such activity is even viewed as deserving of a bonus. so i say: should we really listen to the pleas of such banks on new capital adequacy implementation dates?
mr president, i appear to have been living in some sort of parallel universe here, hearing about the success of the euro. let us bring it all down to earth just a little bit shall we? unemployment, youth unemployment in the iberian peninsula and many eurozone countries is chronic. it has been at 30-40% for years. nothing to do with the crisis at all. a complete disaster. gdp per capita in the usa is miles ahead of the european union. gdp in the pacific rim is miles ahead of the gdp in the union. no, the euro has not been successful at all. it is already failing. it is already crumbling before our eyes. just look at some economic basics. there is no lender of last resort, which is why we have this greek crisis and a portuguese crisis round the corner. there is no lender. this is impossible in global, in currency management, whether it is an optimal currency zone or not. there is no coordinated fiscal policy so it is doomed to failure and it is failing as we speak. let me just remind everybody here about something else if i may. there are two sorts of people: wealth creators, those people that go out and work in the private sector and create wealth, and there are the others who spend wealth, which are politicians and bureaucrats and there are too many of us. far too many of us. we are the monkey on the economies’ back and, until these currency zones start cutting down public sector spending, it is going get worse and worse and worse.
mr president, the rapporteur, mr scicluna, said that the ecb had tried to expand liquidity, but that liquidity had not been passed on by the banks to their customers. that is true outside the eurozone as well as inside it. my party is pleased that the uk remains outside the eurozone. a state’s currency must reflect the condition and needs of its own economy and not the average needs of 27 different economies. however, keeping our own currency is only part of the answer. the central problem is that credit creation and distribution is in the hands of private companies – the commercial banks – and that is true outside, as well as inside, the eurozone. the function of credit creation – in effect money creation – must be removed from the hands of private companies. extra spending power, when it is needed – either to distribute existing or imminent growth or to finance large infrastructure projects – must be created by the government and spent into circulation, not created by the banks and lent into circulation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to move an oral amendment which would become paragraph 7a (new). it is signalled on the voting list and my understanding is that it has the support of the political groups co-signing this resolution. it becomes the consequence of paragraph 7. so the new paragraph 7a would read: ‘hence, calls once again on the commission to develop a comprehensive european strategy for roma inclusion as the instrument for combating social exclusion and discrimination of roma in europe’.
mr president, i just wish the house to know that i was the original rapporteur on the decision on frontex and i recommended that we adopt this because of the exceptional measures that are necessary to deal with intervention and rescue at sea, especially in the southern mediterranean. the committee did not back me and therefore i removed my name from this report, and i will be recommending to the house that they reject the resolution that is now before them. we need an absolute majority of 369 for it to be adopted, but i would recommend that the house reject the resolution that we are about to vote on.
just for the sake of clarity, if you vote against this you are supporting the measure that enables interception at sea. if you vote for this, you are not. it is pure clarity.
mr president, while i deplore discrimination against any group in society on whatever grounds, i cannot support this resolution. however, this resolution seeks to place the responsibility for fighting discrimination into the eu context whereas i would argue that attitudes and approaches in member states are so varied that the interests of minority groups would be better addressed by member states and particularly by those member states who do not share the ideal of tolerance and equality that we british take for granted. i am aware, for example, that one italian mep, a member of the efd group, has been prosecuted for taking part in a vigilante raid in which he set fire to the belongings of an immigrant. this is unacceptable. please do not associate the british people with such behaviour by suggesting that minority groups in our country need the same levels of protection as the same poor soul that i have just referred to.
mr. president, let me say it's a pleasure to see you back in the chair. mark twain observed that, when all you have is a hammer, everything starts to look like a nail. the european union is very good at spending money at spending other peoples money. it was, i think, milton friedman who observed that there are two kinds of money in the world: there is your money and there is my money. we are much more careful with the latter than with the former. that explains what is happening in europe today. all of the member states are looking for budget reductions. in greece there is a public sector cut of around 10% being proposed, in ireland more than 7%, germany is looking at raising the retirement age, spain your country is looking for savings of 2% of gdp, but our budget here in the european union continues to rise inexorably. why? why? because there is no link in the european union between taxation, representation and expenditure so there is no external constraint from the taxpayers. it was too much spending that got the world into this mess too much spending by individuals, too much spending by corporations and too much spending by governments. if, instead of spending these trillions on yet further aggrandisement of our debt, if we had given that back to the people in tax cuts, think what a stimulus effect that would have had.
mr president, may i also thank mr scottà for the work in this important report. i want to refer specifically to amendment 4, which asks for the maximum amount of information to be made available to the consumer. it also supports the introduction of comprehensive and compulsory legislation for ‘place of farming’ labelling. whilst these are laudable aims, i believe the amendment is too restrictive and would perhaps be better as a voluntary piece of information. in northern ireland we rely heavily on the ability to export produce to the rest of the uk and other european countries. this amendment has the potential to affect northern ireland’s ability to sell products in certain markets where currently there is no difficulty, and i feel that it is important that new labelling does not create barriers which prevent trade between different member states. whilst amendment 4 poses some difficulty, i recognise the important work of the report and i recognise the importance of producing traceable, high-quality and safe products.
mr president, in principle i have no problem with the idea of quality logos. we see quality logos in a number of areas of our life. just so long as this is not being used as an excuse to override the choices of the consumer. if food does not meet certain size restrictions or aesthetic restrictions, we should not be throwing it away, throwing it onto the heap, as we see happen with 30% of european agricultural produce that is often wasted because it does not meet strict european standards. we should also not be using our quality standards as an excuse to ban imports from farmers in developing countries, throwing those farmers into poverty, and then taking our taxpayers’ money to throw at corrupt governments when the farmers fall into poverty. surely, rather than quality marks and gestures like this, we should be trusting the market, we should trust the consumers and we should trust the people.
mr president, i voted against paragraph 7 of this report and i was disturbed to see, yet again, this parliament using a report of this nature to covertly introduce the right to abortion and also the linkage of sexual and reproductive health to that of public health in developing nations. it is not for this place to determine whether access to abortion is a right or not. it is a matter for national governments to legislate. i, and the vast majority of my constituents in northern ireland, remain firm in the belief of the right to life of the unborn child.
mr president, it was predictable, perhaps inexorable, that the european union would leap on the financial crisis in greece in order to advance its well-laid plans for the harmonisation of fiscal policy. we have seen repeated calls for a european debt agency, for a european monetary fund, for pan-european taxation, so as not to have to go to the national electorates for a bail-out. mr van rompuy and the other commissioners are, as honest federalists, exactly agreeing with the case that was made by british sceptics, which was that you cannot have monetary union without fiscal and economic union. i think it was john maynard keynes who wrote ‘he who controls the currency controls the country’. i promise that is the only time i am going to quote keynes approvingly. in fact, let me give you a higher and better authority even than john maynard keynes. i refer you to the gospel of st matthew, chapter 22. i am sure you will remember this. our lord is asked whether it is proper to pay taxes to rome. he says: ‘“why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites? show me the tribute money.” and they brought unto him a penny. and [jesus] saith unto them, “whose is this image and superscription?” they say unto him: “caesar’s”. and saith [jesus] unto them: “render therefore unto caesar the things which are caesar’s; and unto god the things that are god’s”’. now i am not arguing that our lord was on one side or the other of the debate about the euro. the point is that, when looking for the supreme symbol of temporal authority, the absolute sign of sovereignty, it is the coin! and so we have seen that the euro leads to common economic government. thank heaven we had the foresight to keep the pound.
mr president, when you look at this report, you see many of the old, tired phrases about how the developing world is suffering as a result of the economic crisis. clearly there are people who will be suffering as a result of the economic crisis in these countries, but quite often they are not necessarily the people we want to help. quite often they are the governments who are worried about their aid budgets being cut because, with less aid money coming to them, it is more difficult to keep corrupt and inefficient governments in power. when i was in africa last year talking to many centre-right politicians, they complained to me that aid budgets actually keep corrupt governments in power and it makes it more difficult to improve economic and political governance in those countries. but let us look at some of the things that we propose. we talk about more investment in developing countries – and everyone would agree to that – yet we have a proposal going through this house, the alternative investment fund managers directive, which will reduce investment in developing countries. we talk about helping developing country farmers, yet we continue, even in today’s budget, to vote for more resources for the common agricultural policy that does so much to damage farmers’ livelihoods in developing countries. let us really tackle the real source of the problems in these countries – bad governance, and protectionism in the eu.
mr president, i voted against this report because it is a silly report. it is an irrelevant report. so: all the assets are in all the stock exchanges in new york, london, tokyo, frankfurt, etc. you will now collect about usd 6 trillion worth of capital. if you sell all the properties which are extra-legal, the slum-valued properties which are not part of the legal system in the developing countries, you will achieve usd 7 trillion. there is a great deal of capital waiting in the developing countries which is outside the legal structures of those countries, from the slums to those millions of businesses you see on the side of the roads which are not part of the formal economy. secondly, if you ask how much money is coming out of the developing countries every year through the financial systems of the world, it is usd 800 billion. why are we not working to keep that capital in those countries making those countries richer? no, what did we go and do just now? we voted for a tobin tax to hammer already weakened financial institutions in the west and give the money to a whole bunch of people who will probably steal it.
in writing. − we approved of the proposal that the existing rules relating to the importation of live animals, meat and meat products should remain in force until replaced by measures adopted under the new regulatory framework. whilst we should prefer such laws to be the laws of each member country rather than of an eu superstate, there must be laws covering such matters. however, the report also provided for a list of third countries or parts of countries from which member states shall authorise importation of bovine animals, swine and fresh meat. this will involve the united kingdom being given a legal obligation to allow imports from these countries. this will involve competition for our farmers and a further erosion of sovereignty. as a result of this pairing of good and bad proposals, we decided to abstain.
in writing. − we are not in favour of the european union being responsible for help to redundant workers (or for anything else). we would oppose money being allocated to the european globalisation adjustment fund as we would oppose money being allocated to all eu funds. we believe that member states should help their own redundant workers. however, the european globalisation adjustment fund has money that has already been allocated to it and that money has come from member states. if it were proposed that money from the egaf should be allocated to redundant workers in britain, we would vote for it to be allocated and we would be criticised if we did not. we must therefore vote for the fund to be used appropriately for other member states. nevertheless, we intend to ensure that future money will be allocated to british redundant workers and, if we find that they are not eligible, we shall vote against all future mobilisations of the fund.
in writing. − i and my ecr group colleagues agree with much of this report and we remain wholeheartedly supportive of providing equal rights and opportunities for all people regardless of race, religion, gender or sexual orientation. however, whilst we fully support the integration of the roma people within the european union we do have serious misgivings with regard to the involvement of the european union on issues which we believe to be the preserve of individual nation states, such as access to health care, education, employment and housing.
in writing. − we are obviously in favour of frontex exercising surveillance beyond the territorial waters of border eu states. there is contradictory legal advice about whether or not it already has such power. however, this resolution imposed rules and guidelines that would impede this function. in particular, they insisted not only that frontex should rescue illegal migrants thought to be in danger at sea (a self-evidently moral action to take) but also to impose a duty to grant the rescued illegal immigrants asylum. we believe that such rescued illegal immigrants should be taken to the country from which they are believed to have embarked or their home country and left there.
in writing. − i and my ecr group colleagues agree with much of this report, including improving budgetary efficiency, simplifying the application procedures for eu funds, as well as prioritising the completion of the 2020 strategy. however, we do have serious misgivings with regard to references to an eu social pillar, an ambitious social agenda, a harmonised immigration policy and restrictions upon an agricultural single market, and stress that areas of education and military and defence are the preserve of member states.
in writing. − whilst we are happy to see that common sense prevailed on misshapen fruit and vegetables, the british labour meps still had some concerns with the scottà report and have therefore voted against it. we are against any attempt to bring in an eu quality logo which would only be available to eu produce, since this would discriminate against farmers from third countries and would not be in line with our development objectives. the eplp is in favour of an eu-wide organic label, but the commission is already aware of parliament’s support for this, and other parts of the report are of sufficient importance to vote against the whole report.
in writing. − we opposed this motion because it purported to place a responsibility on european countries for the plight of the undeveloped third world, rather than placing the responsibility on those countries themselves. furthermore, it looked forward with relish to the creation of various forms of political and economic world governance.
in writing. − i and my labour colleagues strongly support the work of the rapporteur edward scicluna. i particularly draw attention to the emphasis his report places on the importance of economic growth as the best means to tackle excessive deficits. this is a clear response to those who argue for an undue focus on short-term cuts to expenditure, which could in fact jeopardise longer-term growth. deficits must be steadily reduced over the coming years, as the economy recovers from the effects of the financial crisis, but growing our way out of the crisis is the only effective option to secure long-term fiscal sustainability and protect citizens.
in writing. − i welcome this report by my colleague edward scicluna, who has presented a well-considered view and indeed worked hard to get the resolution down to just one vote. in this respect there has to be much in the way of compromise and this tends to disguise the differences which also exist. i am particularly concerned that, at a time when questions are being asked about the role of the federal reserve bank of the usa, similar searching questions are missing from our debate concerning the ecb. of particular concern is the relevance of micro-supervisory oversight and whether the ecb by dint of its role in the recent crisis is automatically qualified to be involved so directly in this endeavour or whether it will carry with it significant reputational risk.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the crisis in greece of course dominated the headlines following the european council but the meeting itself also took important first steps in the europe 2020 initiative. my group, the ecr, wants the euro area to succeed for those who choose to be its members. it is now vital for the european economy as a whole that any instability does not damage trade and the wider european economy. of course not all our member states have yet chosen or will ever choose to join the single currency. the current crisis illustrates why many, including the british conservative party, reject membership of the euro with the inevitable one-size-fits-all interest rate policy and exchange rates set by factors that may have nothing to do with domestic economic realities. certainly the current crisis has revealed some of the underlying problems with the present design of the eurozone. however, in seeking to address these problems, the crisis must not be used as a pretext for extending further the powers of the european union. we have already heard dangerously loose talk about the need for more european economic governance. such a centralisation of power in brussels is not the solution and would not be acceptable. greece needs our support and encouragement but asking foreign taxpayers, especially in countries outside the eurozone, to pick up the bill is difficult. ultimately of course only the greeks themselves can sort out the problems of the greek public sector debt and we wish them well in their efforts to find their way out of the crisis. turning to the europe 2020 initiative, we welcome the first tentative steps taken by the council. we must never forget, as we deal with the current economic and financial crisis, that we were facing enormous economic challenges even before the crisis struck, such as the growth of china and the far east and our increasing energy insecurity. our long-term economic prospects depend upon a thorough modernisation of the european economy so that we can thrive in the increasingly competitive global marketplace. we do not support all aspects of the initiative. some areas where innovation is required, such as agriculture, have been largely ignored, but we strongly support the broad thrust of the programme and the continued development of the single market in particular. we believe that successful competitive businesses are the central pillar of our economic life; they provide economic prosperity, essential to create jobs and to generate the resources on which so much else depends. there is a danger that, whilst we all talk about reducing burdens on business, we constantly vote here for specific items doing the opposite, so all the institutions of the european union, including our own, must play their part. the commission needs to avoid making proposals which will be a burden on industry and we in this parliament must show responsibility and exercise self-restraint. many targets set as part of europe 2020 will be reviewed at the june meeting. let me close today by expressing my hope that support in the european council for economic freedom and reform will be substantially reinforced in the weeks ahead – i hope also, perhaps, helped by a new conservative government in the united kingdom.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we are in the presence of a great man today – the president of europe. he is a man so important that he is beyond criticism, beyond reproach; he is the king of the modern political class. he is the modern-day zeus, and he intends to rule us from mount berlaymont – and woe betide anybody that questions his authority or questions his dignity, as they will face severe punishment! indeed, in my case, the last time we met and i had one or two things to say, parliament imposed the maximum possible fine! i am told that if i say anything which upsets you, then the microphone will be cut off. well, what price free speech, what price democracy? you have come back to us today and now, with the approval of mr sarkozy and angela merkel, you are the head of a new economic government for 500 million people and you have launched your 10-year plan – your wish list. i just wonder whether you have remembered what happened to the last 10-year plan, which was launched in 2000. it was launched in this parliament to much acclaim and it was a total and utter crippling failure, even before the global recession hit. in fact, all centralised eu plans fail. just look at the disastrous, ruinous common fisheries policy. now your beloved euro has failed; it has failed politically at its first major hurdle. you were not able to come up with a plan at that summit, and you cannot bail out greece without the international monetary fund coming in to save, at least for the moment, your euro dream. and yet, mr van rompuy, your plan seems to be that we are losing, we are failing, but let us have more of the same; let us have more europe; let us have more failure! what really matters is the loss of democracy. you have not been elected. you are not accountable and there is no mechanism for the peoples of europe to remove you. it was zeus who kidnapped europa, and my fear is that you are kidnapping our democracy. you are only here because the lisbon treaty went through without the british people being given the referendum that they were promised. as far as we are concerned this is unfinished business. people fought and died so that we could be an independent self-governing democratic nation that was able to hire and fire its leaders. no one who believes in democracy would accept the post of president of the european union.
mr president, i want to address my comments to mr van rompuy as one chairman to another. i have noted, as chairman of the committee on the internal market, that the one thing that is clearly absent from the targets are any targets for the member states to complete the internal market, which should be the centre-piece of economic reform and growth. there are a few warm words about reducing bottlenecks, but i notice that the great flagship initiatives we heard about have been relegated almost to the bottom of mr van rompuy’s list. they have sunk almost without trace in this communiqué. why are we not focusing on things that we can actually get a grip on? we have a framework of rules in place. we are working on implementing those, which i am pleased about. however, i once again agree with my friend mrs berès: how about some competition between our institutions? my committee is taking more political action on completing the internal market than anything we have seen here today or anything we have heard from the council. i would invite mr van rompuy to come and meet my committee and to come and talk about some of our initiatives. we have mr monti’s report coming, and there will be a report from my committee. let us compete together, but for heaven’s sake let us get to grips with something on which we can really deliver, instead of having a whole lot of vague targets, which is what i see in this proposal.
mr president, my french is not very good – pardonnez-moi – but i do understand that the french word ‘gouvernement’ means government in english. i thought that was easy to understand. however, it does not seem to be easy for the british labour government or for president van rompuy. they seem to think it means governance, which is defined as the action or manner of governing. that is just dissembling, since the reality is that the eu council’s agreement to improve economic eu gouvernement means the action of ruling and directing the affairs of a state. the truth, then, is that the council has handed yet more powers over to the eu, including powers over the uk economy, which is the single most important issue to the british people today. when will people be told the truth? we are heading for an eu superstate, and britain will have to pay to rescue those in the euro area – even though it is not, thankfully, a member of the euro itself.
mr president, i should just like to thank everybody for signing written declaration 71 on breast cancer. most of you know that this is the leading cause of death across the eu of women aged between 35 and 59, and we want member states to set up nationwide screening programmes and breast cancer specialist units among other things. i hope that the signing of this written declaration will be another step forward to help to make sure that we have eu-wide action to stop the dire consequences of breast cancer.
mr president, i would like to concur with the gentleman over there. we know there is an issue regarding air travel – of course we do; we are not silly – but i cannot understand why it has taken until tonight to come to this conclusion. we have all arrived here today, there are many people in the chamber, and there are many staff. the costs to the taxpayer run into millions of pounds for us all to be here, and yet you decide to cancel it at a moment’s notice. i think it is absolutely abysmal that you have done that. i think there are enough people here to vote. we know the difficult conditions, but this is supposed to be a parliament. you have turned round now and said we are not going to vote, but you can come along and discuss things, debate things, which quite often means absolutely nothing, and then, when it comes to voting, we are told we cannot. i think the taxpayer back in the uk will be absolutely appalled by this. we have trouble in the uk with finances, we are cutting services, we have a general election, we are talking about saving money and yet we are wasting money hand over fist over here. surely the time has come for this place to be shut down.
mr president, thanks to the law of unintended consequences, moving this week’s votes to 6 may – that is the day of the general election in the united kingdom – means that many, if not all, of the british meps from all parties and delegations will not be here on that day, which will also distort the final outcome. could you move it to wednesday 5 may instead of thursday 6 may please?
mr president, thank you for letting me speak again. in view of what has been said here now, at very short notice, i would urge you to look again at that matter of voting at the next session on 5 and 6 may. it is quite likely that most of the meps from the uk will not be present. it is our general election on 6 may. the whole country will not be here. you are going to discuss things which will not represent the united kingdom. i urge you to perhaps look at 4 may – bring it back a few days – because, if you deny that vote, you are going to deny the united kingdom a chance to oppose or support measures... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i welcome the debate tomorrow on the air crisis because we need to remember that this has an impact not just on this parliament, but on individuals and businesses across europe. this is at a time when europe, or most of europe, is recovering from a deep recession. the uk, like many other countries – not all – is recovering from that recession, and that is due to the government intervening when the market failed and not standing on the sidelines as some would have us do. there are many economic figures coming out in the uk in the next few weeks and i believe many of them will be positive. that is because the government has intervened. i think it is important for eu institutions also to intervene in difficult economic times. all the institutions of the eu should in the future make sure our budgets are aimed at helping individuals and businesses come through difficult economic times and to plan for the recovery.
madam president, it was actually two speeches back, but i would like to ask the gentleman over there who was advocating eu intervention how he thinks the eu should intervene against volcanic ash.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the rapporteur is right to refer to the democratic deficit. the elitist construct that is the eu has a democratic deficit that has increased, is increasing and, after the lisbon treaty, will increase still further. i have to say that i am bemused that the rapporteur, despite his eloquence, sees article 290 as a solution. our interpretation of article 290 is that this gives the commission the opportunity to supplement or amend legislation. such an opportunity is far-ranging and wide-sweeping and is open to almost unlimited interpretation. we would argue that the safeguards against the inappropriate use of the powers thereby delegated to the commission are clearly insufficient. perhaps the rapporteur will comment in his response as to why they are sufficient. this therefore amounts to a further transfer of power from the elected parliament to the unelected commission, whatever the lisbon treaty purports to say. we have always maintained, and continue to maintain, that the lisbon treaty lacks democratic legitimacy largely because a referendum was promised in the uk by all three establishment political parties, and all three establishment political parties spectacularly reneged on that promise. article 290 is therefore a product of the illegitimate lisbon treaty. it increases the democratic deficit – i would be interested to hear from the rapporteur why it does not – and it should therefore be opposed.
madam president, i would like to raise an issue which is closely linked to aviation safety and which underlines the need to make the operation of the eu blacklist as effective as possible. in december 2008 the council finally adopted the eu code of conduct on arms transfers. this code controls the export from the eu of military technology and equipment. however, a concern persists that not all eu arms-exporting countries are abiding by the code and that european arms are still being supplied to conflict zones. but one measure has been shown to be very effective in curtailing the illegal supply of arms, and that is the eu aviation blacklist. a swedish study in 2008 showed that the air cargo operators who are involved in arms transfers to conflict zones are the same operators who habitually violate air safety standards. maybe it is not surprising that dodgy operators with a lax approach to safety should also be revealed as dodgy operators as far as the cargoes they carry are concerned. but the happy consequence of this link is that the measures to ensure strict control of aircraft, measures which are designed to protect european citizens, are also helping to protect the citizens of other continents, especially africa, from the destruction that takes place when conflicts are fuelled by abundantly available small arms and light weaponry. so i would ask commissioner piebalgs as development commissioner if he could add his personal weight to the commission’s efforts to ensure that the blacklists are implemented effectively and systematically.
mr president, i want to refer to a piece of legislation with which the commissioner – who was energy commissioner for five years – will be closely acquainted. that is the laying hens directive, which requires the animal welfare standards of the cages in which egg-laying hens are kept to be upgraded by the end of next year. i thought this would cost thousands. in fact, in many commercial centres it costs millions as large-scale industrial equipment is involved. many countries have complied with the directive. many farmers have invested money to ensure that animal welfare standards are raised to the required level, but i do not think we are likely to get compliance across the entire european union by the end of next year. i want to know what action the commission will take, and what action it is initiating, to try and get compliance. the rapporteur has called for a ban on trade in eggs which do not comply with the legislation. i am not sure that one can do that. however, i want to know that the commission is being proactive in trying to ensure that member states and their farmers keep to raising these animal welfare standards and that there is a level playing field for all.
mr president, i just want to mention my home. i am lucky enough to live on the edge of the saddleworth moorlands, between the cities of manchester and leeds. it is the southern end of an area of peatland that stretches straight up from england into scotland. it is a very rare habitat across europe, but it is also a habitat that has been much denuded by 250 years of industrial pollution which have devastated the variety of species that it can support. that has been complemented by overgrazing, perhaps by sheep, and by fires. of course, as the peatland dries out, it releases global-warming gases. a huge potential supply of global-warming gas is being released from what should be a wonderful area. the royal society for the protection of birds is now trying to restore that habitat and to get the sphagnum moss that created the peatland to grow once again. the funding they require is not in the millions – it is in the tens of thousands or perhaps the hundreds of thousands. it is a small element that can contribute both to the restoration and encouragement of biodiversity and also the protection of this moorland habitat which ensures that these global-warming gases are contained within it. as we look at the reform of the common agricultural policy, this is something we must very much bear in mind.
in writing. – we should remember that 54% of farmed land in the eu currently falls into a lfa classification. the continuation of the lfa scheme is vital if we are to compensate farmers for providing public goods, avoiding land abandonment, assisting in promoting biodiversity and helping to support rural communities. the market neither rewards nor compensates farmers for these achievements in areas where farming is at a natural disadvantage. we must, therefore, ensure that further reform of the lfa system is adequately financed within the overall budget for cap and that the system used for classification is fair and non-discriminatory. in its initial communication, the eight biophysical criteria proposed by the commission to assess the classification of areas with significant natural handicaps were undoubtedly biased towards the warmer and dryer climates of continental europe. therefore, i was glad to see that amendments that mention ‘soil moisture balance’ and ‘field capacity days’ were passed at committee level. this is a first step in ensuring that countries in northern europe, such as the uk and ireland, are not discriminated against in the framework of a new classification system.
rapporteur. − mr president, commissioner, we are at the very early stages of the debate, which leads up to the common agricultural policy reform post 2012. in this report, i suggested some of the principles which should underlie the reformed common agricultural policy. it is clear that the agricultural industry needs to change. it will need to change in order to reflect both the challenges of the times in which we now live but more the times which are to come. those will be issues such as food security, market volatility, climate change, and the need to adequately meet the expectations for the delivery of public goods. it is clear, therefore, that the common agricultural policy has to change in order to reflect those challenges but it is also clear that the way we apply the common agricultural policy needs to change. in setting out these principles that should underlie the reformed common agricultural policy, i have deliberately not gone into detail; that will come in later reports. but what i have developed is two main themes. firstly, that the common agricultural policy needs to be simpler, fairer and more transparent and that, secondly, the culture of the common agricultural policy needs to change, that a future reformed common agricultural policy ought to be more outcome-driven and less burdened with excessive regulation. i have highlighted four ways in which we can reduce the bureaucratic burden on farm businesses. firstly, we should ensure that the requirements made of the industry are proportionate to the risk assessed. secondly, we could harmonise inspections standards and we should cut out the duplication of inspection standards and procedures required of the industry. thirdly, there could or should be greater scope for self-certification within the industry and, fourthly, we need to ensure that the penalties imposed on farm businesses are commensurate to the scale of the infringement rather than the current inappropriate flat-rate penalties, especially in those cases where infringements were not the fault of the farmer. in my view, one objective of the common agricultural policy should be to help and encourage the industry to adapt to these new challenges. to do that there is a need for a change of culture in the common agricultural policy. it does need to adopt a more flexible, lighter-touch approach. there needs to be greater consultation with the stakeholders of the industry and, in particular, in order to better assess the impact of proposed regulation. it also needs to be easier to interpret. the reformed common agricultural policy must be able to publicly demonstrate the industry’s delivery of public goods. it must find ways to reduce the cost to the industry of complying with its requirements and, finally, it must effectively and efficiently and fairly manage the industry. this report sets out a number of ways that that can be achieved.
mr president, as has already been said, no one could have predicted the recent events in iceland. the airline industry is having to cope with very unpredictable circumstances both in terms of the volcanic eruption and, of course, the general economic background. with this in mind, we should base such an extreme measure of shutting all european airspace on proper scientific evidence and, with the current technology available, make sure that disruption is minimal and information is communicated efficiently. in this respect, eurocontrol and national authorities have added to the frustration with their poor management of this crisis. continually pushing back the closure of europe’s airspace every six to eight hours has meant that passengers could not plan journeys by other means and airlines themselves have been kept waiting for progress. computer modelling and satellite technology are available to aid these situations but, even with all of this technology, we still seem to have been in a position of almost licking our finger and sticking it in the air to see which way the wind is blowing. at least, that is the way the public perceives it. this has been a disaster for all concerned. long-term prognosis, not decisions by knee-jerk bulletin, is what is required.
mr president, the ash cloud has caused stress and trauma for many thousands of travellers and financial loss to many businesses. indeed, many of our own colleagues from far-flung corners of europe have been left stranded this week. the presidency should be thanked for agreeing that it would be undemocratic to vote without them – all too often, those of us from further away feel that we are being brushed aside in the interests of central european alliances. the volcano has also reminded us that we are not masters of this planet and do not have the answers to all the questions. it is clear that we need a much better understanding both of volcanic ash and of volcanic gases, and research in this area should be encouraged. it has also reminded us of how addicted we have become to air transportation. we know we must reduce that dependency in the years to come. we should welcome investments in advanced communications systems for virtual meetings, as well as investment in high-speed railways. finally, plans to reduce unnecessary travel should be welcomed. that is clearly one area where parliament could lead by example.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, talking of programmes, let me remind you of the lesson of the 1992 programme: for the commission to achieve results, it needs to set one priority and focus on one policy at a time. the effort to establish the single market was a worthwhile objective which could be easily understood by all those involved – and, crucially, by the public – but since then all too frequently we have seen the commission launching initiative after initiative, regardless of whether europe was the appropriate forum or whether it could really deliver tangible benefits, in the futile hope that they would make it popular. that approach was wrong and it failed. we therefore welcome the new direction which has been developed by president barroso. the european economy is still in deep crisis, and only consistent action will change that situation. i do not simply refer to the immediate crisis triggered by the failure of the banking system, or the extra pressures now provided by transport emergencies. i mean the underlying crisis which has seen the european economy left behind by more competitive and innovative economies across the atlantic and in asia. we therefore strongly support the centre-piece initiative of this commission: the 2020 strategy. whilst we believe there are details to be added and changes which should be made, the broad thrust of the policy is correct. europe needs strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth which can deliver high levels of employment, productivity and social inclusion – hear, hear! this must be the overriding priority defining the commission. our future economic prosperity and all the benefits it can generate depend on successful businesses and entrepreneurs; they are the ones who create wealth and sustainable productive jobs, and that is the best anti-poverty policy yet invented. the commission must be their ally, not their adversary. we therefore welcome the commitments to relaunch the single market, extending it further, to emphasise smart regulation, to ensure that the implementation of rules is consistent and fair throughout the union, to reduce substantially the administrative burden and cut down on red tape and address bottlenecks, to share best practice in training, to modernise the labour market and to reduce barriers to trade. in taking a lead in developing a vibrant, dynamic european economy, president barroso will have our support. we do not, of course, like everything. we are concerned that some measures might result in infringements of the rights and responsibilities of member states, such as the concept of a citizens’ europe or some aspects of the stockholm programme. we are encouraged by the prospect of reform in the common agricultural and fisheries policies, but concerned this may result in more bureaucracy rather than a fair solution for our farmers and fishermen. finally, we do not agree that common initiatives undertaken by member states in the field of foreign affairs should be totally taken over by the commission rather than left to the council. the ecr was founded to uphold the principle of subsidiarity; we want a europe which focuses on its proper key tasks and delivers real benefits, and we are hopeful that president barroso and his commission – all of whom are here, one for each of us, today – seize the opportunity evident in much of the work programme presented to nurture a europe playing its part in shaping an economic recovery and can offer a foundation for our long-term prosperity in the difficult and challenging years ahead.
mr president, in the commission work programme for 2010 it was said that the european union must face up to long-term challenges such as globalisation and must regain competitiveness. the problem is that the eu has not faced up to globalisation: it has embraced it. it is allowing a flood of imports from developing economies with wage rates a fraction of those in europe. the only way in which we can possibly regain competitiveness would be to drive wage rates down to their levels. i am not, of course, even in favour of membership of the european union. however, even if i were in favour of it, i would accuse its masters of betraying the economic interests of its peoples. i would say that the eu is not so much a european union, as it is a global union trying to achieve the global mobility of all goods and services. i believe that sovereign nation states should rebuild their manufacturing bases and then protect their markets and the jobs of their nationals. however, my message is also for europhiles. europe, either as a whole or separately, will fail to protect its manufacturing and its agriculture from third world competition at its peril. globalisation must be resisted, individually or collectively, or it will destroy us all. the commission’s document refers to the alleged need to develop further legal immigration policies to alleviate the perils of demographic ageing. there is no doubt that ageing populations are a concern in many countries. however, we must examine why the problems occurred. many women pursue uninterrupted careers and refrain from having children out of choice – and that is their perfect right – but many others pursue careers because it is economically necessary for them. they work in order to pay the bills, not because they have a disdain for motherhood. there is no doubt that this development has had an impact on birth rates, which have been depressed artificially at the behest of economic forces. however, we do not have to take a laissez-faire approach to economic forces. economic intervention can change those economic forces and a change in those forces will bring about a corresponding change in family demographics. the idea that we can import large families from the third world as a substitute for unborn european children is based on a particularly pernicious and wrong-headed assumption, which is that we are the products of nurture and that third world cultures are like overcoats that can be taken off at the port of entry and replaced with a european cultural overcoat that can be issued with residence and citizenship papers. the children of such immigrants are allegedly as european as the indigenous population; they are not. distinctive cultures are made by distinctive peoples and not the other way round. we are not the product of our cultures: our cultures are the products of our peoples. replacing europeans with people from the third world will mean that europe will be replaced by the third world. europe is slowly but steadily being ethnically cleansed of europeans.
on behalf of the ecr group. – in march the european commission announced it would conduct another review of the working time directive, after the previous review fell. it was parliament’s insistence on scrapping the national opt-outs from the directive which led to the stalemate. as we will all recall, uk labour meps in the pockets of their trade unions voted to scrap the uk’s opt-out, despite instructions to the contrary from their own government. now that we have a further review and considering that many eu countries want their workers to have the choice to work more flexible hours, can president barroso confirm that this commission will propose a directive that respects national opt-outs from the 48-hour working week?
on behalf of the ecr group. – i understand that president barroso does not want to prejudge the outcome of the commission’s consultation. however, there are a number of people in the eu – not least the three million people in the uk who currently take advantage of the opt-out – who will be looking for a commitment from him that, during an economic downturn, his commission does not want to make it harder for people to work. i am afraid that commissioner andor did not give us that assurance at the time of his confirmation hearing, but i trust that president barroso will now.
president of the commission. − i am sorry, i did not follow the statements by the chairman of deutsche bank, and i cannot comment on something i am not aware of.
on behalf of the efd group. – because the financial crisis was a credit crisis and a banking crisis that took place and emanated from the large commercial banks – the royal bank of scotland, ikb, fortis and the like – do you accept that the alternative investment fund managers directive, as well as being highly damaging to the uk, is a misdirected and misguided regulatory initiative on the part of the commission that aims entirely at the wrong target?
president of the commission. − absolutely not. i think it is a very good initiative that aims precisely to restore some confidence in what is a very important sector of our financial markets. i think it is in the interests of the financial sector to have credibility. let us be honest and open about it. there is now a problem of credibility in the financial sector and it had its origin in, let us say, irresponsible behaviour of some major players in that sector, not only in britain, as you said, but in other countries in europe, apart from the situation that originated in the united states. we need a proper level of regulation. we believe that the regulation we have put forward is the appropriate balance and it does not aim at creating difficulties for the financial sector. on the contrary: it aims at building trust. the financial sector needs this kind of credibility to finance the economy.
on behalf of the efd group. – how will the aifm directive, aimed at alternative investment fund managers, restore confidence in the financial sector when the problem is with the big commercial banks? that is my question.
president of the commission. − i am sorry but i do not agree the problem is only with the big banks. in fact, the problem created in the united states was not created by big banks only. it was also created by non-commercial banks, by investment societies, by hedge funds as well. so we do not agree with that analysis that it was created by big banks. in fact, some of the big traditional commercial banks were not responsible for the crisis. there were many kinds of players that have some kind of responsibility for the mess, let us state it very clearly, that was created in the financial sector. we believe that an appropriate level of regulation is the best way to address the issue both for banks and for other kinds of instruments or operators in the market.
mr president, the european external action service will be responsible to the high representative. the role of the high representative, according to article 18, is to conduct the european union’s common foreign and security policy, as mandated by the council. the council, for all its faults, at least contains representatives of member states. however, influential voices among the political groups in this parliament are arguing for the commission to play a much more decisive part in the service. in particular, it is argued that the commission should provide at least 50% of the staff of the external action service and that the service should not be subject to influence from intergovernmentalism. i apologise for that word. it is not mine but i see it as a code for the council and the european council. furthermore, of course, the high representative is an ex officio vice-president of the commission. all this seems to point to the likelihood that, in reality, the eu’s foreign policy will be run by the commission and the idea that it is run by the high representative, with a mandate from the council, would be legal fiction. would you agree?
president of the commission. − i do not agree. we are not there. in fact, as you know, the creation of the institutional position of high representative/vice-president of the commission is one of the most important innovations of the lisbon treaty and the idea is to put together what typically we call intergovernmental competences and community competences. for the common foreign and security policy, it will remain basically intergovernmental: it is the prerogative of the member states. but there are other community competences that should not go now to the intergovernmental arm. it should be kept, of course, in the community method. so the high representative/vice-president of the commission is, as we say, usually double-hatted. she will have to put together, using the best of the synergies, those two competences. so there will be, of course, competences that she will be able to develop inside the commission, as vice-president of the commission, but working also hand-in-hand with the member states and with the council. i think that is the contribution to have more coherent and consistent external relations of the european union, to reinforce the defence of our interests and promote our values in the world.
i can see the internal consistency of what you are saying as a euro-integrationalist, which i am not. but, in fact, what you are suggesting is that we should actually go beyond the lisbon treaty, which is bad enough, and almost cut out the council which, as i say, for all its faults, at least contains representatives of nation states.
last week the european climate foundation launched its ‘roadmap 2050’. this plan shows three pathways by which the european union could cut its co2 emissions by 80 percent by 2050, in line with our kyoto aspirations. we could do it at little more than the cost of business as usual. we could become almost entirely self-sufficient in energy resources and we would see a significant net job creation through the decarbonisation of our economy. but it can only be done at european level. will the commission embrace this road map? will it endeavour to give the european union a new élan in proposing the necessary policy measures? given the opportunities for job creation, will you, president barroso, use the idea to galvanise the member states into the necessary action?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, high representative, i congratulate mr salafranca sánchez-neyra on an excellent report on the eu’s strategic relationship and partnership with latin america. after the 2004 enlargement to central and eastern european countries, the eu has understandably refocused the cfsp towards the east, i.e. russia, central asia and china, but nevertheless trade between latin america and the eu continues to grow rapidly. so this largely democratic region with whom we have much in common must not be forgotten. later this year, brazil will mark another stage in its emergence as a world economic and political giant when the country holds a presidential election and president da silva steps down after his maximum two terms. brazil, along with mexico, is now designated as an eu strategic partner. colombia is also a promising example of how democracy can truly flourish in latin america and it is now negotiating an fta with the eu. it too will hold a presidential election and its people will undoubtedly miss the visionary leadership of álvaro uribe. in contrast, venezuela is led by a populist demagogue, hugo chávez, who has shown scant regard for democracy and freedom of expression. bolivia and ecuador have also shown worrying signs of following the disreputable example of chávez and castro’s cuba. finally, it is deeply regrettable that president kirchner in argentina has chosen to divert attention away from domestic politics and her poor performance as president by employing bellicose language over the falkland islands, whose inhabitants wish to remain british.
madam president, at the beginning of the debate, baroness ashton kindly said that she would respond to any question. baroness, i would urge you please to answer my following question. proposals documented by the committee on foreign affairs include negotiations for the establishment of a euro-latin american charter for peace and security, based upon the un charter. whose interest do you support in relation to argentina formally asking the united nations secretary, ban ki-moon, to question british sovereignty over the falkland islands? the argentine foreign minister, jorge taiana, has asked the un to help stop further unilateral acts by the uk in relation to oil drilling in the area. a recent summit of latin american and caribbean leaders saw unanimous support from all 32 countries for argentine claims to the falkland islands. do you agree that, underpinned by the principle of self-determination in the un charter, britain should maintain sovereignty of the islands, and will you be supporting her interests in accordance with international law? i would like an answer please.
madam president, as a member of eurolat, i commend the spanish presidency and mr salafranca for emphasising the importance of our relations with latin america. climate change and global warming should remain a priority on the political agenda between the eu and the countries of latin america and the caribbean and a commitment to copenhagen targets should be reinforced. furthermore, energy and energy-supply dialogue should be boosted to combat climate change and to aid sustainable energy consumption. but we have much to exchange, not only in trade but in culture and education, and the ultimate aim is that our trade relationship with latin america is boosted by increased innovation on both sides and improved education and i would like to emphasise the need to further enhance and promote erasmus to latin american participants and the fantastic opportunities that it can offer personally, professionally and for future contacts and improved trade relationships between the eu and latin america.
mr president, may i just say that i would like to add my compliments on the work that has been done and the comments that have already been made. however, there still remain, as some people perhaps point out, some difficult questions on the issue of colombia and its human rights record. in the absence of one or two of my colleagues, including richard howitt, who cannot be here because of the volcanoes, i must refer to what he has pointed out: that there have been particular problems affecting trade unionists in colombia. i would like to ask the commissioner and others to reflect on this in any strategy and involvement we have across this continent.
mr president, recent events in bishkek are alarming and a sad end to the 2005 tulip revolution, or colour revolution, when president bakiyev had promised democracy and human rights and instead delivered corruption, nepotism and increasing autocracy. kyrgyzstan remains the smallest and poorest country in central asia and has undergone a worrying infiltration of radical islamists in the fergana valley in recent years, so stability must be the eu’s priority for the region. it is right and proper now to recognise the new otunbayeva government, an unusual example where we have a common interest with that of russia, which actually supported the revolution and overthrow of the bakiyev regime. president roza otunbayeva served briefly as ambassador to the united kingdom, so she knows the workings of the european union well. lastly, central asia is a strategic region for reasons of energy and global security and the operational capability of the us air base in kyrgyzstan is vitally important to support isaf in afghanistan as well.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as chairman of the delegation for relations with canada, i warmly welcome this resolution, which is actually a first part of an eu-canada summit. as has been said, canada is one of europe’s oldest partners, and strengthening our relations across the atlantic has become a priority for both sides. again, as the noble lady said in her opening remarks, discussions are progressing with canada for a comprehensive, economic and trade agreement which hopefully will set the standard for future trade agreements between the eu and third countries. parliament will have to approve these agreements, and i hope that the commission will keep members, especially the interparliamentary delegation and the international trade committee, fully informed and involved at each stage of these discussions. the resolution before us is one that i can fully support as it is concise and sticks to the issues of the summit and our relations with the canadian government. the resolution sets a positive tone for future discussions and illustrates this parliament’s willingness to engage positively with our oldest trading partner. it can be built upon to advance the reputation not only of this house, but also in future negotiations with other third countries.
mr president, i hope the high representative will congratulate the canadians on their diplomatic skills because they have something to teach us. at the recent conference on the trade in endangered species (cites) they teamed up with their japanese allies to comprehensively defeat our attempt to introduce a trade ban on bluefin tuna. that cites conference was all too reminiscent of the one on climate change in copenhagen, where the eu position was unclear. we seemed to have spent a lot of time debating amongst ourselves, rather than debating with others, on a day-by-day basis and we ended up being soundly thrashed. japan and its canadian allies had spent months beforehand doing the rounds, winning friends and buying a bit of influence here and there in order to get the votes they needed to get the result they wanted. we ended up coming out looking incoherent, disorganised and weak. the environment commissioner has said that this must never happen again. he is determined to make a change. however, we have conferences of this kind taking place across the world all the time and we need to ensure that we are harnessing the full diplomatic skills of the european union to ensure we have a forward-looking strategy, that we use our resources effectively and that we stop punching below our weight.
mr president, canada is a close ally, but the eu must be a critical friend where necessary. canada’s record on climate change is poor and canada was obstructive during the copenhagen negotiations. of particular concern is the tar sands industry, as mr arsenis mentioned. extracting oil from tar sands requires much more energy than oil produced from other sources, as well as being very polluting for the local environment. given that the canadian government is currently trying hard to get the commission to weaken its approach to carbon measurement in the implementation of the fuel quality directive, may i ask the high representative whether she will be raising the issue of tar sands in the summit discussions?
i very much welcome this question by mr crowley, and i am interested indeed that in ireland there is a new wireless broadband roll-out to provide first-generation access to rural communities, which i think is an exciting initiative. i wanted to ask you specifically about an issue that has come up in work i have done, which is on the state aid criteria for supporting local broadband initiatives. some local authorities that i know have been trying to work with public authorities to consolidate demand together to give a viable package for an investor. but apparently in some cases this is considered to infringe state aid criteria. so could i ask if her services could support some of these community projects by giving some clear guidelines about state aid criteria to help those public/private partnerships, which would, i agree, be crucial to achieving universal broadband.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am not sure that inspiration is going to be what is on offer but this is obviously a very controversial topic that many members in this house were terrified to come and speak about, so those of us who are brave enough to be here must seize the moment. i want to start firstly by thanking very much all the shadows who worked on this report for their very active involvement and our ability to find a common negotiating position and act as something of a team. i also want to thank the two presidencies involved – the czech and particularly the swedish presidency – for their more open attitude on this than we have seen in some negotiations, as we were able to negotiate rather than feel we were there to do what council wanted – well, sometimes anyway. so, what did we achieve? the aim of the common european asylum support system is to deliver consistent high-quality decision-making for those in need of protection, and it really can be a matter of life or death for those in need. it is well known that the system is not delivered in a consistent way across member states. differences at times are so great between the best and the worst that there is a lack of confidence which can lead to those who try to deliver objective decisions feeling undermined by those who do not. and those who suffer at the end of the day are those in need of protection. there is also a very strong feeling from some member states under particular pressure that there is a lack of solidarity from others, that their need for support is not given a real practical response. under the refugee fund, there has been a funding strand for cooperation between member states which has led to some positive developments, but it has also become clear that there are limits to this more piecemeal approach. the asylum support office is therefore being set up to provide ongoing support to enhance a consistent approach and to provide active support for countries under particular pressure. specific tasks are already being assigned to it via other legislation. the key points for the european parliament during the negotiations have been the role of the european parliament itself in relation to the asylum support office, how to achieve greater solidarity between the member states, and the role of civil society and unhcr with the office. the issues about the role of parliament have centred around our relationship with the director in terms of his or her appointment and ongoing links. we have eventually settled on the european parliament hearing the recommended candidate, offering a confidential opinion and receiving feedback on how that is being taken into account. the director will also present the annual report to the relevant committee – i cannot quite believe we had to fight for that, but still – and we can also invite the director to report on the performance of certain tasks. the role of parliament in relation to agencies is now a topic for discussion in the interinstitutional working group, and i am now a member of the european parliament team on that – partly due to my experiences and a certain sense of frustration with the negotiations on the asylum support office. as regards solidarity between the member states, parliament wanted binding mechanisms, council wanted to entrench the voluntary nature of cooperation, and the final language is more neutral, but we do have an external evaluation of the asylum support office to look forward to, which will cover the support office’s impact on practical cooperation on asylum. on the role of the consultative forum, there is a lot of real expertise available to member states, and it seemed obvious to us that such expertise could be valuable. we know that some member states have active relationships with ngos, and we wanted as well to make sure that local authorities, which often deliver much of what is required under the common system, also had an opportunity to be included. so we are pleased to have been able to breathe a little more life into this body. in conclusion, we feel that the asylum support office could play a very valuable role in developing a common system. we hope it will be of high quality – even if we could not quite get that into the final text – and help engender a sense of mutual confidence and support. i would also ask the member states involved to be more open to what other institutions, elected authorities and civil society can contribute, because, while this is about cooperation between member states, it is not entirely intergovernmental. it is a european institution we are creating.
mr president, the establishment of a european asylum support office goes totally against the british opt-out on immigration and is at odds with the uk rejection of the schengen acquis. the proposal that eur 40 million will be spent establishing and staffing an entire office in malta to deal with asylum seekers across the eu suggests that this commission wants to make the decisions that should be left to national governments. any common european asylum policy threatens british sovereignty over border control. repeated appeals to let the uk decide who comes in and out of the country, and who can be accommodated, arise from the fact that we have a huge population problem that is quite unlike the situation anywhere else in europe. the commission does not offer help and support when the uk is struggling. instead it will take the money of the british taxpayer to cover the cost of making our decisions on our behalf. eur 40 million would be better directed towards building new schools, hospitals and houses in the uk as well as affording critical services such as clean water, desperately needed if we are to continue providing a decent first world quality of life for everyone. one in four births are to mothers who themselves were not born in the uk, that is 170 000 births a year. where is the money to help the british taxpayer afford all this? in your pocket or spent on setting up a new asylum office which will no doubt pile more pressure on to the uk? in our election campaigns, all the parties in the uk are promising to do something about immigration because the people back home are demanding something should be done. but what can westminster do as long as we are in the eu, because at exactly the same time the european commission wants all the powers over asylum seekers passed to them? time and again this commission has shown only disregard for the wants and needs of the uk people. is it the commission’s intention to repeal the uk opt-out in this area too? the people back home deserve your honesty because this issue is extremely important to them. you are supposed to represent them and they deserve to know what you have planned.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for the strong support for creating this agency by a majority of this plenary. as you know, there has been a unanimous demand from member states to create this agency, even those under opt-out, who know that the commission has no intention of forcing any changes in the uk opt-out. that is the decision of the uk people. but there has also been a strong support in this plenary for an agency, and i am very glad that it is going to be created now. we know that, especially in certain seasons, there is a great pressure on the countries in the mediterranean, and this agency can help and support. there are also migrants coming to northern, eastern, western and central europe, so this is an agency for the whole of europe, even if it is no coincidence that it is located in valetta. it is not just another agency. it is in fact a cornerstone in building a common asylum system and it will be an important instrument in supporting member states, in helping develop practices and common standards, and in supporting member states under particular pressure. it would gather information, it would put up a portal, it would have experts etc. ultimately it is always up to the member states as to who can stay, but there are certain procedures which need to be harmonised. as some of you have said, this is part of developing a common asylum system in europe. this is just one part: as i think the rapporteur said, we are stuck when it comes to the rest of the asylum package. the commission counts on the help and support of the european parliament in moving on with these issues so that, within the not too distant future, we can indeed establish a common asylum policy in the european union.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to just take an opportunity to clear up one or two questions which have arisen, although it is a pity that some of those asking the questions are not around for the answers. asylum obligations are clearly set out under international conventions which all member states have individually signed up to. that is not the same as an immigration policy, and people really should recognise the difference. for those who are concerned about the money – if i may make a party political and national political point here – if certain of our member states stopped creating asylum-seekers from iraq and afghanistan, i am sure we could save a lot more money and indeed save people a lot more misery. as regards some of the other points which were raised, it is hoped that improving the quality of the system in certain member states will be able to increase confidence between member states and deblock some of the other parts of the asylum system, as well as helping member states feel that there is support when they are facing particular burdens. as others have pointed out, while some of our member states do have considerable geographical pressures on them from the flows which arrive, many of the over-burdened countries are actually not in the european union at all but are elsewhere. i was very interested to hear a colleague arguing for additional support out there, in terms of the asylum support office, but i am afraid i missed the amendments which he tabled on that topic. i also want to be clear that the asylum support office is not there to determine status; it is not taking over the role of member states in that field. all in all, i welcome the kind comments made by colleagues, i welcome the active involvement of those who have helped me very much on this report, and i am sure that we are all looking forward – or most of us anyway – to being there in valletta when the ribbon is cut on the asylum support office and we can begin work.
mr chairman, fundamentally this report seems to have some very good objectives helping the member states of the eu, who have been hard hit by the economic and financial crisis, via european funding. it has the laudable goal of wanting to reduce strains on member states’ budgets when demands upon them are coming from all directions. reducing the project thresholds and simplifying the process will all help, as well as the pre-financing of agreed projects to jump start economies quickly. when europe is facing unemployment figures in excess of 10%, in many member states much worse, and the economy looks only now to be slowly reviving, there are many things member states should be doing to rebuild their state finances. however, this report is fairly limited and does not seem to address many of them. however, a note of caution: the idea that member states should no longer have to cofinance projects with any of their own money seems a high-risk policy. already much of european money is not properly accounted for in spending projects due to improper oversight procedures. removing a member state’s vested interest in ensuring its own money is well-spent should not be an invitation to their misuse. we need to ensure that relaxing the cofinance criteria does not reduce accountability. however, this problem in itself is unlikely to have much effect on my constituents in wales as, if the european union has its own way, we will not, post 2013, have any more money to spend on any ongoing projects, which are so generously cofunded by the european funding at this moment in time. while it is all very well to say that some of the new member states are poorer than the old and so need special help, the colossal amount of debt in the uk and the very low gdp per capita in my region of wales, which was recently compared, unhelpfully, to the economic performance of rwanda, hopefully mean it will not be forgotten. i have discovered by word of mouth that plans may be under way to disqualify regions like wales, and i do hope that in the future we will qualify for transitional funding.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i welcome the opportunity to have this debate. i think it is very timely, and the recent crisis in the dairy sector, which crippled so many of our farmers across the european union, certainly demonstrated the serious volatility which can affect our agriculture markets. significant price fluctuations are occurring from year to year, and indeed month to month, and are often due to factors beyond our control, such as the global financial crisis and indeed the price of oil. the effects of the dramatic drop in the price of milk in 2009 were compounded by the eu’s inability to react swiftly enough to the situation. while we were eventually able to implement a mixture of market management and income support measures, such as intervention in the milk fund and export refunds, which eased the pain to a degree, many dairy farmers ended up going out of business and many are suffering serious financial loss. in my opinion, we need to adopt a two-fold approach in order to attempt to mitigate the effects of depressed prices on our farmers. firstly, we need to agree upon a set minimum safety net for all sectors which are vulnerable to price fluctuations. secondly we need to ensure that, whatever tools we introduce, we are able to respond rapidly and effectively to whatever crisis presents itself. there is a lot of discussion at the moment in parliament and beyond about farmers receiving a fair and stable income for what they produce. the ins and outs of food supply and the food supply chain in general is a topic which is relevant to both farmers and consumers alike. the imminent reform of the cap gives us a real opportunity to address these issues. of course, it is important not to undermine the competitiveness of europe’s agri-food industry. however, a reformed cap must be able to respond to various crises in agriculture in order to stabilise the markets and ensure a fair income for our farmers.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i speak on behalf of the british conservative party, who will again this year vote against discharge of the budget. this is a position that we have consistently taken, and we will continue to do so until we see greater urgency applied to the achievement of a positive statement of assurance by the court of auditors. i do, however, wish to publicly acknowledge the progress that has been made in improving the financial management standards by this past commission. the court of auditors particularly notes progress which has been made in the fields of agriculture, research, energy, transport and education. i commend the commission for the improvements they have made. this is most encouraging. however, a great deal needs to be done. the court of auditors has yet again adversely commented on the weaknesses of controls, on numerous irregularities and the slow rate of recovery of monies due to the european union. it is also clear that, while responsibility ultimately rests with the european commission, it is the member states and the council – in particular the council – who need to be far more conscientious in their application of european funding and who need to demonstrate far greater urgency in their efforts to achieve a positive statement of assurance. we operate under the lisbon treaty and, as members of the european parliament, we owe it to european taxpayers that we can assure the public that the budget delivers value for money, and assure the public likewise that there is integrity in the accounting procedures of the european union. until the court of auditors feels able to give that positive statement of assurance, i and my party will continue to vote against discharge of the budget.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the discharge is one of the most important acts that we are responsible for. we are effectively being called to approve the way in which the european taxpayer’s money has been spent and we have to base our decision on the report by the european court of auditors. the auditors’ report for 2008 only clears 10% of the budget. the rest is affected by different levels of errors. would any board of directors approve the management of a company in such a state of affairs? of course not. the situation has been the same for the last 15 years, and this parliament has always granted discharge, on the basis of the improvement in the use of european union funds. i am sorry to say that what the taxpayers want to know is if their money has gone to the right person for the right purpose and for the right amount. we should be making the decision on discharge in view of this. over the years the only progress achieved by the commission, parliament and the council is the shifting of responsibility to member states. while it is true that programmes are implemented in member states, the institution to which the european taxpayers entrust their money is the european commission. this is the institution that releases the money and that should, therefore, be performing the necessary controls before doing so. to make matters worse, the commission and parliament are now discussing a tolerable risk of error. why tolerate any error – the new name for irregularity – when the financial complexity of the european union is that of a medium-sized bank? last year the council discharge was postponed from april to november because this parliament said it was not satisfied with their financial management, even if the auditors did not criticise their financial management. when the situation had not changed by november, this parliament took the decision to discharge the council. now again all cannons are directed to the council and postponement is being proposed. are we being serious about our responsibility or are we playing politics here? is discharge an interinstitutional game, as has been said in the past? can taxpayers tolerate this game anymore? this is about their money. colleagues, i call upon all of you to exercise your responsibility with due care and withhold discharge to the commission, to parliament, to the council, to the european development fund and to the court of auditors, that does not publish the declaration of financial interests, until all of these institutions give proof of sound financial management.
mr president, yet again this parliament is being presented with substandard accounts and being asked to discharge them. these are accounts which the court of auditors has refused to give a positive statement of assurance – accounts which still fall short of being legal and regular. the auditors have said – again – that these accounts are riddled with irregularities, yet we are expected to rubber-stamp them. i am pleased that mrs mathieu has recommended a postponement of discharge for the european police college accounts. we will support that recommendation, as olaf needs more time to conclude its investigation. allegations have been made of fraudulent activity at that college, including the use of taxpayers’ money by staff to buy furniture for their personal use. i can tell parliament that the british conservatives will not accept these irregularities. we shall refuse to grant discharge until such time as the court of auditors gives a positive statement of assurance. trust in politicians is at an all-time low, and we will reduce our standing further if we are seen to condone such waste. every time we discharge substandard accounts we encourage more waste and more fraud. every time we vote to grant discharge we send a signal to the council, to the commission and to our constituents that we do not treat this issue seriously. my party will look particularly carefully at how labour and liberal democrat meps decide to vote on this issue. they cannot argue at home that they want to bring change to politics – to clean up and reform politics – and yet, year on year, vote to accept these substandard accounts. anyone who is serious about reforming this system and about protecting the taxpayer should vote against granting discharge.
mr president, i wanted to speak on the european parliament’s discharge and first of all to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done, and the hard work he has done, along with many others. i think it goes without saying that everyone in this chamber wants improvements to openness and transparency and wants value for money for taxpayers, but we have to make sure that any changes to our processes actually are improvements. i am not sure whether some of the recommendations in the current report are improvements. for example, a recommendation to remove the bathrooms within this building will prove very costly, as will the proposal to replace the whole fleet of european parliament cars. there are also some recommendations within the report that are already included in the 2011 budget proposals. examples include a review of europarl tv to make sure it is effective and is doing its job, and also the call for a long-term building strategy, which is already in place or is at least called for in the future. there are also some recommendations within the report that cover issues where improvements have already been made or are in the process of being made. however, there are of course some positives in the report, and these should indeed be supported – for example the reduction in paper wasted in printing. we all see piles of paper printed every day and surely there must be some scope for reduction there. also welcome is the call for a rationalisation of external studies, and cooperation with other institutions on those studies, so that we can avoid duplication and make some efficiency savings. i understand some amendments will be put forward again for the 2011 european parliament budget. the report also asks for an annual report from the risk manager, and again i think that is a good thing. all this demonstrates that there is a need for a balance in the discussions we have on the discharge for the european parliament. i have no doubt that the budgetary control committee will ensure that it exercises its responsibilities in future and will want to report in the future on how the recommendations in this report are being implemented and dealt with.
mr president, i represent a party that is opposed to the whole eu project and to our country’s membership of the eu. this might lead people to suspect that we would object to the discharge of accounts regardless of the evidence. i would like to reject that suspicion. whilst our default position would be to object to the approval of almost all future expenditure, i had hoped that we would support the discharge of accounts for past expenditure if the evidence justified it, even if we disapproved of the purposes of that expenditure. however, we shall oppose the discharge of the accounts as a whole because of the quantity of irregularities. we would not confuse judgement of the regularity or irregularity of expenditure with approval or disapproval of the purpose. i hope that all others, whether they approve of the purposes of the expenditure or not, will take the same approach.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group supported the council’s original agreement on swift with the united states and its terrorist-financed tracking programme for the transfer of financial messaging data, subject of course to certain safeguards. we repudiated at the time the anti-americanism, both latent and overt, that characterises some in this house. america bears a vastly disproportionate burden worldwide for securing the liberty of us all. we want to see the eu doing more, not less, to support america’s principled leadership in the fight against terrorism. we therefore saw the swift agreement as a vital tool to help excise the cancer of terrorist financing and to protect citizens on both sides of the atlantic. however, whilst i was saddened to see the deal voted down, i was not altogether surprised. undoubtedly, parliament was flexing its muscles and keen to make a show of its new powers under the lisbon treaty, but the temporary demise of the swift accord until the better current proposal was forthcoming from the commission could perhaps ultimately be for the good, to serve as a wake-up call to president obama’s administration which, like its predecessors, appears to have a very sketchy grasp of the eu and its institutions, notably parliament. there seems to be little appreciation amongst american diplomats of the increased powers and influence of meps. the letter sent by secretary clinton to president buzek, raising concerns regarding swift, was woefully late in the day. moreover, it was considered by many members of this house as at best naive, and at worst arrogant, because it ignored the reality of how our parliament operates through the political groups. the united states maintains an almost invisible lobbying presence in the parliament. compare that to small countries like israel, taiwan and colombia, not to mention giants like india and china, which invest substantial diplomatic resources in building relationships in this house. as a result, they punch above their weight diplomatically at eu level, whereas america falls woefully short of its potential. it is extraordinary that the usa’s bilateral embassy to belgium is still double the size of its mission to the european union. i am, however, heartened that the new american ambassador to the eu, william kennard, seems to appreciate meps’ importance, and this is now being conveyed back to washington. i hope that his time in brussels coincides with a quantum leap in terms of america’s relationship with us meps, and the announced visit by vice-president biden is an excellent start, because no one wants to see the transatlantic partnership strengthened more than i do. the next hurdle, of course, will be getting a new agreement on swift through this house, but also one on passenger name records (pnr), which in my view will prove no less controversial.
mr president, clearly the commission has listened. the draft mandate is indeed a clear improvement on previous agreements, though my colleagues have highlighted aspects where our concerns remain. i will not repeat those concerns apart from thanking my colleague mrs hennis-plasschaert for all her hard work for the parliament. i want to say something on process and something on context. recent progress is, i think, a tribute to what can be achieved when partners treat each other with respect and listen to each other, treat objections seriously and try hard to bring views together. as well as the commission, i actually believe that the us authorities have made that effort of engagement and understanding. i would like to thank ambassador bill kennard in that regard. he has grasped very well how the european parliament works, perhaps rather better than some of our member states. now what we need is for the council to make the same effort and adopt a progressive mandate. it was the council’s failure last time to come to us with a serious offer of improvement meeting meps’ concerns that made it necessary for us to strike down the interim agreement. for the last decade – and this is the point on context – authorities in the us and the eu have progressed in a reactive, even knee-jerk, manner to real or perceived security threats. sometimes governments have even been guilty of gesture or dog-whistle politics designed to get media headlines or to label opponents soft on crime or terrorism. we cannot go on like this, and i look forward to a new start where we base decisions, especially about data storage and transfer, on our basic bedrock principles of proportionality, necessity and legal processing. we need an audit of all the schemes and projects that have accumulated in an unplanned manner. i am heartened that – as i understand it – commissioner malmström plans to do that so we can get a clear view of gaps, duplication and over-intrusive measures and arrive at a rational and effective security framework that does not junk our civil liberties.
mr president, it is shocking to me that this commission is still insisting on passing sensitive financial information on millions of innocent european citizens, including those from the uk, despite parliament and the civil liberties committee rejecting the proposals. the issue here is not how we can better manage swift, but that there should be no swift agreement at all. i would totally oppose this sort of infringement by my own government and resolutely stand against the eu handing in constituents’ personal information to america. handing over such information is at the thin end of the wedge, leading us into a frightening big brother of europe. under current rules, the us can retain data for 90 years, which is longer than an average lifetime, and, although the us authorities say untouched data is deleted after five years, the us government has already been accused of giving data to big american companies, not to tackle terrorism but rather to further economic interests. the european parliament threw out these sickening proposals but the commission does not like backing down, and an interim agreement was signed without parliamentary approval by the european council last year, the day before the lisbon treaty would have prohibited it under the codecision procedure. on 11 february the european parliament again rejected the interim agreement and a week prior to that parliament’s civil liberties committee rejected the deal. your dogged pursuit of this disgusting agreement just goes to show your contempt for democracy and liberties of the people, including those from my country, wales, and the rest of the united kingdom.
mr president, one of the crucially important questions is whether bulk data – that is everyone’s information – should be handed over or whether data should be confined to identified individuals. there is of course an intermediate position. population groups associated with terrorism at a particular time could be targeted. for example, if orkney fishermen suddenly became radicalised and started to kill humankind and not just fish, then they should be targeted. if ageing, overweight, grey retired college teachers should put on fatigues and commit terrorist outrages against their students, rather than just boring them to death with their deadly monotones, then they – or rather i should say we – should also be targeted. targeting is viewed with distaste and condemned as discriminatory. i would call it common sense. nevertheless, there must be early destruction of data belonging to innocent members of those targeted groups.
in writing. − whilst we support measures to manage and protect european forests, we do not support the creation of a new european forestry policy that would transfer powers in this area to the european union. the report also refers to the soil directive, legislation that the british conservative delegation opposes, as soil can be best managed by member states, because applying the same rules on all soil from northern finland to southern greece will not bring any benefit to farmers in the uk. uk farmers already meet very high voluntary standards of soil management and have continued to improve standards. the soil directive as proposed by the european commission was flawed in many aspects and would only bring more regulation, more cost and less flexibility to british farmers, who we believe know better than european bureaucrats how to manage their own land.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the proposal before us of course precedes the treaty being brought into force. if the treaty had been brought into being before such a proposal had come forward we would not have accepted it. parliament could not accept the fact that france would be seeking to appoint two deputies from the assemblée nationale to parliament. and if we had agreed this after the treaty had come onto force – if this proposal had not come forward before it had been brought into force – we would also have been in breach of the treaty because this proposal does not respect the principle of digressive proportionality. we are accepting a transitional solution, but the controversy has been quite successful in exposing the problems concerning parliament’s composition and electoral procedure. i am pleased that all our groups now agree that a substantial reform of the electoral procedure is now required, and parliament will soon be bringing forward proposals which are going to require an igc, which will be fully and properly prepared by a convention that will include national parliaments, will be broadly consultative and include national political parties to conclude a substantial settlement of this issue in time for 2014. i am extremely grateful to my colleagues and coordinators of the other groups for the constructive negotiations which have been concluded by a firm intent to reform the electoral procedure of parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome this report and its conclusion that there is no need for a constitutional convention. such a convention would merely serve to waste time and taxpayers’ money. indeed, there is no appetite amongst my constituents for a convention which would no doubt discuss further political integration. indeed, the balance of opinion in britain is that political union has already progressed too far. whilst i welcome the measures that enable the 18 additional meps to take their seats, i do not believe that they should enjoy observer status until the transitional provisions come into force. such a move would entitle them to claim their salaries and expenses before they are entitled to vote, and i believe, as a matter of principle, that that is wrong. at a time when large cuts in public expenditure are anticipated in almost every member state, this parliament should set an example. we should be prudent with public money at all times. my group will vote against this report because it disregards that important principle.
madam president, delaying ratifying the lisbon treaty meant that 736 meps were appointed rather than the 751 now proposed. this higher number is to be achieved by 18 seats being distributed amongst 12 member states and germany losing three seats, but this cannot take place as it is unlawful to prematurely curtail the mandate of the three german meps. a further complication is that the treaty stipulates the total number of meps shall not exceed 751. to include the 18 additional meps without losing the three german seats will require a revision of protocol 36 of the lisbon treaty. this should be achieved by a convention producing proposals for agreement by member states for incorporation into the treaty by way of amendment. failure to do this would render unlawful any act this parliament takes on the basis of a 754-strong chamber – three over the limit of 751. the proposal before this house is that this problem be dealt with by way of an intergovernmental conference, but this is a significant revision and amendment to the lisbon treaty requiring ratification by all member states and providing the opportunity for individual national referenda. i urge this house to oppose this proposal.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, it is a shame that mr barroso has fled the chamber. i feel he would have learned so much from me this evening! i would counsel you all not to worry too much about the eu in 2020 because i rather fancy it will not be here! it will go the same way as the soviet union which it so resembles, and for the same reasons: it is centralised; it is corrupt; it is undemocratic and it is incompetent; it is driven by an unholy alliance of big business and fat-cat bureaucrats; it is sponsored by an ecofascist agenda from a platform of perverted junk science referred to as ‘climate change’. whenever the people of europe get the chance of a referendum, they reject it. the british, of course, have not been given the chance to have their say, thanks to the deceit of the only three parties with access to television debate in my country, aided and abetted by an eu-corrupted public-service broadcaster known as the bbc. the eu is already crumbling. the scenes in greece today will spread through the other mediterranean countries sooner than we can imagine, and they will eventually reach northern european countries, which are being left to pick up the tab. our children and our grandchildren will curse us as they are left to pick up the pieces of this wholly avoidable shambles!
mr president, i want to talk about a lack of ambition that i see in this eu 2020 strategy, for the way in which we can use the instruments which we have now – the single market – to get it to work very effectively and create those new jobs and opportunities: the sort of thing that mrs turunen was talking about. it is not good enough – and i say this to president and council, if the commissioner is listening – to put the single market and its achievement under this heading: ‘missing links and bottlenecks’. it is far more important than that, colleagues. and it is simply not good enough to say that the commission will propose action; it is a shared venture between commission and member states. my committee, the internal market committee, passed a report this week with a huge majority which sets out some really ambitious ideas for joint action to complete the single market. you will receive that next week in conjunction with professor monti’s report. let us see some fundamental changes in here, both parties. what we want is a single market act, a set of clear political objectives to complete the single market, and we also want to see public procurement, a massively underused tool to achieve those objectives of innovation and green technology. it is hardly mentioned in this document. for heaven’s sake why are we talking about these other targets when we are not actually moving on what we have already?
mr president, we are discussing europe 2020 – which will be in 10 years’ time – but i think we ought perhaps to reflect on the last 10 hours. it was with great sadness that i learnt of the deaths in greece; it is very sad. i feel sorry for the families, and my condolences go to the families and friends of those poor people who have died. however, a few weeks back, in parliament, i did warn of civil unrest over the situation with the eurozone and the problems it now faces. i think it is time that this parliament, the commission and the council woke up to the fact that the eurozone is flawed: it is not working. we have seen problems in greece. i feel it will carry on to spain and, before more lives are lost, is it not time for some honesty here, and that we should really look at the situation regarding the eurozone countries and admit that it is flawed?
mr president, it has now become clear on this tragic of days that draconian austerity measures will be imposed on greece to preserve the euro. this cannot be right. it simply penalises the ordinary, hard-working greek people for the profligacy of their politicians and the desire of those same politicians to prop up the doomed currency union. we in the uk remember our exit in september 1992 from the exchange rate mechanism, the erm, or, as the british politician norman tebbit called it, the ‘eternal recession mechanism’, membership of which had been disastrous for britain. we escaped thanks to the bundesbank’s refusal to prop up sterling. tough love does work. whilst it remains in the eurozone, greece has no way out. free the greeks from the shackles of the euro. let the imf do its work and watch how quickly greece recovers, as we in britain did on leaving the erm. do not make the greek people pay the price for the unattainable ambition of an eu superstate!
author. − mr president, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i am very pleased to be here this evening to present our aspect of the question, and i particularly want to thank our colleagues on the committee on economic and monetary affairs, who of course have leadership on competition issues, for working closely with us, because clearly this is an element of competition policy which also has fundamental interests for consumers, and we have been ensuring from our side that some of those consumer elements are very well represented. first of all, i think that the elements of the commission’s proposal relating to the sales, service and repair market are very much aligned with the consumer interests which we have raised in our committee – not specifically on issues related to dg competition, but for example particularly in the areas related to information on service and repair where we worked, in this instance, with the environment committee on the provisions concerning technical information linked to environmental standards for motor vehicles. i think that those elements, which have been reinforced in the new proposal, are extremely welcome as regards sustaining competition between independent repairers and market access for spare parts with equivalent quality markings: the opening up of that market is very welcome. i think the one reservation which we would draw to your attention, which is contained in the resolution on which we will vote tomorrow, concerns the issues about the availability of information. we are not convinced – you may wish to convince us, but we are not convinced – that the guidelines you published are necessarily sufficiently strong or enforceable to ensure that this technical information is available, particularly because it will be possible for car manufacturers to make that information available in an electronic format, which, without appropriate software and searching capability, may not be so valuable to the service repairer as we would expect it to be. having said that, i now want to turn to the issue of sales, which we just heard eloquently addressed by the vice-chair of the economic and monetary affairs committee. i think on sales we are much less convinced that the commission has really taken on board the concerns of consumers. the economic and monetary affairs committee held a very important hearing where we heard from both dealers and consumer representatives about their very real concerns that the safeguards which have been put in place to ensure competition in the sales market, which were put there clearly in 2002 – many of them, i have to say, in response to concerns raised by this parliament – have simply been swept away by what seems to us to be rather excessive zeal on your part to simplify issues and make life rather easier for you, as an administration, to deal with it. there may be problems with that, but i would suggest to you – and i would like you to look at the evidence which was placed before us in our hearing – that dealers and consumers do have serious concerns about bringing automotive distribution straight away into the general block exemption. there were clear safeguards built in back in 2002 – not that long ago in the cycle of car distribution – to redress the balance of power between independent dealers and manufacturers. i think the dealers would say that this has actually worked rather well over that time. indeed, if you look at what has happened in the marketplace, they would feel that that was the case. perhaps i might also remind you, commissioner, because i think you were not around at the time, that there was a lot of lobbying by the car manufacturers that these provisions were excessive, but the dealers were in favour of them. what do we have now? we have the dealers saying to us: these provisions are too weak and the manufacturers saying: we like them very much. i think you need to look at this. i am not saying that we should stop this process – i think it is the right thing to do now, given that we are now only a few days away from implementing these – but what we are saying to you in the resolution tomorrow is: please look at the up-to-date data, look at the information. i would also say that, within the commission, commissioner barnier is about to produce a report about competition in the retail supply chain. the automotive sector should be part of that, and you need to look at that because we need some consistent policy from the commission. secondly, the papers which i have seen from your services say: do you think this is a preparation for the new generation of green cars, electric vehicles, and low-emission vehicles? there is nothing in your analysis whatsoever that has picked up any of that. we now have mr tajani’s paper. can i ask you, within the next year, to look at mr tajani’s paper, look at mr barnier’s paper and assure us that this is the right thing to do? i think that if you do that you will restore some credibility here, because i think that we remain unconvinced on that side about what you are planning to do.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, when i look at the projects the eib finances i am struck by how many involve large companies and how few involve the smes they are supposed to help. do companies such as general motors, electrolux and arcelor mittal really need to use the eib except for the soft terms they offer? and what have such loans done for the european economy? have they created jobs? no, they have exported jobs, sometimes to cheaper european countries and sometimes outside the eu altogether. electrolux is an example of eib success. lent eur 250 million for capacity enhancement, they built new factories in poland, romania and hungary. as soon as these were completed they transferred production there from the uk with the loss of almost 2 000 jobs in spennymoor, england, so i think we can all agree that the eib plays a very important role in the economy of europe, particularly on the balance of trade: it exports our jobs and imports unemployment.
mr president, as a boy i remember vividly seeing on television the pictures of the horrific civil war in the nigerian region of biafra. forty years on, sadly, little seems to have changed. the sickening images from jos, where hundreds of innocent people were hacked to death in an act of savagery, remind us that nigeria is a chronically unstable country. ethnic, religious, particularly christian versus muslim, tribal, cultural and economic tensions appear to be endemic in nigeria. the current uncertainty following the death yesterday of the president – i send my condolences to the nigerian people – will inevitably result in a power struggle and this will follow on to compound the instability in that large africa country. i am therefore worried about the long-term sustainability of nigeria as a unitary state. some, including the maverick president gaddafi of libya, have controversially suggested that nigeria should be split into two. certainly sudan, another country divided between a muslim north and a christian south, looks probably set to separate into two parts next year. that likely division will set a precedent that colonial boundaries in africa are no longer sacrosanct, which raises many interesting questions for the future of africa.
in writing. − we welcome measures to allow the 18 additional members to take up their seats in the european parliament. however, they should not enjoy observer status until the transitional measures enter into force and they can take their seats as full members of parliament. as observers, the incoming members would be entitled to their salaries and expenses before they are entitled to vote. that is wrong, and it is why our delegation has voted against this report.
mr president, while we are remembering the tragic losses in afghanistan we should also remember that, almost on a daily basis, we are losing british soldiers who are giving their lives in the nato mission taking place in that country. we should recognise the tragic losses, and feel particular sympathy for the families of all our service personnel, from whichever country, who are serving under the auspices of nato.
mr president, british taxpayers will end up contributing some gbp 10 billion to prop up the euro – a currency we resolutely rejected – as part of the gbp 215 billion hand-out from the international monetary fund. this is in addition to the gbp 8 billion if greece defaults on its debts, and gbp 5 billion in loan guarantees to latvia and hungary. britain may end up giving a total of gbp 23 billion to bolster the euro. but, if the shoe was on the other foot, i can only imagine that the commission would rub their hands in delight at the prospect of a failing pound and a weakened london. the recent onerous legislation on hedge funds is the clear signal of this. the invocation of article 122 of the lisbon treaty is the loosest interpretation of legislation i have ever witnessed, and in my opinion demonstrates a sort of political hoodwinking that proves that every paragraph of every article of every treaty is not even worth the paper it is printed on. i would suggest the justification of exceptional occurrences fails to take into account the fiscal irresponsibility that created this mess. the latest move robs britain of vital veto powers by allowing qualified majority voting on future bail-outs. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, it is essential to the operation of the rule of law that institutions are subject to their own laws and rules. rule 24(2) of the rules of procedure states quite clearly: ‘the non-attached members shall delegate one of their number to attend meetings of the conference of presidents’. it does not say that the delegates shall be chosen by vote, but by what other method are joint decisions to be taken? telepathic signals, possibly? the administration for the non-attached has said that the delegates should be chosen by consensus. however, it has not attempted to define how consensus might be established and has not attempted to arrange for a delegate to be chosen by this method. when attempts have been made to choose the delegate by election, these attempts have been declared to be invalid. what has been the response of parliament to all of this? they are going to change the rules so that the delegates – so-called – can be chosen by the president of the parliament rather than the delegators. how long before the president of parliament excises our right to vote in the plenary session?
mr president, as i am sure everyone is aware, we now have a new government in the united kingdom, which we can call the lib-dem/con coalition. in the agreement reached between the conservative party and the liberal democratic party it says that: ‘we agree that there shall be no further transfer of sovereignty or powers over the course of the next parliament’ – i.e. to the european union. of course, anyone who knows anything about this at all knows that there will not be any more transfers of sovereignty requiring a referendum because this has all be done under the lisbon treaty. so there will be no need to ask the people of britain, or of any other country in the europe union; it will all happen anyway. however, if mr cameron is really genuine about what he is saying, then he has a golden opportunity to actually keep to that pledge because, as my colleague trevor coleman pointed out a few weeks ago in this chamber, the addition of new members to the european parliament means that the lisbon treaty will have to be re-ratified by all the member states. so, in britain’s case, mr cameron now has a golden opportunity either not to re-ratify the treaty or to put it to a referendum of the british people. let us hope he keeps to his word and does that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, firstly i would like to congratulate ms lulling on this report: she made a valiant effort. when i first heard of this report i wondered how it would work logistically. the aim of the report is admirable and supports the principle of equal treatment for self-employed women and men workers and their spouses. but then i thought how this report would be greeted by, for example, a self-employed sole trader, such as a plumber or an electrician. for argument’s sake, let us say his wife would be helping him in the evenings with the paperwork and answering the phone from home. how does the report fit in here? would he be expected to pay social contributions to cover his spouse, thus enabling her to qualify for maternity leave if needed? could this sole trader, who in today’s economic climate is struggling, afford to pay this indirect tax, and indeed would he and his wife want this extra burden? if they didn’t see it as a benefit, would they just not pay the contributions – after all, no one really knows she is helping her husband – and is this not what married people do, help each other? then i took this scenario a step further: a few years down the line, they get divorced, as happens often enough, what happens then? this poor guy will be skinned in the courts by his wife for not paying the contributions. interesting times, and an interesting side-effect to our report. the number of self-employed workers in the united kingdom has risen to 1.7 million. one reason for this rise is that employment opportunities are fewer these days, so people look towards starting their own work. should the state not, in these circumstances, support their effort? i have studied ms lulling’s amendments and feel that she has made a valiant effort to improve what was originally a heavy-handed report on self-employment. however, i am still concerned about legislation in matters of employment being made in brussels. i believe that this work is best left to national governments, who are best geared to evaluate the needs of their citizens – as, indeed, the report says. i support ms lulling’s recommendations that the national systems should recognise the importance of protecting self-employed workers, and we should stand against all forms of discrimination, but i am still not convinced that this house is best placed to work on employment matters.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs ţicău, who has worked with tremendous dedication on this dossier. we have had a big delay because of the legal adjustments that were necessary because of the lisbon treaty, and that has meant that there has been a lot more co2 emitted than would have been if we had been able to do this sooner. in this long gestation, it is easy to forget that some of the things in this recast were actually considered quite radical when they were first raised. in particular the dropping of the 1 000 m2 threshold which was proposed initially by parliament in its report on the action plan for energy efficiency, and also the step of bringing in near-zero energy buildings by 2021. unfortunately, this new requirement for new buildings will not help us with the 20-20-20 targets, especially because, increasingly, we realise that we need to be looking at least a 30% greenhouse gas emission reduction. to have any effect on meeting our climate change targets, it is existing buildings that we need to concentrate on and the energy efficiency requirements there. i would suggest three key actions that we need to see in place if we are going to realise the potential for energy saving in existing buildings. firstly, it is very important that the commission comes forward with a robust cost-optimal methodology for renovation. the timetable is quite tight, but necessarily so because so much time has already been wasted, and it is going to be 2014 before the cost-optimal methodology will apply. secondly, all member states need to consider adopting national annual targets for improving a certain percentage of their existing buildings. if we had a european ‘binding’ target on energy efficiency, i am sure that we would see that kind of action being taken in member states very quickly, because they would realise that one of the easiest ways to achieve an energy efficiency target is by systematically upgrading existing buildings. thirdly, and vitally, member states need to put in place upfront funding for energy-efficiency improvements and, despite all the work of the rapporteur and the shadows’ best efforts, we did not get as far on this in the recast as we would have wished from parliament’s point of view. therefore, it is particularly important that we now get money for energy efficiency into the economic recovery programme, and i hope the commission will not delay with its proposal on this. finally, given the comments made in the state-of-play document about the weakness of implementation of energy-efficiency legislation in the past, i would ask the commission whether it can ensure that this directive is implemented fully and on time.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would also like to start by thanking ms ţicău and the other rapporteurs for the way that this directive has been negotiated. it has been with great warmth amongst the groups and it is very encouraging to hear that the debate on the next steps has already started. i do welcome this report. as many have mentioned, 40% of our energy is consumed in buildings. we need more sustainable living, not only because of the carbon challenge but also because of the concerns we all share about rising energy prices and energy security. some member states are already much more ambitious in their national codes for energy efficiency, and i hope that this directive will encourage others to follow suit. energy performance certificates help to raise awareness of where energy and costs can be saved, and encouraging new buildings and newly refurbished buildings to have smart meters give consumers more control over their energy-related decisions. this is all good progress. this recast was born because the original directive was being poorly implemented. going forward, parliament and the commission must always keep an eye on how member states are implementing this one. the commission must help: please, facilitate the transfer of best practice among member states and also ensure that minimum energy-performance standards are compatible whilst reflecting regional differences. we all know that, to rise to the challenge of energy saving, it is important that consumers both in the public and private sectors acknowledge and see the benefits which directly engaging with energy-saving initiatives can bring both in environmental and economic terms, but i will give you a warning because there has been an example in my own member state of gold-plating the directive, particularly in the requirements for energy performance certificates in public buildings, and this has added, in some cases, extra bureaucratic costs with little perceived energy saving and led to a loss of public support; that is regrettable. as a final point, all those who fear that the eu is facing an identity crisis at the moment should take heart from this report. there has been a unity of purpose and conviction from the beginning of my involvement – and i know that that goes back many years before i joined this parliament last summer. let us heed the lesson that the eu is strongest when we focus on core areas where value can be achieved by working together in a common interest.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am speaking this evening on behalf of the shadow rapporteur for my group, mrs mcclarkin, who has also been much engaged in following this dossier. i want to take us back, in line with what mrs rühle was saying. i completely agree with her on how the question of country-of-origin marking is going to be handled. in the proposals here, there have been some significant improvements about the straightforward core of the proposal: about how fibres are labelled, about how composition is labelled and about clarity of labelling. however, i notice that the rapporteur conspicuously failed to mentioned that this is actually a crucial internal market directive as well as a consumer protection directive, with the whole objective of simplifying the legislation, making it easier to get new names recognised and to get new textiles on the market – something like 12 months more quickly – and also, in connection with the work we are about to do on standardisation, giving a significant improvement there by bringing regulations under the basis of the european committee for standardisation, all of which will achieve significant savings to the industry as well as improve consumer benefits. the real question for the rapporteur is whether we want to put all those positive benefits at risk by attaching to this proposal an issue about country-of-origin marking, which – as mrs rühle quite rightly points out – has already been proposed by the commission on a whole range of products. i think that we should be very careful not to hold up the benefits. i agree we should make the political point and we should also be asking for some of the other things that he is asking for, but i think there are a number of aspects here where he has exceeded his role as rapporteur for this committee and it has become rather a christmas tree of some of his own ideas. i hope that he will take that on board in the vote tomorrow so that we can deliver the benefits for consumers and for manufacturers. make some political statements, but let us not hold this up unnecessarily.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the report describes itself, and i quote, as ‘essentially a technical exercise without major political implications’. the european commission never wastes a good crisis. likewise, the european parliament has also been adept in using technical reports to bring about a harmonised european superstate. it follows that the uk independence party regards this report with suspicion. however, the first part of the report brings three directives into a single regulation which would simplify. later, there is even a hint of a repeal. nevertheless, we strongly oppose the second part, in particular amendment 58, which intends new labelling requirements to be introduced at union level. i note especially the proposal for, and i quote, ‘an eu-wide uniform size labelling system for clothing and footwear’. we have a completely effective system for sizing in the uk. it is wholly different from the system which exists in most of continental europe. uk citizens know and understand it and it should not be changed for an eu-wide system. once again, a european parliament rapporteur intends to use a straightforward technical exercise to advance the wholly undemocratic goal of a european superstate.
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur for my group, but also as the chairman of the committee responsible, i want also to join in thanks to heide rühle for what is a really important report. indeed, it is a shame that under the rather strange rules of this parliament such an important report about a key element of the single market and indeed public policy is confined only to one-minute interventions. i think it is welcome that mr tajani is here because i want to say to him that public procurement is a key instrument for encouraging innovative enterprise across the european union. mr barnier, we know, is now going to have a look at strategy and i hope will pick up many of these things. but the core of the problem, colleagues, is that we have a regime which, as this report says, is confusing and complex and indeed which many public authorities regard as a bureaucratic imposition instead of an opportunity. we can use public procurement to drive forward areas like small and medium-sized enterprises, commissioner, and opportunities for innovation and green products and services – and, indeed, for supporting the whole of the innovation agenda. that is what we have to achieve, but it will need a concerted effort by all arms of the commission to deliver the recommendations in this report.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is always controversial when you discuss your own budget, and we have seen that in our discussions on the amending budget and in our own budget for 2011. however, i am pleased that most of the issues have now been resoved for 2011 within the committee on budgets itself. indeed i believe there are now very few differences between the committee on budgets and the bureau, apart from maybe three or four issues. one, of course, is the 20% threshold. another is the buildings reserve, another is the posts which have now been put into reserve and another is the second tranche of eur 1 500 per member per month for the assistants’ allowance. these two tranches of eur 1 500 per member are controversial and would be difficult at any time but are of course even more controversial in difficult economic times. this is even though we all recognise that the lisbon treaty has given us more responsibilities. it is because of this that a compromise has been reached to put the funding for the second tranche of eur 1 500 into a reserve and it will remain there until the full costings of this proposal are established. i think the other controversial issue for us which is outstanding is the office-holders allowance. the compromise reached here was to reduce the figure allocated for office holders down from eur 1.2 million to eur 400 000, and of course documented evidence of receipts must be provided when any claims are made. i think that is an important principle and one we would all want to support. colleagues themselves will decide whether these two compromises are acceptable to them or not. i believe the majority of the s&d group will find those compromises acceptable to them. one thing, however, has also become clear in our discussions on the 2011 budget, and that is if we are to fund extra responsibilities in the future because of the lisbon treaty we must also find efficiency savings elsewhere. for the 2011 budget some attempts at making these savings have been made. indeed, the overall increase has come down from 6.5% to around 5.8%. that is welcome, but i believe we need to do much more in the future. i hope that in the future the bureau will come forward with recommendations and proposals, not only about spending, but also about ways in which we can make efficiency savings in the future. i would hope those savings would include changes in the way we do things, rather than just making cuts. i believe it is important in the future that if the bureau does come forward – and i hope it will – with efficiency savings proposals, that it is discussed with members at an early stage. this will give the european parliament the chance to shape the budget, but also to shape our priorities and to identify savings ourselves, but in the mean time we should continue to work to ensure that our budget for 2011 is acceptable to members, to this parliament and, of course, to the public as well.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, once again i am appalled to see how the members of this parliament continue to demand budget increases while people in the member countries are struggling to live through the present crisis. but today i will refer to the ethics of this house. in the present situation, is it acceptable that, while they demand power to control national budgets, the european institutions want to increase their own administrative budgets, as is the case with this parliament? is it acceptable that the eu institutions go to the court of justice over the council’s decision to moderate the increase in salaries of eu civil servants? is it ethically acceptable for parliament to rush out its approval of the council’s 2008 accounts in exchange for the latter’s approval of parliament’s budget increases? let me explain: the budgetary control committee has voted unanimously against approving the council’s 2008 accounts due to a lack of transparency. coincidentally, the council has failed to approve budget increases for parliament. i guess that we will see parliament voting in favour of approving the council’s accounts this week, and shortly afterwards the council will be approving extra budget for the parliament. these votes, ladies and gentlemen of europe, the ones for parliament’s budget and the council’s discharge, are representative of the ethics of the institutions that aim to govern all of us.
madam president, across europe governments and public institutions are facing up to the need for cuts, but this parliament continues to live in a fairytale world. i hear fine words about the need for savings and efficiency, but the budget of over eur 1.7 billion in 2011 is an increase of nearly 6%. this is totally unacceptable. we should be talking about massive savings, not increases. there are many ways in which this could be done. for a start, we should be cutting unnecessary waste and expenditure. this house should demand that council end the strasbourg circus and save annual costs of over eur 200 million. a further eur 50 million would be saved every year by closing the european parliament offices in each of our countries. we must streamline the bureaucracy: the number of officials employed by parliament has increased by 14% to 6 000 in just three years. any other organisation in straitened times would meet new priorities with compensating reductions elsewhere. we seem to think that we live in a different world. we need to take the necessary steps to bring about real changes and real cuts in parliament’s budget.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, britain is not signed up to schengen, so technically this proposal should not apply to the uk. the old labour government did not opt in, and the new lib-dem/con coalition government must stay opted out. such a scheme would merely encourage more refugees, genuine or not, to come to the european union. imagine if turkey joins the european union: we can expect not just 72 million turks to have automatic right of entry to european countries and britain, but floods of refugees from places such as iran and iraq might cross the border into turkey and then seek resettlement in europe! britain does not have to join this scheme, but watching our new government grapple with such issues will be interesting. one half of it, the conservative party, pretends to be eurosceptic, whatever that means, while the other half, the liberal democratic party, is unreservedly europhile. however, our new prime minister, mr cameron, can solve such problems at a stroke as i described here yesterday. the increase in the numbers of members of this place requires a complete re-ratification of the lisbon treaty. mr cameron can simply choose not to re-ratify it, or he can belatedly uphold his cast-iron guarantee and give the british people the referendum on the lisbon treaty that they were denied.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur for a very good job of work. my group was also able to support the agreement in trialogue and i think it has found a good compromise. i believe the outermost regions of europe should be given the required support that they need where possible, in order to compensate for their location and the difficulties that entails. these regions have permanent handicaps and we need to recognise this. the economic crisis and the crisis in the dairy sector have affected these regions disproportionately in relation to most of the rest of europe, and that is why these regions deserve some special attention. i am particularly sympathetic to the situation in the azores, where the dairy sector is very important and has had serious difficulties. allowing the azores to export relatively small quantities of sugar to the eu has to be a good decision for the economic future of that particular region.
mr president, i am happy to see a report on helping agriculture in the outermost regions of europe. there is no doubt that geographical location, distance from markets and other such factors create many difficulties. the economic crisis has also had an impact. price volatility has been very significant and had a detrimental, and indeed destabilising, effect on farming not only in the outermost regions but in all areas of europe. however, i just want to address one very particular point to the commission today, and that is that the commission must be careful in its own actions not to disadvantage the european farmer and the european agricultural industry. in northern ireland the dairy and beef industry has been greatly affected by imports. this has resulted in price volatility and great financial losses for farmers. last week i attended the royal agricultural show in northern ireland. this is the largest show of its kind in the province, and farmer after farmer expressed very grave concerns at the attitude of the commission in reopening the mercosur trade talks. surely the commission, and we in this parliament, must be very careful not to sacrifice europe’s industry in order to have so-called ‘gains’ in other areas.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
madam president, in anticipation of your calling the next vote on the lehne report on deontology, may i please ask why this vote is being taken? it was due for debate last night under catch-the-eye. that was cancelled, so here we are voting on something which has not been debated, although it does not say so. for your information, madam president, when this came before the employment committee a short while ago, nobody on that committee knew what deontology meant until i tried to explain it to them – not even the chair! i think it is highly improper, therefore, to take a vote on this unknown, undebated motion.
i can tell you that it was debated in the committee on legal affairs, from whence it comes, and it has been through all the proper procedures, so i intend to proceed with the vote.
ms haug, thank you for that. it looks as though the leadership of your group is well aware of the situation.
madam president, i voted for this report, like many others who are actively engaged with farmers in their region. one of the key things we hear about all the time is the bureaucracy involved in the industry. so a key aspect of the new cap must be a reduction in the amount of red tape and bureaucracy. legislation must be meaningful to farmers and we must not restrict farmers from food production. however, not only streamlining of legislation is important but also flexibility for member states and, most importantly, with the commission and the european court of auditors. the european court of auditors has shown little to no flexibility, or indeed common sense, when applying penalties. this legislation needs urgent attention, and more common sense is needed. a financial review is also needed to assess the cost of farm inspections and the amount of money recovered in penalties, to see if this is actually value for money for the taxpayer.
mrs mcguinness, you were exactly right on the rules. i had thought that mrs alfano was going to carry on in a similar vein to mrs jäätteenmäki, but in fact that report should not have had any explanations of vote. you are correct.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues can agree with much of this report. we remain supportive of attempts to develop lifelong learning strategies and to promote vocational education and training (vet) and the better integration of key competences such as foreign language learning, mathematics and science. and we believe that the most important element is to ensure that labour markets are flexible enough to ensure that young people can gain employment. however, we cannot support the reference in this report for all migrant children to be taught in their mother tongue. it is our belief that this will be extremely unworkable, costly and inefficient, particularly in schools which have children from many diverse linguistic backgrounds and would do little to foster integration of migrants into local communities. in addition, education policy is and should remain the preserve of individual nation states. for this reason we voted against this report.
in writing. − i supported the report on a european youth strategy as i believe it will prove vital in getting young people into full-time employment over the coming years. with 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 out of work, it is clear that an effective strategy to combat the problem is needed. the problem of youth unemployment is not only due to the economic crisis; employers are looking for people with professional experience. i fully agree with the suggestion that higher education should be more effectively linked with the labour market. cooperation between member states is key to dealing with the problems of youth unemployment, which can have both heavy social and economic costs.
in writing. − the ecr group are strong proponents of working to bridge the gender gap for self-employed workers and their partners. we support the report’s aim, in that we would like to see all countries of the eu offering support and social protection to self-employed workers. however, we do oppose this legislation being made at eu level. the ecr group has always defended the principle of subsidiarity and strongly believes that member states should take the lead role in creating and driving employment legislation and social policy. for these reasons the ecr group has abstained on amendments 1-17.
in writing. − we voted against this report in accordance with ukip principles and on the basis that we support legislation only where it limits the power of the eu or returns it to nation states. any amendments which we felt unnecessarily harmed british farmers were not supported, as were any amendments that expanded eu control in this sector. ukip will continue to defend the interests of british farmers against eu interference, as we feel the british agricultural sector is perfectly capable of running its own affairs, and already has high standards of both quality and safety. ukip opposes the british taxpayer being forced to subsidise farms in other parts of europe which compete with our own farmers. ukip is committed to trade in agricultural produce under the terms of wto rules.
in writing. − we voted against this report in accordance with ukip principles and on the basis that we support legislation only where it limits the power of the eu or returns it to nation states. any amendments that we felt unnecessarily harmed british farmers were not supported, as were any amendments that expanded eu control in this sector. ukip will continue to defend the interests of british farmers against eu interference, as we feel the british agricultural sector is perfectly capable of running its own affairs, and already has high standards of both quality and safety. ukip opposes the way cap has historically been used in corrupt ways (e.g. phantom vineyards) or the way it is used to top-up the income of certain politicians in eu countries who own ‘farms’. ukip also objects to being forced to subsidise farms in other parts of europe, which compete with our own farmers. ukip is committed to trade in agricultural produce, under the terms of wto rules.
in writing. − ukip voted against the report on simplification of the cap because, although the implementation of the report would make the policy more comprehensible, transparent and workable, simplifying farm inspection, adding to flexibility to payment arrangements and making it more farmer-friendly, to do so is to keep the cap on track and potentially help to extend it for another generation! ukip therefore voted against the resolution as a whole, especially as it is without legislative impact.
madam president, we all support directives that help save lives, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work with a report that seems simple in principle but is in fact complicated in detail. in the area of post-mortem donations, there are issues of a delicate nature to be addressed, such as ethics, the deceased family’s positioning, the question of whether donor cards should be compulsory and, indeed, whether there should be a european donor card. all these areas need to be treated with respect as there is no right or wrong approach. the area of living donations has been the most challenging. there is an important red line that cannot be crossed and this line ensures that living donations can be made freely and with no financial gain. the directive has achieved the balance between ensuring a good quality of post mortem donations, while recognising the need for living donations. its strength is in its recognition that post-mortem donations alone cannot achieve the supply of organs needed and therefore has set up controls and guidelines to ensure that when living donations are made they are done in a correct manner, protecting both donor and recipient and ensuring that it is done on a free and voluntary basis. (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president, first of all i would like to thank both rapporteurs, who have worked very hard on these reports and have produced between them an excellent body of work and, within, a real plan for organ donation and transplantation throughout europe. we are all well aware of the figures – thousands of people across europe require organ transplants every year. in light of this i am glad to see that we are going to make concerted efforts to boost the numbers of organ-donor registers by encouraging different forms of registration schemes and strengthening our cross-border cooperation so that the best matches between donors and recipients can be made. for me, the key issue is raising awareness and i believe these reports will help achieve this. can i also say that i am glad to see that we have highlighted in these reports the key principles that organ donation should always be altruistic, voluntary and unpaid. this is important if we are to encourage people to donate and ensure the quality and safety of the system as a whole. many lives have been saved. many more can be. i commend this report.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the accession of the eu to the echr has been a long time coming. it is an essential piece of the jigsaw whose final picture is to be a superior rights regime fostered by the court of justice and enjoying the external supervision of the court at strasbourg. it is a necessarily complex measure because it is a quid pro quo for making binding the charter of fundamental rights. it signals an important fresh consensus between those like the traditional british, who have favoured the intergovernmental council of europe approach, and federalists such as me who have favoured the supranational approach. such a twinning is extremely appropriate at this time of coalition politics in the uk between the british liberal democrat and conservative parties.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, my group is committed to protecting human rights, but we are not convinced that allowing the eu to sign the convention is wise. given that every member state is already a signatory to the convention, what benefit is there to the eu signing as well? i should be very pleased if someone in this chamber could give me a practical example of how the human rights of one of my constituents will be better protected as a result of the eu signing the convention. at present, member states are not required to make the convention directly applicable within their domestic law. i want to be reassured that if the eu signs the convention that position will not change. i do not want the power of the british parliament to change the way we decide to protect human rights to be undermined. my suspicion is that one of the motives behind this proposal is a desire to enhance the status of the eu to show it is a player on the international stage. in my view, that is a very good reason not to permit the eu to sign the convention.
madam president, the rapporteur states in his report that the accession to the echr will afford citizens protection against the actions of the union. i would be far more interested in protecting the residents of my constituency, the west midlands in the uk, against the action of the convention on human rights. of course in the uk we incorporated this into our law in 1998, allowing the echr to have effect in all our courts. in the manifesto of the new conservative government it was promised that they would repeal the human rights act but, as they should have known, lisbon made the eu a legal entity and the eu has greater powers than the electorate of the united kingdom. we are reminded of george orwell. the writing is on the wall and, as we know, some people are more equal than others when it comes to human rights. earlier this month, my constituents in meriden and hatton suffered invasions by so-called ‘travellers’, who have broken the peace and who are building unauthorised and possibly illegal developments on what little remains of our precious green-belt land. thanks to the convention on human rights, these travellers have special protected rights. they have priority in health care and education, all at the expense of local taxpayers! the rapporteur wants us to involve our national courts and ministries of justice in this process. i say that the convention on human rights has done enough damage already. perhaps the rapporteur would like to visit my constituency and witness at first hand the desecration of our land. perhaps he would like to speak to the hardworking villagers who have seen the value of their homes plummet. he can inspect the lines of police drafted in to keep the peace and of course preserve the special rights of the travellers. he could even enjoy the spectacle of 90 lorries laden with gravel churning up the country lanes where parents walk with their children. he might help residents as they rush to install security equipment in anticipation of the surge in criminal activity that often accompanies such developments. of course these are but small tragedies and are nothing when compared to the important political project that is the european union, but let us consider that when we propose special rights on one group of citizens we automatically degrade the rights of others. the convention on human rights has degraded the rights of my constituents. it should not be up to unelected officials to decide who is special and who is not. we have a newly elected government in the uk which has made promises in this area. in the name of democracy let them carry out those promises!
madam president, my national party, the british conservatives – for those who do not know, i am a conservative – has expressed serious concerns in the past about the icc and its enforcement of international criminal jurisprudence, as encapsulated in the rome statute, in the areas of crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide. however, the 10th anniversary of the statute’s entry into force does offer us now an opportunity to make a clear assessment of the role of the icc and, in my view, the court has, to its credit, stuck rigidly to its brief, eschewing mischievous prosecutions and seeking to arraign only the most serious tyrants. the court’s chief prosecutor, luis moreno-ocampo, has skilfully helped the court to strengthen its impartiality globally. the aggressive pursuit of politically motivated cases has, thankfully, failed to materialise, which was one of the big worries of our american allies. britain joined the icc under the previous labour administration. perhaps the recent establishment of a conservative-liberal coalition in the uk last week offers us now a chance to reassess britain’s relationship with the icc and, at kampala, to amend some of the disputed areas, like command responsibility. we cannot allow the uk’s vital national interests to be compromised by the icc, but, at the same time, we should also recognise that in certain circumstances the icc may have a constructive role to play in ending a climate of impunity for genocidal dictators.
madam president, the european union signing up to the council of europe’s convention on human rights will be followed by legislation that will make the convention part of european union law, as well as being another organisation’s document as an external benchmark. that means that the eu’s court in luxembourg will have the jurisdiction to interpret and enforce two potentially competing documents – the eu’s charter and the council’s convention. i have asked several experts in the committee on constitutional affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs what would happen if there should be a conflict between the two documents or between different sections of the same document. which document or which section would take precedence? i was told, first of all, that the document or section that granted the greater amount of freedom would take precedence over the one that granted the lesser amount of freedom. i later asked what would be decided if there should be two parties to a dispute and each claimed different but competing, and possibly contradictory, rights – for example the right to practise one’s religion without being offended and the right of freedom of expression involving criticism of the tenets of followers of a religion. this is not entirely theoretical as the case of the danish cartoons illustrates. this was the case of the dog that did not bark or rather the expert who did not venture an opinion. the silence was as deafening as it was clear for all to hear and to understand. free speech will always be sacrificed because that is the eu’s default position. denying free speech is what the eu does best! we are talking about two different categories of right – the political right of freedom of expression against prosecution by the state and the right not to be offended by criticism. the right not to be offended is considered to be much more important than the right to debate a matter of public interest. should there be no restrictions on freedom of speech? there should be restrictions on those who incite violence, but criticism that falls short of that should be free from interference from the criminal law.
madam president, i am proud to be chairing this parliament’s delegation to the review conference for the international criminal court, to celebrate how its establishment has helped build global justice and fight impunity for crimes against humanity and to represent our european union’s determination, in our common foreign and security policy, to work towards the court’s universal jurisdiction. in calling for better access to justice for victims, we should acknowledge that 15 of the 24 countries worldwide who have contributed to the trust fund for victims are our own eu member states – but we should also note with humility that that means 12 eu members have not given such funding and that 14 of our countries have neither designated national contact points nor responded to the annual survey, as required by the charter. universal jurisdiction abroad starts with universal implementation here at home and, madam president, i have to regret that one of the first decisions of the uk’s new coalition government is to go to the review conference to oppose jurisdiction for the crime of aggression and to resist belgium’s proposal to include the use of prohibited weapons in internal conflict as a war crime. aggression, the unlawful use of force against another state, was prosecuted by the nuremberg and tokyo tribunals at the end of the second world war, and i find it hard to understand why the icc should not be used to prosecute the war crimes of the 21st century. meanwhile, how they justify saying that the use of poison gas or dumdum bullets is illegal if going across a border but not if staying within it, i do not understand. they are saying that when saddam hussein gassed the marsh arabs, or when demonstrators in gaza are shot with bullets that intentionally break into shrapnel inside their bodies, the perpetrators are able to do so free from the fear of being held to account. quite simply, they are wrong.
madam president, for me the best bit of the action plan is the list of five concrete measures regarding rights of the individual in criminal proceedings that comprise the road map endorsed by the stockholm programme. i speak as rapporteur on the first of these measures on interpretation and translation for defendants on which, i am pleased to say, i reached provisional agreement with the spanish presidency this very morning and i hope that our respective institutions will endorse that result. i do thank commissioner reding for her staunch support as we drew solidly on the commission proposal and commission representatives made a full contribution, so my personal thanks to her. we are finally, a decade overdue, but finally building the mutual trust necessary for mutual recognition. my support for the european arrest warrant is qualified by my dismay and indeed anger at some miscarriages of justice and the way it currently operates such as in the cases of gary mann and andrew symeou that i am involved in. if we had these measures in place a decade ago i believe those miscarriages of justice would not be happening.
madam president, dame sarah ludford said that she had some concerns about miscarriages of justice in relation to the european arrest warrant, in the cases of andrew symeou and gary mann. that is an understatement if ever there was one! the european arrest warrant is a gross miscarriage of justice in itself. extradition has been reduced to a mere bureaucratic formality. british courts have been stripped of their ability to protect british citizens from unjust arrest and imprisonment when they are extradited to a foreign country. i know because i sat in the appeal court in the case of andrew symeou when two senior law lords were unable to prevent the extradition of mr symeou, even though it was obvious to everybody in the court that the evidence was either non-existent or fabricated by the police. but of course that is the whole point, because the court is not allowed to look at the evidence; they have no right. dame sarah and the lib dems can cry crocodile tears now over cases like mr symeou, but they have to bear responsibility for the human misery which they have caused.
the next item is question time (b7-0211/2010). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
commissioner, does not the original question demonstrate the scale of the problem you face when addressing this issue? many members here and many governments represented in the council just do not accept the need for urgent action to prevent climate change. it is easy for them to sign up to pious resolutions at a time of economic prosperity, but, now that is not the case, they are reluctant to sign up to practical action. do you not need to address the problem of climate-change denial if you are to raise our ambitions?
question 18 by lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg (h-0220/10) subject: action by the commission on copyright article 118 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which gives the union competence to legislate in the field of intellectual property rights, stipulates that: 'in the context of the establishment and functioning of the internal market, the european parliament and the council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall establish measures for the creation of european intellectual property rights to provide uniform protection of intellectual property rights throughout the union and for the setting up of centralised union-wide authorisation, coordination and supervision arrangements'. the lack of a single eu legal framework governing copyright is a major barrier to the development of an internal market in copyrighted goods. what initiatives does the commission intend to take in the area of copyright, pursuant to article 118 of the tfeu?
question 19 by alan kelly (h-0190/10) subject: the eu's state aid map would the commission be open to a wholescale review of the eu’s state aid map for the period 2007-2013? while there will be a review this year, is it true that the state aid map review only allows a form of ‘exchange’ as opposed to redesignating regions to reflect new economic realities following the financial crisis? the current state aid map was agreed based on statistics from 2006. the european economy is now radically different. would the commission accept that this fact represents a weakness in the current map and how does it feel it can be addressed?
question 20 by bernd posselt (h-0179/10) subject: eu-ukraine police cooperation how is cross-border police cooperation developing between the eu and its most important neighbour to the east, ukraine, and what measures is the commission planning to take to step up cooperation?
question 21 by georgios papanikolaou (h-0184/10) subject: spiralling crime rates in europe according to eurostat data published a few months ago, there has been a major increase in the level of crime and violence in europe directly linked to the economic crisis and therefore affecting with particular frequency those countries facing the most serious economic problems. does the commission intend to take bolder steps with a view to achieving more effective cooperation between the member states in preventing and combating crime in europe, given the need to defend the individual liberties of european citizens?
question 22 by pavel poc (h-0185/10) subject: a common eu visa policy under article 77(2)(a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and pursuant to secondary legislation published on this legal basis, namely council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 oj l81, 21.3.2001, p. 1 of 15 march 2001 (as amended) determining the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement, member states are bound to apply a uniform visa policy and reciprocity. does the european commission understand 'common visa policy' solely to mean laying down uniform rules for third countries within the internal eu area? or is it the case that this article of the treaty on european union – in addition to dealing with visa policy towards third countries – can also be understood as binding the european commission and eu member states to seek to achieve common conditions for all eu member states in third countries?
question 23 by nikolaos chountis (h-0205/10) subject: unresolved issues in the turkey-eu joint statement of 5 november 2009 bearing in mind:the joint statement issued by mr atalay, the turkish minister of the interior, mr barrot, vice-president of the commission, and mr billström, representing the eu council presidency, on 5 november 2009, in particular point (3) which refers to the resumption of the formal negotiations on the turkey-ec readmission agreement and point (5) which states that agreement has now been reached at technical level on the working arrangement between turkey and frontex;the answer given by ms malmström, president-in-office of the council, to my question no. h-0431/09 before the plenary sitting of the european parliament on 16 december 2009; andthe constant harassment of frontex aircraft by turkish aircraft; will the commission say: what stage has been reached in negotiations on point (3) of the joint statement? is there any linkage with the discussions with frontex? is the harassment of frontex aircraft linked to turkey's refusal explicitly to recognise the eu's aegean borders?
question 24 by sarah ludford (h-0236/10) subject: eu counter-terrorism policies and cia rendition a number of recent developments have shed more light on member state involvement in the us rendition programme. a 2010 un joint study has revealed that eu member states colluded with and participated in activities relating to the cia rendition programme and secret prisons http://www2.ohchr.org/english/bodies/hrcouncil/docs/13session/a-hrc-13-42.pdf . given these numerous abuses of power over the past eight years by member states, and in the light of the commission's proposed communication on a stocktaking of counter-terrorism policies, can the commission provide details of specific measures it plans to take to ensure that eu counter-terrorism policies prevent such abuses in the future?
author. − commissioner malmström, i think never has the phrase ‘poacher turned gamekeeper’ been more appropriate, and i always welcomed working with you on these issues. i think what you said is somewhat encouraging in that it signals some strengthening in the oversight and mechanisms that the commission will have for the future, but the fact is that there is the past. member states participated in illegal cia rendition, torture and disappearance, and there was a lack of oversight and accountability. there was a lot of rhetoric about human rights, just as there is now, but a huge gap between rhetoric and reality. we still do not have a full calling to account. are there things that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, can think of that could still be done not only to try and make sure that member states respect their obligations in the future, but how we can still get investigations – including, i very much hope, a proper public inquiry now under the new uk government – to make sure that we know fully what happened in the past and what went wrong?
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question 25 by marian harkin (h-0188/10) subject: entrepreneurs and smes in the light of the upcoming sme week (25 may - 1 june 2010) and the european enterprise awards (31 may) – can the commission give an update on the implementation of the small business act particularly with regard to measures on investment readiness of entrepreneurs, improving their access to finance, reducing administrative burdens and in particular on member states’ initiatives and policy decisions to help smes tackle problems which hamper their development? question 26 by jim higgins (h-0198/10) subject: smes does the commission have any plans to introduce measures to help existing smes across the eu who are struggling, and would the commission consider introducing a special scheme to help young entrepreneurs trying to create successful smes in the union, thus reducing the eu’s reliance on fdi in order to boost industry? question 27 by gay mitchell (h-0213/10) subject: smes and job creation it is widely recognised that small and medium-sized enterprises are the key to reducing unemployment in europe, yet they face a disproportionate regulatory burden when compared to larger companies due to economies of scale. if every sme in europe could create one job tomorrow, this would have an enormously positive effect on employment levels. what is the commission doing to promote job creation through smes with, for example, regulatory reform and investment? what targets has the commission set and how will it propose to monitor these targets? question 28 by liam aylward (h-0225/10) subject: european sme weeknext week is the european sme week. its aim is to promote entrepreneurship, innovation and competitiveness and to provide information concerning the work being done by the european union and the authorities at all levels to support and fund microenterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. the greatest challenge being faced by small and medium-sized enterprises at the present is securing capital and funding. there are many small enterprises, small family businesses and start-ups which were very successful but are now vulnerable because they cannot secure capital. what can be done at european level to solve this problem? question 29 by brian crowley (h-0234/10) subject: measures to reduce administrative costs for smes can the commission outline what measures it is undertaking in order to reduce unnecessary administrative costs for small to medium-sized enterprises in the european union?
i think it extremely unlikely that we will get to question 33. if you are waiting for that, i would not do so. mr tajani will now give a single reply and, after that, i will give the questioners – and other colleagues – the opportunity to ask a supplementary question. may i make the point that we are going to finish at 20.30 because the staff and the interpreters have to have something to eat before we resume at 21.00.
i apologise to colleagues for the rather shortened question time because the previous debate overran by 25 minutes. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.30 and resumed at 21.00.)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i welcome the statement from the commissioner. the world has watched in amazement, both at the immense flow of gas and oil from the ruptured pipe following the explosion and disaster in the gulf of mexico and at the seeming inability of both the industry and the us authorities to stem the flow; we must hope that recent developments will prove successful. we have had, as colleagues have mentioned, our own experience of platform disasters in the north sea. i think of piper alpha as one example, and i believe that lessons have been learned from that. but let us remember that there is a significant difference between the depth of sea in which they are operating in the gulf of mexico and the depth of the north sea. let me urge that we are cautious and do not rush into new legislation. let us be certain as to what happened. let us be certain whether our existing rules would have prevented it happening here, and let us be certain that any new rules would prevent it happening. accidents and acts of god do happen, and we cannot guarantee to prevent them. there has to be a limit to what we can do in order to prevent them. i would like to give you a final thought, when we are considering relative risk: that accidents like this put the relative safety of nuclear energy into a different perspective.
madam president, we are all aware of the horrendous disruption caused, and continuing to be caused, by the volcanic ash cloud. more than 100 000 flights have been cancelled and around 12 million passengers have not been able to travel as planned. goods and cargo have been delayed or not transported at all and businesses, both large and small, have been affected. our european airlines and airports have suffered catastrophic financial losses. i believe that european airlines alone have lost more than eur 2 billion. in all this chaos one thing is clear: air transport is enormously important for the european economy, and as individuals we depend on a thriving and efficient air transport industry where safety for crew and passengers is the first prerogative. as such, i applaud the decision of the commission to respond decisively following the compulsory grounding of the european air transport sector. the commission has recognised the need not only to consider financial compensation, but also the necessity to speed up the implementation of sesar measures. as a general rule i believe that the state should not artificially support business. risk, as we all know and accept, is part of running a business. however, these are exceptional circumstances. we have not seen such sustained disruption to the industry with such enormous financial losses since 9/11 and, notwithstanding the financial difficulties currently facing all member states, i would urge them to back plans to support an industry which simply cannot sustain further losses. the question now is, what can and should be done in future to deal with such crises? firstly, airlines must be involved in discussions about possible airspace closures from the outset. secondly the sesar package must be brought forward in a sensible fashion. i still have some reservations about the creation of a network manager. i am not fundamentally opposed to the idea, but i strongly believe some questions remain to be answered. for example, what would be the exact role? to whom would this person be accountable? how would this improve the current situation? i look forward to serious debate on the issue, commissioner, before any legislation is implemented, as a knee-jerk response could prove more damaging than intended. i also think it would be wise to look at north america and elsewhere to see how they deal with the issue of volcanic ash. in the uk we apply the same terms of reference as the icao, but the americans use a different method to calculate the ash drift. they seem to apply a more measured approach and i believe that we could perhaps learn something there. in addition, we must remember that when decisions are made in the eu regarding closing eu airspace, the impact of such decisions does not stop at our borders, and discussions with the remainder of the icap countries must take place. finally, as european policy-makers we have a responsibility to develop a viable long-term strategic vision for aviation in the eu, taking into account the international dimension. i believe we should support the establishment of measures to improve risk management, settling justified compensation claims without distortion of competition, as well as promoting well-balanced, cost effective structural reforms.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it has sadly become a characteristic of some of those who speak in support of the european union to believe that the solution to every problem is more integration. this approach misses the point. what europe too often lacks is not extra mechanisms to implement agreed policies, but rather the political will to fulfil commitments which have already been made but not executed. i therefore earnestly hope that the europe 2020 initiative, which is certainly necessary to deal with the underlying economic crisis faced by europe, does not fail on the same basis. concerning the eurozone crisis, however, we are told that, to avoid similar crises in the future, the union needs powers to call for the prior presentation of draft budgets by sovereign governments and to impose tougher sanctions on member states – but budget information was already supposed to be available; it was just inaccurate and poorly scrutinised. would the quality of information and the competence of those analysing the data improve just because a more demanding procedure was introduced? sanctions were previously available; they simply lacked credibility. increasing their scope does not make them any more likely to be imposed. would the new measures be taken any more seriously? furthermore, issuing debt, which risks increasing the eu budget and directly guaranteeing eu lending, is a major departure that undermines the principles of sound public finance which we are supposed here to be reinforcing. in the ecr we want the euro to be a success for the sake both of those who choose to join and of those in the wider european economy, but this requires member states to take their responsibilities seriously, to be honest with each other and to fulfil their agreed commitments. by its own admission, the commission believes its proposals will lead to a substantial deepening of economic and monetary union. it is little wonder that, whereas the english version of the text of the march summit referred to ‘governance’, which is what the commission has also referred to, the french version referred to ‘government’. it seems that, for some, a centralised european economic ‘government’ is indeed the ambition, but this would not address the problems we face: it would be bad for our citizens, for our member states and, i say, for the european union itself.
mr president, when you became president of this house last year, you said that you would treat all groups equally. i have noticed in this interesting debate that mr schulz ran two minutes over – all the groups ran over – but you picked on one group. could you explain why this is?
mr president, we can all recall the pompous presentation made by the spanish prime minister earlier this year. however spain is now following greece with a deficit of 11% in gdp. the eu bureaucracy immediately looks around to find someone to blame, but the fact is that it is this bureaucracy that is responsible for the crisis because it brought countries into the eurozone in the knowledge that their economies were not up to speed – or do we employ 1 000 people in eurostat just to be a data collector? the hedge funds may be taking advantage of the situation, but they did not cause the crisis. the eu now demands cost reductions, but is it realistic to expect the cost of the public sector in greece to be reduced if 20% of the working population is employed by the state and 50% of smes have the state as its only client? now a rescue package has been put forward but the reality is that most of the countries supposed to contribute to it do not have money to do so, such as is the case of the uk. in any case the eu always takes the opportunity... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, we are in a situation of our own governments’ making; it is not as though rules were not there to prevent these crises happening in the first place. if rules such as the stability and growth pact and the maastricht criteria had been adhered to, we would not have the level of debt crisis that we currently have in many member states. i find myself in the very strange situation of drawing parallels between the behaviour and financial skills of our member states’ governments and those of our investment banks. we sit on the committee for economic and monetary affairs every week discussing the inappropriate behaviour of our banks, saying they have not obeyed the rules or they have applied them flexibly with financially engineered accounting measures. this is exactly what our governments have also been doing. we demand responsible corporate governance and yet the level of off-balance-sheet finance vehicles, special-purpose vehicles and undeclared contingent liabilities that our governments are engaged in does not show how to conduct responsible governance. in the uk we have been shocked at the difference between the declared deficit of the outgoing government and what we have actually found once the books have been opened up. new leadership in the uk gives us a clear mandate to reassess the true state of finances. i really do hope that the rest of europe can also do the same; restate their finances and find a way forwards.
mr president, the economic crisis is not a temporary illness from which eu members will soon recover to full economic health. there are systemic flaws in the approach to economic policy of the eu and its member states. the goal of a single currency, eventually for 27 plus countries, is based on the false assumption that one currency can be appropriate for many very different economics. the value of a currency must reflect the state of health of the economy it serves. however, there are other distinct problems. the embrace of globalisation by the eu and its individual member states is a recipe for disaster. we cannot allow goods and workers from low-wage countries to flood into europe. we cannot compete with their goods without reducing our wage rates to their levels. legal minimum-wage levels will not prevent our workers being undercut covertly by migrant workers, the outsourcing of the work of our peoples or by moving our manufacturing to the third world.
mr president, i rise on a point of order to enquire whether it is going to become a precedent that we are to find, on our desks in this house, items of information relating to motions to sign. regardless of the merits or otherwise of the case, surely it is to be deplored that we get junk put on our places over which we have no control whatsoever. can you please stop it? (applause)
mr president, on a point of order, can you confirm that voting for amendment 4 will succeed in reducing the number of times that we visit strasbourg but at the same time will comply with our treaty obligation to hold 12 sessions? (applause)
mr president, in amendment 3 i simply want to replace the word ‘notes’ with the word ‘welcomes’.
mr president, i very much welcome this report and the new european rules for organ donation. if you die in another european union country, why should your organ not be used to save life? if you need a rare match from another european country, surely these rules are sensible to implement. although it has not been part of the debate, i would also like to put on record my personal support for an opt-out rather than an opt-in system for organ donation. eighty per cent of european citizens say they support organ donation, yet only twelve per cent hold organ donation cards. we have to close the gap. last year 25 people in my east of england regional constituency died because they were on the organ donor waiting list but no donor could be found in time. at addenbrooke’s and papworth hospitals in my constituency, we have european and worldwide expertise in lung and heart transplants. let our surgeons do their work. let our patients be treated. this is the gift of life.
in writing. − ukip believes that ongoing development and improvement in the present international network of facilities and agencies for organ exchange will not be facilitated by the eu’s attempts to invade and regulate this network. on the contrary, organ donation in the few countries where there are many donors is likely to decrease if demand for organs from the many countries where there are few donors becomes eu-mandatory. in the latter countries, moreover, the resulting relative abundance of foreign organs is likely to reduce organ donation there also. consequently, ukip members voted against this report.
in writing. − i was pleased to support this report in its vote through parliament. within the south-east of england many families are victims of the harsh reality of a poor supply of organs necessary for transplantation. this report assists in creating an eu cross-border standard which could provide for an improved supply into and across the eu so that such families of individuals needing organs can be more easily met with the hope of relieving their conditions.
in writing. − a permanent shortage of organs for transplantation hampers the wonderful efforts of health care professionals to help patients. it is also a sad fact that there is a shortage of donors, and that this drives some vile criminal activities. to seek to address these problems by creating an eu-wide database is, however, a mistake. it is naive to place hopes in a database covering the whole of the eu, with all its different languages and it systems, when the failed attempt to produce a health service database for the uk alone has wasted billions of pounds. health services across europe are unable even to fund basics, and face savage cuts as ordinary citizens pay for the bust of globalism. this being so, far more can be done to encourage organ donations by investing in education programmes at national levels, than by diverting funds to pay for well-intentioned bureaucratic meddling. additionally, there are tight time constraints on organ viability. thus an eu-wide network would be of use to very few patients. proposals to set one up are another pretty-sounding excuse for the further advance of an agenda that has nothing to do with patients’ welfare and everything to do with federalist dogma.
in writing. − i am supportive of the echr while recognising that judicial interpretations of certain provisions of the convention have created obstacles to the deportation of terrorist suspects. this needs to change. notwithstanding any statements of respect for the position of member states in relation to echr, eu accession to the convention will complicate and possibly hinder the freedom of member states to derogate from or individually interpret aspects of the echr. politically, i fundamentally object to the driving motive of eu accession to echr as ‘a move forward in the process of european integration [involving] one further step towards political union’. this misconceived aspiration is further underlined in the statement that eu accession constitutes ‘an accession of a non-state party to a legal instrument created for states’. for all these reasons i voted against the resolution.
author. − mr president, the eu 2020 strategy proposes action to enhance the performance of education systems, reinforce the attractiveness of europe’s higher education, open up more mobility and training programmes for young people, modernise labour markets, boost labour mobility and develop skills and competences to increase labour market participation. this has been endorsed by the spring council, which stated that key objectives requiring action at eu level included better conditions for research and development, improved education levels, a reduction in early school leavers and increased participation of youth, older workers and low-skilled workers in the labour market. however, the global economic crisis has led to budget cuts in the education sector in member states across the european union. for instance, latvia is suffering a deep economic crisis and it has faced severe budget cuts in the country’s 34 higher education institutions with a threatened 50% cutback to the higher-education budget. irish universities face a 6% cut, and britain is not exempt from this because in england the higher education funding council reckons there may be a cut of up to eur 500 million from higher education. this is not all doom and gloom. some member states, such as france, have been doing well, but the problem is that there is a divergent level of funding across member states. in order for the eu 2020 strategy to work we need a strong, coordinated approach. i am therefore asking for the commission to explain, firstly, how it intends to ensure that member states make good on their commitments to the educational goals in the 2020 strategy by ensuring that this area receives sufficient support and funding and is not forgotten amid the rush to balance the books in the light of the economic crisis and, secondly, how it intends to secure extra budgetary means for these important eu-level strategies and programmes.
mr president, i would like to ask mr karas if the united states of europe to which he referred in his speech is going to take place with the consent of the peoples of europe or without the consent of the peoples of europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all, on behalf of my group, i particularly wanted to welcome all the reports, but especially the report from mr grech, for which i was the shadow rapporteur in the committee. i want to refer to some points on that in a moment but i just want to support what mrs berès said about the wide-ranging nature of the debate this afternoon. but on the other hand it is rather an unfocused debate. there are some really important contributions from many colleagues but, frankly, and i say this to the commission and commissioner barnier, this also reflects the nature of the eu 2020 document. it has lots of great ideas in but it is very unfocused and it is also very underdeveloped at this stage. he talked about the seven flagship initiatives. well, we do not know the details of those yet. so the first point i make is, please, can we ensure that the council does not adopt in detail this proposal at its next meeting in june, because it is not ready to be adopted? we need to spend more time on it together to work through the details. my second point is that i think we need to make the relaunch of the single market an eighth flagship initiative. that will not be overcomplicating things because it ought to be the number one initiative. colleagues, you heard from mr grech that the potential is there to create jobs, to encourage more innovation and to move towards a more sustainable economy but we need to get the support of citizens and consumers for this proposal. it was like the question addressed to mr karas just now by the earl of dartmouth. citizens need to buy into that process, but it is there for them to do. they will get the benefits. we have this instrument of huge potential and, particularly with public budgets still amounting to 16% of the european economy, why are we not using our public procurement budgets to drive innovation, to buy those new technologies, to encourage smes to take those up? it is the biggest single underdeveloped policy that we have. we heard from mr barnier and mr grech today, and we made a contribution with mr monti’s report. we have the instruments, but we need to carry them out.
mr president, doubtless the 2020 strategy says lots of interesting things, but, under enlargement, by 2020 five new countries will have joined the eu and more likely eight. already in the eu of 2010, 12 countries are net contributors to the eu. the other 15 member states are subsidised. none of the new countries are likely to be contributors. in 2020, therefore, there are likely to be no less than 23 countries being subsidised. by 2020, therefore, the eu will have become, in practice, a transfer union, which transfers money from 12 contributing countries to 23 subsidised countries. unfortunately and unfairly, the uk taxpayer is caught up in this. the comparatively impoverished uk is the second largest contributor to the eu budget. at the last provincial elections in germany the voters of north rhine-westphalia said ‘no’ to their coalition and were also saying ‘no’ to the transfer union. voters in other contributing countries will also say ‘no’ in the next 10 years. by 2020, the gap will be unbridgeable. it is not in the uk’s national interest for there to be economic chaos across the channel but, unless enlargement stops forthwith, economic chaos is what there will be. the 2020 strategy, therefore, misses the point.
mr president, the central component of eu 2020 should not be stabilisation funds and bailouts. it should be a new strategy that all of our countries should want to follow to re-launch and re-energise the internal market of the eu. we need to be looking at how to change our economies so that they are fit for those challenges. the only way forward is to look at new industries via research, development and innovation. the eu should be encouraging a new economic dynamism in the european research area, creating networks for excellence, research clusters for integrated projects based on innovation in new products and services, looking at new processes and technologies and new business concepts. we should be looking at existing successful projects and using eu links to find best practice. in my own constituency, i visited glyndŵr university, which has fostered direct links with hi-tech firms in north wales, achieving a 90% graduate placement, even last year. it has not just improved the job prospects of the young people who attend, but it has revitalised an entire region of north wales. instead of looking at the billion-dollar projects and silver-bullet solutions, we need to get back to the nuts and bolts of what makes a successful economy. south wales has five significant pharmaceutical development companies with world-class technology. with a little eu assistance, this hi-tech company cluster could be elevated to being a world-class centre, lifting an entire economy that currently qualifies for cohesion funds into a brighter future. we need solutions to work effectively for our citizens.
mr president, i welcome many of the aims of the eu 2020 strategy: the focus on growth led by innovative businesses, on sustainable growth and on achieving high employment. however, to achieve this, the eu must not just talk the talk: we need to walk the walk. for example, when undertaking the essential reforms of financial services, we must remember that innovative businesses and those employers need access to capital in global markets. our member states also need to access those global capital markets and, whilst all eyes are focused on the european stabilisation fund, and whether it has achieved any current reduction in the immediate volatility, fundamentally, long-term confidence will only be achieved if, as well as this ambitious growth, our deficits are brought under control and public finances themselves are seen to be sustainable.
mr president, we have quite rightly heard a lot about economic recovery in the commission’s proposal for the eu 2020 strategy but not enough, in my opinion, about poverty, and that is why i was delighted that you mentioned poverty reduction in your speech. we have to remember that the most vulnerable in society suffer in any economic recession more than anyone else, and that is why we have to put in place mechanisms to protect them. for instance, i would like to see a target of a 25% reduction of eu citizens living in poverty, as well as ensuring that those who are currently excluded from the labour market can gain access to good-quality work, and that, at the same time, we have targets to eradicate undeclared work. we must also make sure that member states invest in social security and social protection systems as well as guaranteeing access to rights, resources and universal services. i would also like to see an eu-wide target to end street homelessness by 2015 by member states, and to develop integrated homelessness strategies. in all these areas, not only should parliament be consulted more – and i was pleased that you did mention that – but ngos working in the field as well. as far as the open method of coordination is concerned in the social field, it needs to be strengthened. we all know it has not worked as well as it could have done, but i believe it can work well in the future if the right mechanisms are put into place – but only if those mechanisms are put into place.
mr president, i have seen for myself how important cohesion policy is for wales and i, therefore, welcome the lastra report on cohesion policy and europe 2020. there are many projects right across wales that are benefiting individuals and communities. so, i have no doubt that structural funds can help deliver the 2020 goals. however, i would like to make the following points. the 2020 strategy, the fifth cohesion report and the budget must all be aligned. in future, structural funds should be properly financed, the structural funds should not be renationalised and the transitional status should be made available to those regions that fall out of convergent status. if we can achieve all these things, i certainly believe that the cohesion policy can help us deliver 2020. it would also make the eu 2020 strategy relevant to individuals and citizens right across europe.
madam president, on page 7 of the europe 2020 document it says: ‘europe has many strengths: we can count on the talent and creativity of our people’. it does not of course say that other people are less talented or creative – that would be terribly unkind and almost certainly unfair – but it certainly singles out the population of europe for special praise. elsewhere it bemoans the fact that europe has an ageing population. this of course is attributable mainly to sharply falling birth-rates, though the document does not say so. perhaps nation states should encourage, as far as states can, a rise in the birth-rates of their populations. this would certainly redress the population balance. furthermore it might even produce at least a proportionate increase in those talented and creative people who are so necessary for economic and cultural development. i do hope i am not tainting the commission document by linking its parts with reasoned argument, but i have kept within my time limit!
the item is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday 20 may 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by pál schmitt, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on university-business dialogue: a new partnership for the modernisation of europe’s universities (com(2009)0158 – 2009/2099(ini)) (a7-0108/2010).
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, why does this report seek more international cooperation at university level? universities have shared information with each other for centuries, before the eu existed. the renaissance, spanning the 14th to 17th centuries, was a surge in intellectual development spreading from florence right across europe through the universities. the arts, music, literature and the sciences became vibrant and spawned countless works which enrich us still today. so what of modernisation? do you look for the technological developments of the future? if so, the scene today is just as promising. universities elsewhere may be overtaking us, but they owe their beginnings to european universities. this tide of higher education often returns home. the universities of britain take postgraduate students from across the world, pursuing their studies further and sharing their information, not least with commerce and industry. but we do not need to politicise higher education through programmes such as the bologna and the erasmus processes. we do not need programmes on multiculturalism or multilingualism or any other ‘-ism’, that will happen anyway as students from around the world meet and mix on campus. if you wish to serve the modern and future worlds, see that universities are funded properly, encourage those students who wish to study abroad, then simply leave them all alone to get on with it.
madam president, most of us here are agreed that we should be supporting our universities and supporting our young people. although i believe – as i think most of us do – that universities are, and should be, autonomous, of course they also live in the real world and need to take account of what happens in the real world, not least because their students will be leaving them to get jobs in the real world. i think that is really what we are talking about. we are talking about how the universities can maintain their academic excellence, yet prepare their students for work. that is why this dialogue – the contact between universities and the business sector – is so very important, why we have spent such a long time working it through and why mr schmitt spent such a long time writing this report. what we need is a real dialogue between employers, and employers at all levels, i think. i agree that smes are important but i think we are also looking at talking to large corporations and also to the public sector, to government employers at national, regional and at local level, the health sector and really all those who employ people, because it is in that way that we will make sure that we get the level of graduate unemployment down and we give our young people a chance. within this, it is very important that we maintain adequate levels of state funding for universities – something which i know in some member states is becoming more and more of an issue. unless we get that money and unless universities are properly and adequately funded, we will not have balanced courses, we will not have balanced discipline and we will not be able to give our students the chances that they need. so i urge everyone to support this important report and to vote for it so that we can go forward and have a bright future for universities, for students and for employers.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i fought hard to prevent the premature closure of units 3 and 4 of kozloduy. their closure several years ahead of time was not necessary; it was certainly not on safety grounds. the effect, as predicted, has been increased use of environmentally unfriendly lignite-fuelled power stations, an increase in electricity prices and a cut in bulgaria’s electricity exports: in other words, both economic and environmental damage. we are now paying for mistaken judgements within the european union institutions. it is only right, therefore, that bulgaria should be treated at least as well by the european union as other countries that have had to close prematurely their ageing nuclear facilities, and i am glad that the commission recognises this. a lot of money, of course, is involved in this decommissioning process. it is vitally important that these funds are properly and efficiently spent and accounted for. i hope the commission can give us assurance on this. it is also important to address the issue of compensating for and replacing lost energy capacity. bulgaria will need assistance in creating sustainable new capacity that ensures security of supply and diversification, so that bulgaria is not reliant on the goodwill of one foreign power.
mr president, own-initiative reports are usually just hot air, but if adopted they are an expression of the political will of the european parliament. this report proposes the setting up of a union of 17 non-eu countries with a parliamentary assembly and a secretariat with funding for projects of a truly ambitious nature. the funding of these schemes would run into many billions of euros, which of course would have to be paid for by the citizens of europe. where this money would come from is not mentioned; the reality is not allowed to intrude on fantasy. this report is truly bonkers! but, before we laugh it off, we should remember that, under the treaty of lisbon, the european union has the legal right to sign the kind of treaties envisaged here. this report proposes the setting up of a union of non-european countries that could be later absorbed into the union; that is what this report is really all about.
mr president, president sarkozy’s proposal for a union for the mediterranean was the highpoint of the french presidency of the eu. since then it appears to have lost some of its lustre. this may not be a bad thing, because the eu is itself developing a robust and successful southern dimension of its own neighbourhood policy. this follows almost two decades of the development of the barcelona process and its political apparatus. europe’s taxpayers rightly take a very dim view of duplication of effort and waste of resources, and there is some confusion about all these competing processes, but whatever the fate of the union for the mediterranean at the summit on 8 june, we must not allow the eastern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy to fall behind. sadly, we have not developed the putative euronest assembly in the same way as the euromed assembly which has been active for so long. this is principally because of the problems relating to belarus’ participation. lastly, my ecr group fully supports mr albertini, as chair of the committee on foreign affairs, to resile from leading the visit to the middle east. this has been controversial and discussed this morning in the enlarged bureau. any vote of no confidence in the chair of the committee on foreign affairs by the socialist group we will oppose.
mr president, i will leave aside the most pertinent question this morning, and that is: how on earth are european taxpayers going to pay for all of the apparatus and secretariat that has been talked about and proposed in this house this morning? i want to give my view that there is no doubt that stability in the mediterranean is certainly good for the wider european union. however, with european union help comes responsibility from the very countries that want to benefit from the institutions and the enhanced economic opportunities. i want to focus very quickly on one aspect, and that is the rejection of a thousand tonnes of seed potatoes from northern ireland by the moroccan authorities this year; a trade that had been going on for over 20 years; potatoes that had been inspected according to the normal rules before they left my country and then were rejected by the moroccan authorities under a different regime. i do understand – and i respect – that commissioner de gucht is looking into this matter, but i want to stress that we do need responsibility from those who hope to benefit.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as the kirilov report makes clear, the countries of the south caucasus are strategically important to our union, not least in terms of energy security, e.g. caspian oil and gas production and transit through the countries of the region. sadly, however, this region remains paralysed by frozen conflicts, the most recent of which is of course russia’s de facto occupation of abkhazia and south ossetia, which in our view are georgian sovereign territory. we cannot, in terms of eu-russia relations, simply pretend that this did not happen . through the mechanisms of the enp’s eastern partnership we must now of course redouble our efforts to reward georgia’s determined efforts to realise its euro-atlanticist aspirations, and i and my group fully support an fta eventually, visa liberalisation and association agreements for all the countries in the south caucasus. as a strong friend of armenia, i am glad that the final version of the report is more balanced than the initial ones. however, i still remain concerned about elements of the report which appear to contradict the eu’s official position on the resolution of the nagorno-karabakh issue and the minsk group’s position in particular. armenia has now made courageous efforts to resolve this long-standing impasse over nagorno-karabakh. it has also sought to normalise relations with turkey, a move which should stabilise the south caucasus. if only turkey itself would respond in a similarly constructive manner without preconditions. if this border could be reopened it would not only relieve the embargo on long-suffering armenia, which has gone on far too long, but also allow economic prosperity in a very poor and underdeveloped region of eastern turkey. so there is enlightened self-interest for turkey to move on this issue. it is not credible in my view that turkey can justify the permanent closure of this border with armenia because of its so-called solidarity with its turkic brother, azerbaijan, over the unresolved nk dispute. this is as logical as saying that greece should shut down its border in thrace with turkey in solidarity with the greek cypriots over the turkish occupation of cyprus. we in the eu believe in open borders and free trade as a sine qua non for peace and stability on our continent and also in the south caucasus.
mr president, i congratulate mr kirilov and mr kazak on their work. if our relations are seen purely through the prism of our need for oil and gas we will exacerbate tensions and fail to achieve security in other senses. it is the need for peace and economic development in the south caucasus which should drive our policy; that means engaging with nato to ensure their new strategic concept reflects this, engaging with russia and turkey as powers in the region to seek to maximise agreement and extending the true hand of friendship to the people through association agreements and visa arrangements and so on. we should welcome the statement of mr medvedev and mr yanukovych on moldova, which shows how much can be achieved through diplomacy, and i congratulate commissioner füle on the development of the eastern neighbourhood partnership so far. i look forward, as the european union develops a common foreign and security policy, to a more active engagement of the union on all aspects of relations with the black sea region.
mr president, i welcome this report on public finances. it is a vast improvement on the first draft. high debt and deficit levels are a grave concern to the uk and across many member states. we must wean ourselves off fiscal stimuli and quantitative easing, and these should not be the accepted norm. there is a need to focus on overcoming our high unemployment levels now and reducing the tax burden on employment and smes. resources are scarce and we agree that, where money is available, it should be directed to growth boosting investments, such as r&d and greener, smarter innovation. finally, we cannot hide from our issue of ever-ageing populations. pension schemes must be transparent and taken into account when looking at public debt. there are some issues that i was wary of in this report. migration, for example, needs to be handled sensitively. it can meet certain gaps in the labour force but must be controlled and take into account local factors. yes, i agree that european problems do need european solutions, but we must be aware of the global economy and must respect the fundamental powers of our national governments too.
mr president, i voted against the own-initiative report on the union for the mediterranean for a number of reasons. there is no doubt that a stable mediterranean is a huge prize for the wider europe. however, at a time when the economic climate across europe is perilous, it is entirely inappropriate that this house should contemplate the expense associated with such a plan. grand meetings of heads of state, a 40-strong secretariat and neighbourhood packages do not represent a frugal economic policy at this particular time. furthermore, i opposed amendment 5 for asking that the upgrading of eu-israel relations under the preferential economic association agreement should not proceed. in the delicate balance that is required from europe, such calls will do nothing to give confidence to israel that this house will act as an honest broker.
in writing. − ukip regards the safety of nuclear power generation as being of great importance, but perceives the eu’s assistance to bulgaria, ostensibly for this purpose, as being motivated by political considerations (preventing the reprocessing of fissile material, conveniently close to bulgaria, in neighbouring russia) and doctrinaire ones (the imposition of unrealistic wind-power policies) as well as by a desire to fund local conservation projects, which are not relevant to the remit of decommissioning. consequently, ukip members have voted against the extra funding asked for in this report.
in writing. − we oppose the union for the mediterranean. this would facilitate mass immigration from impoverished countries in north africa. it would also allow north african al-qaeda operatives in these countries to more easily enter europe and carry out terrorist attacks. we also note the way the eu grants morocco privileged economic status, despite that country's violent occupation of western sahara and the plundering of its resources.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on religious freedom in pakistansee minutes..
author. − madam president, pakistan’s inability to develop a strong and enduring democracy has impacted – quite severely, in my view – on religious freedom in that country. successive leaders have used islam to justify repression of minorities and justify autocracy, particularly of a military nature, although recent government efforts to remedy this must be recognised. pakistan’s constitution, although nominally upholding religious freedom, still allows for laws such as the blasphemy laws, which are discriminatory towards non-muslims, and the persecution of shia and ahmadiyya minorities is a common feature. the emphasis on religious identity that was the basis for the foundation of pakistan, and its creation, sadly appears to foster a climate of intolerance and often even violence towards those outside the religious mainstream. the proliferation of deobandi madrasahs, preaching messages of hatred against the west, has created an environment in which extremism and fundamentalism flourish and too many eu citizens – including from my own country, the uk – have gone through their clutches. the clearest manifestation of this is the pakistani taliban, a terrorist movement whose intentions were again made only too clear recently in the, mercifully failed, times square bomb plot in new york. i fear personally that nothing will change in pakistan until that country develops an education and political system that truly supports the principles of religious freedom, tolerance and equality.
colleagues, i would like to remind you all that we are going to be short of time this afternoon, and everybody that goes over time detracts from the number of one-minute catch-the-eye interventions that we will be able to take.
we now move to the catch-the-eye part of the debate. i have had far more requests than we can accommodate. we are only meant to have two minutes. i am going to take four speakers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on thailandsee minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on burma see minutes..
author. − madam president, what more can we say about burma that has not already been said, including calling again for the release of political prisoners like aung san suu kyi who has become a global icon in the struggle for freedom? this resolution, like many before it in this house, chronicles the brutal repression of the burmese people led by a military junta they never elected and have fought very hard to get rid of for many years. the way in which this junta is now cynically trying to hold sham elections such as to ensure the opposition will be muzzled is entirely characteristic of these generals and the way in which they arrogantly disregard the opinions not only of the burmese people – their own people – but of democratic leaders around the free world. despite this resolution’s focus on immediate events in burma, i urge the council and commission also to give due consideration to how best to support burma when it is finally free and democratic once again. burma will need our help, not least to develop a strong civil society and a legal system which should focus on transitional justice for the many crimes committed by the junta. that may all seem a long way away, but if the brave people of burma can learn anything from us in this parliament in europe, it is that the light of liberty can never be extinguished by tyranny and that the freedom that is their inalienable right will surely once again be theirs one day.
mr mann, i understand your frustration. i dislike not being able to give members the floor on issues of such importance, but you are also correct in saying that it would require a change to our rules of procedure. the other thing i would say is that, during the debates, if all members who spoke kept to their speaking time, then we would be able to take more people under catch-the-eye. that, i am afraid, is the problem, but your comments have been noted. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 16.30.)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i thank the rapporteur for her work, but i have come here to ask for a drastic reduction of the budget for 2011. the crisis we are going through requires the european union to tighten its belt as much as or more than the member states. looking to increase the budget with the argument that we are investing in programmes to get europe out of the crisis is not honest – even less so when we look at the results of the programmes on which the eu has spent taxpayers’ money in the last decades. would we be in such a crisis if the eu had spent the money efficiently? those who believe they have a right to get salary increases while their counterparts in the member states are suffering reductions or losing jobs are wrong. those who believe we can continue to spend more and more at european union level without anybody noticing are wrong. please, let us stop this waste of taxpayers’ money now.
mr president, we remain in an unprecedented economic crisis, and across europe ordinary people feel the pain. twenty-three million residents are unemployed, and those lucky enough to have jobs know that they will work for longer, earn less and pay more in taxes to repay unsustainable public debts. austerity did not start in greece or ireland. there are pay cuts or freezes in spain, italy, portugal, the uk and others. germany has announced eur 60 billion of tax rises and spending cuts. last week the dutch people went to the polls and voted for austerity, and the french are debating raising their retirement age. european institutions like this one must not be immune to our citizens’ pain. it is vital that we recognise what our member states are doing to control their own budgets. we must approach our own with the same sense of responsibility and realism. our amendment 34 asks the eu to lead by example. this year, make sure that there is no unessential spending, hold back from unaffordable increases and return savings to our member states. we were voted and elected to listen to the people. now is not the time to be deaf to their cries.
rapporteur. − madam president, can i say, as i begin, i think we should really call these not ‘millennium development goals’, but ‘millennium development challenges’. so often the word runs off our tongue – ‘the mdgs’ – but do we ever actually revisit what they are? back in the year 2000 when we were going through economic boom times, we made promises and we made commitments. sadly, colleagues, those commitments have not yet been achieved. we are five years away from the date that we set, 2015, when we would tackle these major challenges. let me restate them: the major challenges are extreme poverty and hunger, access to universal primary education, gender equality, child mortality, maternal health, aids, malaria and tb, environmental sustainability and global partnership for development: eight millennium development challenges which still remain challenges. and now, during this week, the eu will come together to hopefully forge a united position ahead of the september plenary at the united nations in new york. but i have to say the signs are worrying. there is a lack of commitment to that 0.7% of our gross national income that we said we would commit to taking on these challenges. in some of the least developed countries we are slipping way, way away from the targets that we need to be reaching mid-way through. there has been some progress and, yes, the investment that we have made – and i use that term wisely – the investment that we have made so far has paid off. the maternal health improvements are there. child mortality rates are low, low, low and, yes, the numbers of children dying are gradually decreasing. but our problem is that, not only do we need more money to tackle these commitments, we now need additional finances to tackle the problems associated with climate change which are bedevilling the positions that we are taking in the developing countries and the least developed countries. and that is why in my report i have looked at not only what we have done so far, but how much more we need to do. and that means looking at the big problem we have in the european institutions of policies, on the one hand, that want to deliver positive change and policies, on the other, which contradict and undermine that. think of trade, think of the common agricultural policy, think of the common fisheries policy. without policy coherence our investment in these countries will never pay off. and it is investment. it is in our long-term economic interest to get rid of these mdgs, to achieve them and get rid of these problems that curse individual lives across the world. so what i want to see is leadership from the eu. not the minimum set that they can agree on, but a commitment to that 0.7% of gross national income, a commitment to additional financing; and we do not want a redefinition of overseas development assistance. there must be no tinkering at the edges. so we have an interesting debate tonight. i want to thank the ngos across europe for supporting my report. i wish us tonight and especially in the vote tomorrow to put aside our political differences. it will not be a perfect report; nothing produced by this house ever is, but let me say this: let us not now use party political differences to take away from ourselves the opportunity to go for a united position at the united nations and achieve the mdgs by 2015.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, our rapporteur has done an excellent job and has made an appeal for parliament to give 100% support to the report and to our efforts at the un. my group is quite happy to give 99.9% support, with a few differences of opinion. we keep talking about mdgs. what are these mdgs? well actually there are eight millennium development goals, and i think we should have had more. had we had more, we would have achieved some of the targets that we have been trying to achieve faster. one of the things that is most important in eradicating poverty is to have stakeholderships, to be able to own something, to have property or to own a small business. members have travelled abroad and have seen millions and millions of slums in developing countries and hundreds and thousands of small businesses – garages, shops, repair shops, various people doing various things – at the side of the road as they travel in air-conditioned cars. the trouble is that none of those slums and none of those businesses are registered. they do not have a capital value. should we be able to recapitalise those properties and those businesses, we would put nine trillion dollars’ worth of capital assets into the hands of the leaders of the developing countries. yes, nine trillion. that is larger than the entire debt that we have been worrying about in europe and more than value of the stock markets in new york, london and tokyo. however, we have not found a way to capitalise on those properties and those businesses. they are outside the legal system. had we been able to do that, we would have been able to eliminate poverty faster. this is what has happened in other parts of the world.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, no one could fail to agree with the millennium development goals formulated in 2000, and no one could fail to be astounded by the complete lack of reality in believing that such goals could be achieved by the target date of 2015. quite apart from the totally unrealistic timescales to achieve these gargantuan tasks, there is the amount of money that the report now says should be spent. where is the money to come from? most countries in europe, including britain, are on the verge of bankruptcy, and only stringent public spending cuts will reverse the situation. in these circumstances the way to help poorer countries become more prosperous and alleviate their multitude of social ills is to stimulate the world economy. we should not be thinking of more ways to tax those businesses that still make profits and drive them abroad beyond the eu’s control. what we should do is the following: relax eu trade barriers and protectionist measures that restrict trade with poorer nations; dismantle the ever-increasing burden of regulation and red tape that is strangling businesses across europe; abolish the european single currency and allow countries like portugal, italy, ireland, greece and spain to return to the world of economic reality. and, of course, britain should leave the european union as soon as possible.
rapporteur. − madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your closing words. i absolutely agree with you. it has been an interesting debate. i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs, who i have really enjoyed working with – mr svensson, mr donskis, mrs sargentini, mrs zimmer and all of the others. my memory sadly escapes me – it is something to do with age. let me say about age – i do not want to live more years and witness more suffering, more hunger, more poverty, and increasing mortality rates amongst women giving birth and amongst children under five. i want us to see these mdgs achieved. i would say to those who have spoken with some reservation about elements of this report: let us not turn around to our citizens and say that we failed to agree and we failed to vote in favour of that report because it had elements within it that i could not vote for. what kind of signal does it send to people living in poverty and deprivation – without water, without access to health care, without access to education, without access to an equal life – that somehow in a debate in brussels there were elements within a report that prevented us from doing the right thing for the majority of this planet? i urge all the colleagues here today to please vote in favour of this report tomorrow – not for me, because michael cashman will go back to a home with running water, with health care, will be loved and hopefully be nursed into amnesia and old age. but think of that child or that woman dying in childbirth, think of that child dying through malaria or diarrhoea or tb or aids or hiv, and of the young woman denied access to education so that she cannot empower herself for the rest of her life. think not of us here but think of those outside.
rapporteur. − madam president, it has been recognised by most of us for over a decade that the eu needed to act to strengthen the rights of suspects and defendants throughout the union and to give safeguards necessary to ensure fair trials. this is in the context of much tighter cooperation on policing and prosecution, the introduction of the european arrest warrant and the fact that many eu citizens take advantage of free movement rights and may have a brush with the law in an unfamiliar environment. there was an attempt at a comprehensive measure on so-called procedural guarantees, one that meps strongly supported, but that ran up against a brick wall in the council in 2007. i was delighted that last year the commission (and i am delighted to see vice-president reding here for this debate), supported by the swedish presidency, revived the matter in the form of a road map of half a dozen individual measures. this is the first to see the light of day. this directive says that, if you become a suspect or you are arrested, questioned or put on trial and you do not understand the language of the country, you have a right to interpretation and translation, under certain conditions, for police questioning, hearings, meetings with your lawyer and so on. broadly speaking, you have to be put in the same position as a local. the basis of cooperation between member states in criminal justice is mutual recognition, the almost automatic recognition of the decisions of courts in other eu countries based on mutual trust, but it is not sensible just to assume that trust exists. it has to be earned through full respect by all eu countries of certain standards of justice and fair trial. all of us in this debate have probably dealt with cases where we do not believe someone got a fair trial. i have recently dealt with the case of garry mann, who was returned to portugal under a european arrest warrant. in the original trial both the charge and sentence were delivered orally. mr mann did not know what he was charged with until after he was convicted. the interpreter was a local hairdresser, a friend of the judge’s wife. when he was deported back to the uk he was given a simple letter in english effectively saying not to come back to portugal for two years, yet years later a european arrest warrant was issued to summon him back to serve sentence. lack of a proper and professional language support has also figured as one of the defects in the case i am dealing with in greece of andrew symeou. the aim of this measure is not only to make sure that member states are implementing article 6 of the european convention, but also to further develop its minimum standards. as the road map last november said, there is room for further action on the part of the eu to ensure full implementation in respect of convention standards and, where appropriate, to ensure consistent application of those standards and to raise them. i believe parliament made good use of its newly acquired lisbon treaty powers of joint responsibility for legislation. we fought hard with a lot of help from vice-president reding, to whom i pay tribute, and her officials, to raise standards on certain key points, including interpretation of communications between the suspect and the lawyer in all phases of the proceedings, the right for the suspect to challenge the decision that there is no need for interpretation or translation, and also the right to complain on quality. we secured the right to limit recourse to partial translation, so all essential material must be translated and oral exceptions must indeed be exceptions, and that the suspect should not be allowed to waive the right to translation without prior advice. those are just some of the key points. to sum up, i believe strongly in the european arrest warrant, but we need the road-map programme to strengthen citizens’ rights and make it work better. strengthening safeguards and defence rights is not at all about being soft on crime. it is about being tough on crime. good efficient justice through high-quality decisions means catching more criminals, and cutting corners on costs is not best value since if you get a poor court decision or bad police practice, then people are going to appeal. cheap justice is no justice. i therefore commend this directive to you. i thank the spanish presidency, with whom we have a good process of negotiation as well as with the commission, and i will deal in my summing-up with the plenary amendments being tabled.
madam president, i should like to ask mrs romero whether it has occurred to her that citizens in countries with much higher standards of individual rights, for example, the united kingdom, are subjected to the much lower standards of individual rights prevalent in other european countries under the european arrest warrant and the other european justice directives. has that occurred to you?
a uachtaráin, tháinig mórcheist amháin chun suntais dom rómhall chun leasuithe a chur síos sa choiste – coiste nach bhfuil mé i mo bhall de. baineann sé seo leis na teangacha atá clúdaithe ag an treoir. is mór againn an tagairt do ‘ateangaireacht agus aistriúchán … i dteanga dhúchais an té atá cúisithe nó amhrasta’ i bpointe 10(e) sa téacs comhaontaithe. tá baol ann, áfach, gur féidir an fhoráil ‘nó i dteanga eile ar bith a thuigeann sé’ a úsáid chun rogha na dteangacha a shrianadh agus chun tabhairt ar an té atá cúisithe nó amhrasta teanga a úsáid nach dá rogha féin í, teanga lena bhféadfar é nó í a chur faoi mhíbhuntáiste nuair a bhítear ag déileáil le ceisteanna dlíthiúla ar féidir leo bheith casta. an féidir leis an gcoimisinéir a gheallstan nach amhlaidh an cás agus a gheallstan go mbaineann an treoir seo le teangacha mionlaigh fosta? tagraíonn ár leasuithe d’ionstraimí éagsúla idirnáisiúnta agus eorpacha maidir le húsáid teangacha mionlacha agus réigiúnacha. go háirithe, tagraímid d’airteagal 21 den chairt um chearta bunúsacha, a chumhdaíonn, i measc nithe eile, an prionsabal de neamh-idirdhealú maidir le rogha teanga. tá súil againn go soiléireoidh na leasuithe an cheist seo faoi theangacha, nach bhfágfaidh siad aon amhras ann agus go dtacófar leo.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, this directive is one of a series whose total effect is that every citizen and resident of the united kingdom is subject to being carted off to jail in other european countries. whether the country is portugal, in the case of garry mann, or hungary, in the case of two south-western constituents, there is simply not the same legal protection for the individual as pertains in the united kingdom – whatever illusions have been pedalled in this chamber. therefore this translation directive is a fig leaf. it is trying to stick plaster over the near-decapitation of britain’s hard-won liberties at the hand of the european arrest warrant. i would note that, even in its own terms, this directive is flawed. the decision as to what is relevant for translation lies largely with the prosecutor. moreover, there is a chronic and absolute shortage of translators and interpreters, not least because the institutions of the european union absorb so many. our distinguished colleague, baroness ludford, has characterised herself many times as a campaigner for human rights. i would ask her, therefore, just this once to put aside her obsession with a federal europe and join our campaign to repeal the european arrest warrant. that is what matters.
madam president, the fundamental problem with the european arrest warrant is not inadequate translation services, but rather that it has rendered national courts completely powerless to protect their own citizens against unjust extradition in the first place. my constituent andrew symeou has been held for 11 months awaiting trial in the greek prison of korydallos. six more british citizens, including daniel bell and george hollands, face extradition and remand in korydallos. the british court is not even allowed to consider the so-called evidence against them. in korydallos, prisoners are kept four to a cell designed for one, the toilet is a hole in the corner, no toilet paper is supplied, drugs and violence are rife and the screams of rape victims can be heard at night. the british government should be ashamed of itself that, on the strength of a piece of paper, it is prepared to consign british citizens to what can only be described as a shithole.
madam president, it is self-evidently right that people facing criminal proceedings should have interpretation and translation services, especially since the european arrest warrant allows people to be extradited for acts that are not even offences in their own country. however, this is one of the unspoken costs of large-scale migration – one that was not admitted at the time that it started.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like very sincerely to thank my high-quality shadow rapporteurs for their help. i am pleased we are debating and voting this directive this week, still under the spanish presidency. it is historic, being the first criminal justice measure negotiated under codecision and the first eu fair trial law. i strongly agree with vice-president reding about the three-year implementation period. it was very cheeky of member states to slip this in unilaterally after we had reached a council-parliament deal. they will not get away with it again. i say to ukip that there is no call to get nationalistic about the quality of justice. i am strongly critical of the lower uk standards that developed over the last decade like control orders, which are house arrest, and 20-day detention without charge. i hope the new government returns fully to the rule of law. i am very pleased that my country and ireland have exercised their opt-in to participate, so this directive will cover 26 countries. this directive is in the spirit of magna carta, habeas corpus and the bill of rights, whereas ukip would let bank robbers and terrorists escape justice. turning to the amendments, mrs de brún explained the amendments on the rights to use european regional or minority languages. while having sympathy with their motivation, i have to oppose them because they do not in fact fit the directive. the test in the directive is one of comprehension and ability to express oneself, as vice-president reding said. it is not about the right to choose as such, so there has to be a procedure of verification of the person’s ability to speak and understand and, if they do not accept the language offered, the option would be to challenge the decision. member state national laws specifying minority language rights are unaffected, although in practice those rights are arguably increased in that if the speaker of a minority language is unable to understand the proceedings then the directive’s rights apply equally to them. i ask that the directive be passed unamended and quickly so that it gets on the statute book. i look forward to commission proposals on the further road map measures – the first expected in about a fortnight – and i know that in the hands of our feisty champion, vice-president reding, they are in very good hands. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
madam president, baroness ludford has said in the past in these debates that somehow ukip and i personally want to make life easier for gangsters and bank robbers on the costa del sol. she has mentioned that kind of thing again. baroness ludford, can i ask you: do you actually have a figure for the number of criminals and bank robbers who have been returned to britain from the costa del sol since the european arrest warrant has been in operation?
rapporteur. − madam president, no, but i am sure i can research that and let mr batten know the figure. in return, mr batten, can i ask a question of you who, like me, represents london? hussain osman, one of the attempted bombers in london in july 2005 escaped to italy, no doubt hoping to disappear there. in the past, he might have languished for years without being brought back to court. he was brought back within six weeks. he was convicted and he is now serving a sentence under a terrorism conviction. you, i suppose, would have been happy that he would never have been brought back to trial.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 june 2010. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by edward scicluna, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on adoption by estonia of the euro on 1 january 2011 (com(2010)0239 – 2010/0135(nle)) (a7-0182/2010).
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr scicluna, for his clear and comprehensive report. we fully support his conclusions. during this time of unprecedented economic turmoil across the globe following the financial crisis of 2008-09, it is a testament to the financial skill and fiscal discipline of the estonian government that they have qualified for euro entry. their ability to keep their public deficit in check despite the high pressures of unemployment is to be applauded. it is my opinion that, if any member state meets the stringent criteria for euro entry and if it is their wish to join the eurozone even at this turbulent time, then it is ultimately a decision for their constituents and i wish them well in their chosen journey.
madam president, many think that congratulations should be given to estonia; i offer the estonian people my commiserations. the value of a country’s currency must reflect the relative demand for its exported and imported goods and services, as well as other monetary movements, and must change according to need. a country tied to a currency value that does not reflect the needs of its economy will find that any economic problems are aggravated. the united kingdom found this when we were members of the predecessor of the euro, the exchange rate mechanism. we found ourselves locked not only into a single currency value, but also into a recession from which we escaped only when we left the erm. the scicluna report congratulates estonia on replacing current and capital account deficits with current and capital account surpluses. this appears to be good news, but there are dangers on the horizon. this surplus might result in the commission and the european central bank setting the kroon-euro rate at too high a level. if estonia then suffered a decline in the value of its exports relative to imports, a recession and balance of payments deficit would follow from which it would not be able to escape. estonia will lose its monetary and fiscal sovereignty, and therefore political sovereignty, which is ironic for a country that only 19 years ago escaped from the clutches of the soviet union.
madam president, the fact that mr brons, who spoke earlier in the debate, dribbled out his words and then promptly left speaks volumes for the interest that he and his party really show in this debate. the interesting point about estonia’s adhesion to the euro is that it is a vote of confidence in estonia and a vote of confidence in the euro. the euro has come in for much criticism, especially and predictably in the anglo-saxon press. the reality is that without the euro, and without the budgetary discipline shown by countries like estonia, there would be no hope for any of us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 june 2010. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – president,in these difficult economic times it easy to overlook how far europe has come in recent years. just twenty years ago, estonia was part of the soviet union; today it stands ready to join the euro zone. we must not underestimate the difficulties which all of europe - whether in or out of the single currency - faces. nevertheless, estonia faces the challenges as an independent nation within the eu and will accordingly be a key player in finding the solutions. i look forward to scottish independence when the people of scotland will also have a full role to play in europe's future.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
madam president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to the current situation facing the regional government in northern ireland, which is confronted with a fine in excess of eur 60 million filed by the commission in relation to so-called errors on how subsidies have been allocated to farmers. i want to make it very clear that, whilst i fully understand that proper procedures must be adhered to, the misallocated monies amount to around eur 3 million over a five-year period, so i would argue that this decision is a grossly unfair one and imposes a flat-rate fine rather than being proportional. we are all acutely aware of the budgetary constraints faced by government departments all over europe and, by any stretch of the imagination, public finances in northern ireland will undoubtedly suffer because of this. i do not know where the ultimate blame lies, but i know it is not necessarily with the farmers who did not do it deliberately, or with the department or whoever, but it is the northern ireland budget that is having to pay for this at a time when they cannot afford it.
madam president, i want to bring before this house my concern at recent increasingly levels of terrorism in northern ireland. some members may be aware of the recent murder of bobby moffat. mr moffat was gunned down by those believed to be connected with so-called loyalist paramilitaries in mid-afternoon on belfast’s shankhill road while people, young and old, shopped, going about their daily business. the perpetrators of this cowardly deed, whilst few in number, believe justice can be administered through murder, beatings and intimidation. in recent days, a senior commander in the police service of northern ireland stated that the threat from republican terrorism was at its most severe level for many years. i am sure members will join with me in saying that this parliament stands with the good people of belfast’s shankhill road and the vast majority of the people in northern ireland in expressing disgust at this murder and will stand with them in opposing terrorism in all its forms.
madam president, i rise to draw attention to the blockade in the indian state of manipur. highway 39, which links the state to the rest of india, has been blockaded since 12 april. this has prevented food and fuel and medical supplies from reaching some two and a half million people; hospitals have been forced to stop all but emergency operations; the prices of essential goods are up by 300% on a black market; and half a million children under the age of eight are among the worst hit. the road has been blockaded by naga tribespeople and particularly by the all naga students’ association. i hope the house will join me in urging the indian government urgently to seek a negotiated settlement, including the repeal of the armed forces special powers act, to put an end to a humanitarian crisis which is almost as serious as that in gaza.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by werner langen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on derivatives markets: future policy actions (com(2009)0563 – 2010/2008(ini)) (a7-0187/2010).
madam president, i welcome mr langen’s report as part of the difficult path towards effective regulation of derivative products. it has been clearly shown that the lack of transparency in this field can cause the build-up of unknown risk in our financial system. however, mr langen’s report also recognises that derivative products also serve the opposite purpose of dispersing risks for businesses, small and large, which are going to be the foundation of economic recovery in europe. i am glad that parliament has clearly voiced its opinion that many end users should be exempt not just from clearing, but from collateralisation and capital requirements as well. although i do not agree with everything in mr langen’s final report, particularly with regard to the banning of certain types of products, as i believe this needs considerably more research to avoid the financial innovators finding simple way of rebranding or engineering even more complex products to get around overly prescriptive rules, i am, however, confident that the process of european and global law-making continues and that we will come up with a workable and effective solution for derivative instruments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 15 june 2010).
the next item is the report by maria badia i cutchet, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the internet of things (com(2009)0278 – 2009/2224(ini)) a7-0154/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 15 june 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by francisco sosa wagner, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on internet governance: the next steps (com(2009)0277 – 2009/2229(ini)) (a7-0185/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 15 june 2010). our thanks to all the interpreters and staff. written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the position of this group has been consistent throughout; my position as rapporteur has been consistent ever since 2002 when we first proposed the inclusion of self-employed and independent drivers. we remain convinced that that needs to be the case, and i very much hope therefore that the proposal to reject the commission’s proposal will be agreed in the vote tomorrow, just as it was in plenary last spring and in the employment committee this march. we very much regret the confusion the rapporteur appears to have encountered in discharging her mandate. rather than reflecting and promoting the clear majority views of members of the european parliament’s employment committee, she has actively worked to promote the view of the commission and council. the other institutions, as mme berès has said, have shown not one gram of loyal cooperation but instead have gone out of their way to subvert the very clear employment committee recommendation to the plenary: the rejection of the commission’s proposal. madam president, a tired driver is a dangerous driver, irrespective of employment status; we should not make road travel any more of a gamble than it already is. once again this morning, the rapporteur has shown confusion between the notions of driving time and working time. it is quite possible under the existing regime for a self-employed, a ‘false’ self-employed, driver, to drive between 86 and 95 hours per week; perhaps not every week, but one week is enough of a danger in itself. if the commissioner doubts that figure he can come to see me any time he likes; i have the figures from the people working in the sector. this is a fact. we must reject the commission’s proposal.
madam president, it is vital that self-employed workers remain free of the clutches of the working time directive in this way. this area of work is already heavily regulated via the driving time regulations and to listen to people saying that people are driven into self-employed work is utterly ludicrous; it is a choice that people make. the only thing bogus in all these discussions is the scaremongering claims of people saying that there are road safety dangers associated here. we talk here endlessly about promoting entrepreneurs; we talk about allowing them to flourish in the european union. we are here actively encouraging small businesses, and to discourage them simply cannot be the way forward. so i would urge you to vote with edit bauer.
madam president, it is essential that amendment 30, with special regard to paragraph 7(a), be adopted. self-employed drivers would not then be included in these provisions. it is not a road safety issue. all drivers are limited to driving times and associated work monitored by the tachograph. including the self-employed drivers will penalise them, especially those who do not use an agency. company drivers have their schedule provided, but true independents spend time preparing their own schedules and bidding for new business. if included in these provisions, those tasks will be part of their working week so they will have less time to drive, load, unload and cater for passengers, as compared to the commercially employed drivers. thus will business be lost and unemployment caused in the small business sector. the bigger operator will take up the slack and we will have another example of the eu promoting big business at the expense of the smes who employ half the workforce. i therefore support the rapporteur in amendment 30 as well as the commission in this respect. you do not hear that very often from this part of the house.
madam president, extending the working time directive to cover self-employed people is nonsensical. it is window-dressed to protect employees’ rights and therefore has no place in a self-employed framework. it is also unenforceable without infringing people’s liberties by carrying out checks in their homes. this is not a matter of road safety. regulation (ec) no 561/2006 already covers driving time and is applicable to large companies, small businesses and the self-employed. you still need an operator’s licence to work if you are self-employed and would therefore be the registered holder of that licence. anything which may jeopardise the licence would therefore jeopardise the licence-holder’s whole livelihood. with this in mind it is safe to assume that there is just cause for self-employed drivers to be even more fastidious than big firms. everything directly related to the service would be considered part of working time; for example paperwork, maintenance and general administration. in large firms people are employed to do this; therefore administration time has no impact on driving time. self-employed doing their own administration would find, under the directive’s conditions, little time left to do the driving itself. as an aside, i believe the commission also proposed a relaxation of restrictions over night work by introducing a two-hour qualifying period before night-time restrictions apply. i rarely agree with the commission but this would also be a welcome amendment. i fully support the rapporteur ms bauer.
madam president, in a time of economic challenge this parliament has made much of its credentials in encouraging entrepreneurship and competitiveness, but at the same time we are setting about restricting the right to work of self-employed lorry drivers. i have to say that i reject as utterly bogus the claims in this house this morning that this is about health and safety. we are all concerned about health and safety and do not want to see any more accidents on our roads. i represent northern ireland. it is right on the edge of europe. the road transport industry is hugely important to the economy and the inclusion of self-employed lorry drivers will only have a negative impact on competitiveness. it is an industry that is highly regulated through tachograph rules, and the financial implications of further red tape would be devastating. it would also be hugely damaging to those hoping to set up as independent drivers.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this proposal has been highly controversial and it is extremely complex. as the shadow rapporteur for my group, my guiding principles have been to ask: what information do consumers want when buying food for their families, and how best can we provide this information? our continent faces an obesity epidemic on a scale never before seen. we are eating too much fat, sugar and salt, and it is contributing to heart disease, diabetes, increased risk of cancer, strokes, liver disease and even depression. of course, simply ensuring consumers can easily identify the nutritional content of their food is not a magic cure, but it will enable consumers to be more aware of the food they buy, compare products and identify the healthiest option at a glance, thus taking control of what they eat. i am proposing we use a colour-coding system to do this, not to make a judgement on the product as a whole, but to inform consumers if the product they are buying is low, medium or high in salt, fat and sugar. this will only apply to complex processed foods such as ready-to-eat meals, breakfast cereals and all of those convenience foods produced on an industrial scale whose nutritional content – which is often poor – consumers are often unaware of or misinformed about. may i stress that this will not apply to german bread. it will not apply to butter or cheese or apple juice, or even alcohol. i have emailed every mep with more information so please, before you make up your minds, read it so that you know exactly what is being proposed, rather than listening to misleading industrial lobbying or flawed arguments from certain quarters of this house. i would also urge colleagues to support mandatory country-of-origin labelling. it is clear that consumers are becoming more conscious of the origin of the food on their plate and want honest food labelling. of course this will not always be feasible. nevertheless, for single products it is clear that their agricultural origin should be available to consumers and this is 100% feasible. it is already in place for beef, for fish, and for fresh fruit and vegetables. for the ingredients of processed products it is of course more complex, which is why it is only being proposed for meat, poultry and fish in processed foods. on a final note, we talk a lot in this house about the importance of consumer choice and prevention in public health. now is our chance to prove that we are serious. colleagues, actions speak louder than words. please support my proposals.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, one of the most contentious items in this debate has been country-of-origin labelling. i firmly believe that consumers have a right to know the origin of the food they purchase and, particularly in the case of meat, if it has been produced to high welfare standards and has not been transported over great distances prior to slaughter. but the sourcing of raw materials in processed food is irreversibly complex, as ingredients are chosen based on price, quality and availability and countries of origin in a single meat processing plant may alter day by day, and even hour by hour. the constant adaptation of labels would carry higher costs and will inevitably increase packaging waste. these additional costs would be passed on to the consumer. that is why i believe that the feasibility of mandatory labelling rules must first be subject to an impact assessment, and i am glad that commissioner dalli said that he supports that. but while this debate focuses on raw materials or ingredients of foodstuffs, it does not cover the origin of the final product. this is particularly important for specific products like whisky. it is still possible for low-quality whiskies from countries like india, china and japan to pass themselves off as the genuine article by carrying pictures, images or names on their labels which are reminiscent of the traditional whisky-producing countries in the eu in order to increase their competitive advantage and mislead the consumer. we must guard against this, and i therefore urge you to support amendment 254.
mr president, first of all i welcome the report and i want to congratulate the rapporteur. she has been at it for some considerable time and she has certainly shown herself to be a very able rapporteur. let me make one thing very clear. i am totally in favour of labelling of origin, but i think we have to be very clear about what we mean by labelling of origin. we must ensure first of all that people – the consumers – know where the produce came from. then the consumer also has to know very clearly how that food was prepared or how it got to where it is. i agree with the rapporteur on this, and i think we are in danger here of going too far too soon. this is a process, a first reading. let us be very honest about this as we will come back to this again and again. i want to see us proceed with a degree of caution, but let us get it right. i do not want us to over-regulate in europe to a position where even we in europe do not know where we are coming from. we are in great danger of over-regulating ourselves out of the market. we have to control this and get it right, and i am totally in favour of it. i think we should use the time between the first reading and the next reading to have an impact assessment to see what the cost and what the effect of this will be, because in the long term that it is what we require.
mr president, i do not think anyone in this house will argue with the fact that consumers want and need safe, traceable and wholesome food, and no one can argue that there is not a need for accurate and honest labelling of food. however, we must be careful not to create information overload in any labelling system. too much unintelligible information will lead to consumers ignoring the essential information and paying attention to information which has no real value. therefore simplicity and valuable information should be the key criteria in a labelling system. i, like my colleagues, support country-of-origin labelling. i do believe that it is important that we know where our food comes from. the farming and fishing industries and communities which are represented in this house produce food under very stringent regulation yet, for example, 60% of the fish we eat is imported into the eu and in most cases not reared under the same strict environmental and regulatory regimes. we need to ensure that our systems create level playing fields for our communities and our industries. in northern ireland the agri-food industry is hugely important and again i would appeal for us not to penalise the industry with unnecessary bureaucracy and red tape.
mr president, what could be simpler than laying down rules for giving information to consumers? but different interpretations and different practices in different countries and competing commercial interests have led to much complexity. personally i will be voting for traffic lights, country-of-origin labelling and more information about alcoholic drinks, but past experience suggests there is still plenty of room for confusion. in his opening remarks the commissioner referred to the legislation on food health claims. in a response to a parliamentary question he has just given me, he says that 44 000 applications for health claims have been made by companies. the european food safety authority is completely swamped and the commission has not yet given a single opinion in response to these applications. the commission itself is now in breach of european law, so this is a complete mess. perhaps the commissioner will use his closing remarks to tell us how we are going to get out of it.
mr president, the principle of providing more and better nutritional information to consumers has been at the forefront of this report and is a commendable aim. however, during the process of the report through this parliament, i have had enlightening discussions on the font size on a packet of chewing gum, whether chicken is in fact a meat, or whether a twix bar is classified as one portion or two. we have forgotten what is important and essential to the consumer. the traffic light system of labelling excessively simplifies nutritional profiles, causing even the most basic information to become vague and abstract. this directly affects the choices available to consumers and has a disproportionately negative impact on staple foods. just as certain members have been quick to make judgements, the traffic light system provides too judgemental an assessment of foodstuffs and the complex nutritional composition of food; its place in the diet cannot be reduced to a simple colour. consumers want to know where their food is from, and essential information on what is in it – especially allergenic information – to allow them to make the best choice of food product. i believe they are intelligent enough to do that. they do not want to be dictated to about what food they can and cannot eat.
author. − mr president, the committee on economic and monetary affairs is consistent and united in its view that eurostat has to be strengthened and we have for a long time been in pursuit of establishing higher-quality statistical data. we know the history as mr karas has already referred to it. in 2005 the council brought shame on itself and sowed the seed of the current sovereign debt problems by weakening the stability and growth pact and simultaneously denying audit powers to eurostat. with that history, it takes time to regain trust, and lack of trust contributed to why, in the recent troubles, member states had to put a lot of cash on the table. words and political commitments by the ecofin council were not enough. soon we will at last have audit power for eurostat, all the more important now because it is the key that can make other plans about economic surveillance effective. a tool to get a grip on an outturn is so much better than just a grip on promises. we want the quality of data to be improved, for it to be timely, and we want to be able to examine upstream input to national accounts, and we ask: is the new power given to eurostat sufficient? even now the ecofin council has added in some conditionality to the new auditing power, actually less restricting than many of us feared, but has it undermined the possibility for really early investigation and intervention? the european parliament’s report favours unconditional rights for eurostat to do so-called methodological visits. of course, resources must be targeted where needed, but investigation needs to happen at the time of suspicion, not after the event. finally, when will we know that like is truly compared with like? what progress is being made to ensure that accounting procedures are standardised and sufficiently transparent to capture off-balance-sheet activity and any other innovative practices?
mr president, it is surely not beyond the wit of intelligent people to understand that we want to vote for, against or abstain, as we do normally. can you not arrange it? if you cannot, then we cannot take this vote.
if there is anything to add at the end of the vote i will bring it to you.
mr president, mr swoboda’s point is an entirely valid one. my good friend mr malcolm harbour has done the sums and, if it is the case that more people have voted than are actually present – indeed 785, or maybe even 789 – then surely this vote cannot stand. (applause)what we must do is consider – and i urge you to take this to the bureau immediately after you have left the chair – that we must have another vote tomorrow, preferably either with a paper ballot or at least with the system working properly.
as i said, i will try and get back to you before the end of this voting period. there does appear to be a discrepancy. mr swoboda has raised it, sir robert atkins has recorded it as well. we will try and get some information to you as soon as possible. i really do not want to prolong this. there is an issue; it needs to be looked at, it is being looked at, and i will get back to you as soon as possible.
no, they did not disappear. we will give you a very clear explanation of what happened on the vote for pastor tőkés, but it was not divine intervention.
mr president, sorry to be a pain yet again but there is actually a fourth roll-call vote over the page.
i am told that a new version of the voting list was issued, so that presumably was ruled out of order. we have therefore completed the vote on the marinescu report.
thank you, mr gollnisch. you may recall that for several months i sat as a non-attached member and, if i may say so, my political views are so divergent from yours that it merely proves the point that the non-attached section is not a group, and never can be. - at the end of the vote:
rapporteur. − mr president, i do not want to delay the house, but before we conclude this item there are two technical points to be dealt with. as you know, this process started last november. we need to add a new citation to link last november’s vote with this vote, and i would ask the house to agree that we add the words ‘having regard to its decision of 25 november 2009 on the adaptation of parliament’s rules of procedure to the lisbon treaty’. this is just, as i said, a technical point. the second such point is that we currently say that these rules should come into force on 1 december 2009. clearly that is not possible, and therefore i ask that we apply the normal rule 212(3), which means that the rules would come into force on the first day of the next part-session.
mr martin, thank you for all your work on this and other things.
colleagues, for those who would like to listen to the explanation about the tőkés vote: members voting: 621 – which is votes in favour and abstentions; votes cast in favour: 334; abstentions: 287, but they are not counted as votes cast. the absolute majority is 168. mr tőkés obtained 334 votes, more than the absolute majority of 168. the electronic voting system is used as an alternative to a vote with ballot papers. on a ballot paper for an election, voters can only vote in favour of a candidate or a fixed number of candidates. there is never any possibility of voting against, as mrs roth-behrendt explained. voters not wishing to vote in favour leave the ballot paper blank. therefore i welcome pastor tőkés to the bureau.
as you recall, mr lambrinidis, at the beginning of this parliament there were in fact three ballots in order to elect all the vice-presidents on a qualified majority, so that was the procedure we followed on that occasion. on this occasion there was only one candidate, and, given that he received more than 168 votes, he got more than the qualified majority and is therefore elected on a single vote. this procedure is an unusual one, but we have followed the rules.
mr goebbels, the answer to your question is that there has been a misunderstanding by a number of members that on the screen the absolute majority was put up as if it were a score. it was not. it was an indication of the absolute majority. it should not be added to the total number of votes. i repeat. mr tőkés got 334 votes. it is more than the qualified majority. he therefore is elected. i should make it very clear that the 168 figure was not 168 votes. it was an indication of the number, the threshold needed, to win his position as vice-president. i am sorry for the misunderstanding. perhaps we could have made it clearer at the time.
i am convinced that if the vote was taken again the result would be the same. i do believe that people understood that they were voting as in a normal electronic vote – the buttons meant the same thing; the result was clear. what was not clear was the placing on the board of the figure 168, which has caused some confusion. if there was any misunderstanding the president himself can make clear what he was saying when he next appears before you.
mr president, if you will indulge me, i actually have two points of order. the first is on the vice-presidential vote. there is no way that this can be a safe vote. we were misled as to the instructions. in this row here we attempted to vote negatively, and the machines would not allow us to do so. we tried to raise points of order, which were not taken at the time, so i would call for a recall of this vote by a paper vote or a straightforward, yes/abstain/no vote with the results firmly displayed. from those like me who are critical of this institution: actually, thank you very much – this is an open goal for you, and we will make much criticism of this, thank you very much! my second criticism is on a refusal to allow me an explanation of vote on the tremopoulos report. this was a roll-call vote on transparency and i voted against this. now i am not being allowed an opportunity to explain why i voted against it, but my electorate will see that i voted against transparency. i want to give an explanation as to why i voted against this report. may i please beg an explanation of vote on this.
on the first point, the staff were here present, as was the president, who chaired the vote. if there are any issues that arose out of the handling of that, they will be dealt with. on the second point, on a simplified procedure there are no debates, there is no explanation of vote, but, ms sinclaire, you can put it in writing, so please avail yourself of that opportunity.
the figure of 168 was calculated by the computer, on the basis of the votes actually cast, as a majority. look, i never passed a maths exam in my life so i am going to stop here!
we have noted that point.
something tells me that we will never use this system again. we will use paper in future!
that is a decision for the president, but i shall certainly make that suggestion to him.
mr president, no country has been so disadvantaged by the bail-outs as ireland, and no people has been so hard done by as the irish. the irish finance minister, brian lenihan, made all the right decisions. every irish public servant from the taoiseach to the lowest civil servant, and even the recipients of unemployment benefit, have tightened their belts and taken huge cuts in income. now they find that, if they had made none of those painful decisions – if they had just carried on spending – they might have qualified, like the greeks, for a bail-out of their own and, worse than that, they discover that they are obliged to participate in rescuing greece. in fact not only that, but they discover that in per capita terms ireland is making a greater contribution than most of the other eurozone members. every orthodox economist would suggest that what we need to do at a time like this is to allow some of the eurozone economies to print their own currencies again, to devalue, to buy themselves time to price themselves back into the market. instead we are condemning the peoples of southern europe to years of poverty and deflation and loading the taxpayers of northern europe with an enormous debt, all in order to save a few faces. surely we have the most expensive faces since that of helen of troy, which launched a thousand ships!
mr president, it was not my intention to make an explanation of vote on this particular issue, but during his speech the rapporteur referred only to dr paisley and mr adams, saying that they brought the peace to northern ireland. well, mr adams and dr paisley may have brought a lot of things but peace they never brought. a lot of people may claim peace in northern ireland but it was really david trimble and john hume who bore the brunt of the heavy lifting to bring the peace to northern ireland, and i hope the rapporteur will get his facts right in the future. they did all the heavy lifting in the past. let me make it clear that i voted in favour of this today because i believe that in northern ireland today we still need support to maintain what has been achieved. it is by no means sure that the peace will last as there are those on both sides – and we have seen them coming forward recently – who are still trying to de-establish what has been achieved.
mr president, when we began our votes today we came across a procedure that we had never really encountered in this house before – one whereby only ‘yes’ votes were registered. i put it to you, mr president, that it was only a matter of time. this is of course precisely the approach that the eu has taken in successive referendums. the european constitution or lisbon treaty was continuously rejected in the polls, by 54% of french voters, by 62% of dutch voters, by 53% of irish voters, and the reaction on each occasion was to go ahead regardless, to disregard what objections people had made, to hear only ‘yes’ where people had voiced their opposition. now we have enshrined or regularised that approach in the procedures of this house. we have made it impossible for people to register their dissent from the project. i am tempted to adapt that old slogan: what part of ‘no’ do you not understand?
mr president, in looking at this report today about the procedure and the adaptation of procedure to the treaty of lisbon, it is interesting that we speak to many members of the parliament themselves and they do not really know what is actually in the treaty of lisbon and how it impacts on our voters in everyday life. take, for example, the whole bail-out of greece. if you look at what has been debated in council, it is article 122 of the lisbon treaty, which was supposed to be an article of solidarity: ‘in the spirit of solidarity if a member state falls into difficulties in the supply of certain products such as in the area of energy or where a member state is in difficulty or threatened with severe difficulties due to natural disasters’. that is now being used as an excuse for member states, whether they are members of the eurozone or not, to bail out a country that has got itself into a mess of its own making and not because of exceptional circumstances. we should be quite clear with the electorate what the lisbon treaty means for the voters. does it mean taking taxpayers’ money to bail out countries that cannot manage their own affairs?
mr president, the cancer from greece is metastasising across the mediterranean. we read this week that the european commission is preparing to bail out spain, and the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, frankly admits that in this event the eur 750 billion already set aside in the emergency bail-out fund would be wholly inadequate. as the tumour spreads, rather than contemplating amputation, our leaders have decided on a lengthy course of chemotherapy which will be expensive and painful and of uncertain outcome. what i mean by that is that they will try to create the machinery of what mr van rompuy calls economic governance and what his predecessor called fiscal federalism: tax harmonisation, a levy on financial transactions, a european debt agency or a european monetary fund. all these machines to try and transfer money so as to keep their project around when of course much the easier thing would be to excuse the taxpayers the burden of this bail-out and to give the stricken economies the massive stimulus of allowing themselves to devalue and price themselves into the market. what a high price we expect from our people in order to humour the conceits of their elites!
in writing. − the tremopoulos report takes as its starting point the idea that transparency is a prerequisite to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and i fully support calls for greater transparency in regional policy. the report also calls for member states to fully involve regional and local authorities in implementing policies and i am sure that when scotland is independent, the scottish government will fully involve all scotland's regions in these matters.
in writing. − i voted against this measure not because i am against transparency, far from it; as one of only a few uk meps to have audited accounts, i believe in stronger transparency. but this vote is typical of the eu: pretending to be transparent and putting in place more bureaucracy at taxpayers' expense. my constituents deserve better.
in writing. − i support efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight. however, i want to make it clear that i oppose the ongoing liberalisation of railways in the european union, which is responsible for the fragmentation, lack of investment and ineffectiveness of rail freight today. this compromise with the council is an effort to improve the situation, therefore i vote for it. but it builds on the liberalisation that i strongly oppose. however, this vote does not concern deregulation, which is already in the treaty.
in writing. − i voted against amendment 110, which envisages this house having cooperation with member state parliaments but not with sub-member state parliaments. this ignores the constitutional realities of some member states; for example, although flanders has taken a historic step this week towards independence, the belgian federal parliament remains for now the 'national' parliament in eu terms. nevertheless, in belgian constitutional terms, the flemish parliament has full competence for certain eu matters. the amendment also ignores the political realities of other member states: it is ridiculous that this house cannot fully cooperate with the scottish parliament on matters such as fisheries, where scotland holds the biggest uk stake.
in writing. − the key aspects of mr langen's report are acceptable. however, during the discussion in committee there was much made of the dangers of the industry. clearly, the size of derivative activity raises questions about how to regulate the industry, so transparency and a harmonised supervisory approach are regarded as very important factors. at the same time, it is unnecessary to raise the costs of trading by insisting on concentrating the clearing of such trades through single bourses. fortunately, mr langen is well aware of the limits of such an approach which could place costs at up to ten times higher in a bourse than elsewhere. we also need to ensure that the so-called tailor-made derivative instruments allowing companies to hedge against future rises in commodity markets are maintained. we should also ensure international compatibility – especially with the usa, the largest market.
in writing. − as technology becomes ever more advanced it is important that the eu and other policy makers keep abreast of developments. this report covers a number of important topics such as privacy and health issues and i fully support the rapporteur's call for the eu to be proactive in this sphere.
in writing. − this report recognises the importance of the internet in promoting cultural diversity and encouraging democratic citizenship. for democratic values to be promoted, however, it is vital that governments refrain from imposing censorship and i therefore welcome the provisions of paragraph 13.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the sosa wagner report as the eu should show strong leadership on all aspects of internet governance in the international arena. this report maintains the eu’s emphasis on the need for the security and stability of the global internet, the respect for human rights, freedom of expression, privacy, protection of personal data and the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity.
in writing. − the winkler report deals with a number of important issues, including ecological innovation and green enterprise. in view of the challenges facing our planet, it is clear that innovation in these fields is of vital importance. my own country, scotland, is at the forefront of many aspects of ecological innovation, particularly in the area of renewable energy. the scottish government has instituted a £10 million saltire prize aimed at boosting innovation in tide and wave energy and this fits nicely into wider eu efforts to have a suitable policy in a changing world.
in writing. − ukip do not support cancellation of debt on the basis that it is economically unsound on the following points: 1. a creditor nation is usually a debtor nation. for example, the uk is a significant donor of overseas aid. yet the uk, and therefore its tax payers, are usually unwilling donors to aid recipients whilst debt mountains pile up for uk plc. 2. debt cancellation impairs third world debtor countries from raising further international finance. therefore it is not in the debtor nation’s interest. 3. debt cancellation introduces moral hazard. what of third world countries which meet debt obligations, of which there are many? 4. cancellation implicitly condones fraud, corruption and the misappropriation of loans so endemic in african debtor countries. 5. given the massive debt now of most international economies, who arbitrates where cancellation is appropriate? further moral hazard.
in writing. − the cashman report makes important calls for the eu and its member states to implement a number of policies in the field of international development and i wholeheartedly endorse these calls. it should also be added that action can be taken other than at the eu or member state level. scotland, for example has a distinctive contribution to make in its work with developing countries and the scottish government has also published an international development policy aimed at contributing towards millenium development goals.
on behalf of the ecr group. – may i return to eu-us relations just for a moment to say how pleased that i and my group – my group being a major group in this context – are to hear about the swift agreement progress which we have been very much involved with. can i ask president barroso to perhaps tell us what useful lessons have been learned by the commission in relation to the swift agreement which may be successfully and usefully employed when we deal with the very important pnr agreements that await our attention, now with the united states in the first place, but also with canada and australia?
on behalf of the ecr group. – i agree entirely with that. i think the european parliament's behaviour on this, particularly latterly, has been a good democratic example for everybody. my supplementary deals with the question of sharing the burden on counter-terrorism between the united states and the european union. does the president believe that the agreements which we have been discussing place too much of a burden on the united states as opposed to allowing us to adopt the burden or be subject to the burden of sharing responsibilities and resources in respect of counter-terrorism?
president of the commission. − frankly speaking, i do not believe that there is now openness among all member states to consider eurobonds for this kind of expenditure. just recently we adopted a very important, ambitious programme in terms of a mechanism or a facility for helping countries with problems of debt. it is in fact some kind of obligation which member states take to the financial markets, so i believe it will be extremely difficult to now get from the member states the agreement with the eurobonds principle for this kind of projects. nevertheless, i think there are some possibilities of using other mechanisms. in my programme i spoke for instance about having some public/private partnerships; i spoke about involving the european investment bank in a better way; we are looking very openly at all the possibilities of financing for those very important projects. but if you want my honest answer, it is that it would be difficult, if not impossible, now to get eurobonds for that specifiic purpose.
president barroso, you have been a supporter of northern ireland and the important progress that has been achieved in creating a stable and peaceful future for our people. in your task force report, you indicated your support and that of the commission for the local devolved administration and the work that it is doing in securing a peaceful and prosperous future for the people of northern ireland. in this time of economic turbulence, the agri-food industry in northern ireland is one of the most important sectors of the economy. this very important work could suffer from the proposed penalties for alleged breaches of the single farm payment scheme identified by commission auditors. mr barroso, would you agree that the proposed penalties on the department of agriculture and rural development in northern ireland for breaches of the sfp scheme between 2004 and 2006 are disproportionate in relation to the actual risk to the scheme? will you and dg agri agree to look again at the suggestion of a five per cent flat-rate disallowance, given that the department in northern ireland is taking remedial steps to ensure that systems are accurate and that money has already been recovered in relation to the original claims?
president of the commission. − thank you for the comments regarding the support that the commission has been giving to northern ireland. indeed we are very pleased about, and supportive of, the developments in northern ireland. the commission has invested heavily in this process. i remember also my visit to northern ireland and will continue to do so. i am aware of the issue you have raised of the single farm payment scheme. commissioner cioloş has outlined our position on this, but let me state very clearly that the clearance of accounts procedure is an administrative one. the member state concerned is given a full opportunity to express its view, but the independence of the process is vital. the commission does not enjoy any discretion in the level of corrections, which follows established principles to ensure equal treatment to all member states. i am sure that you all agree in this parliament about the need to respect fully our regulations in terms of accountability. it is critically important. just yesterday i had a very interesting meeting lasting several hours with the commission and the court of auditors and i want to tell you that, while supporting northern ireland very much, we have to respect strictly all the rules in terms of accountability.
i will just take up your time for one supplementary question in relation to that. there is some concern in northern ireland that the actual disallowance rate has been levied on a very small level of sporadic inspections. i would be grateful if the president would ensure that the commission undertake proper evaluation of the procedures that are now in place to ensure that the scheme is properly administered.
i think we all agree on the need for sound economic governance. but let us be honest about what is happening. what we have seen is blatant flouting of the stability and growth pact rules and engagement in what we would call, probably rather euphemistically, off-balance-sheet activities and financial engineering. now i am sure we can all agree that the eu member states must adhere to the principles of sound monetary policy, fiscal responsibility and honest accounting, but do you see this as an opportunity for the eu to gain power over member state budgets, or will you tackle the real problem of countries that have cooked the books and amassed massive budget deficits, rather than focusing on increasing power over member state budgets?
i wonder, can you please tell me who is really profiting from the greek bail-out package? is it the people of greece, or greece’s richest private banker, spiro latsis, who holds a 40% stake in the third-biggest bank in greece, eurobank efg group? could your friendship, sir, with mr latsis possibly be a conflict of interest?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, not so long ago, voices were raised to say that rating agencies should not have downgraded greek and other bonds. ‘look at what it has done to the euro,’ they said. now i was going to say whether any more needed to be said to prove the huge conflict of interest that there would be if countries effectively rated their own debt. then this morning, in the debate on statistics, commissioner rehn said yesterday’s downgrade by moody’s was not ‘conveniently timed’ and that that would influence commission thinking on credit rating agency regulation. i am sorry, i do understand frustration, but my thoughts were: have you gone mad? i do not want ratings that are ‘convenient’, whether that be ‘convenient’ for investment banks or ‘convenient’ for central banks. indeed, ratings have been a bit too ‘convenient’ for regulators to lean on too, driving out proper due diligence. now a public agency for non-sovereign assets has some attractions, but how do we get over the implied guarantee? how do we get over political interference if bank capital is at risk with the macroeconomic consequences of that? we have some way to go in the search for capacity, independence and integrity, but of one thing i am sure, and that is that corporate governance principles play a part, be it in the public or private sector and that should apply to esma and the other esas too.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it was clear very early in the financial crisis that there had been huge failings on the part of credit rating agencies. hence it was one of the first things addressed by the eu last year. updating the directive to cast responsibility for the eu activities of the predominantly us-based agencies is to be welcomed as a move to monitor their activity more closely here in europe. credit rating agencies are extremely powerful organisations and have the ability to move the markets with a change of rating. their independence needs, therefore, to be ascertained and maintained at all times. however, any rating decisions that trigger a flow of billions of euros should not come as a surprise to the market. for example credit rating agencies should publish their ongoing stress tests and scenario analyses so as to improve market transparency and minimise shocks. however we must remember what it is credit rating agencies are set up to do: to assess the risk of default of an entity, be it a product or a corporation, especially a publicly listed company including financial institutions or even sovereign states. in the same way that we should not blame credit rating agencies for responding to legitimate information on the state of our banks, we should not use them as an excuse for the market’s reaction to the dire state of our public finances. although monitoring their activity more closely is to be supported, a more critical proposal needs to be framed around a different question, namely: why have the markets, investors, corporations and sovereign states relied so heavily on credit rating agencies rather than conducting adequate due diligence and collecting information for themselves? in particular, why is the credit rating market dominated by three names when there are many more available to the marketplace? when we have answered these broader questions then the way credit rating agencies are held to account will become more meaningful. with their great power and influence in the markets there should also be significant responsibility.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, credit rating agencies sold their souls to the devil some years ago when they started to rely on those companies whose bonds needed grading for payment. he who pays the piper calls the tune. it inevitably led to misgrading. most credit rating agencies employ children who can barely read a balance sheet. they only change their gradings when a disaster is apparent to all. paradoxically, it is usually the hedge funds who find out the truth behind the numbers. they exposed enron for example. but the truth about numbers can be unpopular, especially here, which is why we hate them. however, even the coke-sniffing youngsters at the credit agencies know that ireland, greece, spain, italy, the united kingdom and portugal are broke. kaput is kaput in any language! so what does this house propose? our own credit rating agency paid for by us, guaranteed to dance to our tune. it can stick aaa rating to junk bonds issued by the eurozone’s failed economies. the question is, who would these fool? i suggest, with the exception of some english county councils and the bbc economics correspondents, virtually nobody. when the people of europe realise that they have been the guinea pigs in a gigantic failed currency experiment, they will burn this place down and guillotine the lot of us, and who could blame them?
mr president, i welcome the debate on rating agencies. we do need to look at the reliance on ratings and how to encourage more agencies so that there is more competition, as well as the issue of conflict of interest with respect to borrower-paid ratings. however, i would say that it has always been well known to every investor that this potential for conflict existed and that credit ratings are themselves not a recommendation to buy or sell. we should also remember that, to achieve our 2020 goals, the eu needs investment and that needs market confidence, and rating agencies are a vital part of market confidence. when ratings work, they increase capital markets’ access for borrowers, lower interest rates and thus, for sovereign issuers, save taxpayers’ money. they also serve to give investors some guidance but, as i said, not buy- and sell-decisions. please remember that in europe no aaa-rated sovereign or corporate issuer has ever defaulted. even in this crisis, the level of aaa defaults in structured credits in europe is less than 0.3%, which means that 99.9% of aaas have not defaulted. we do need this investor confidence. we do need to look at our rating agencies, but please remember that they have not got everything wrong.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadows for their cooperation. i believe that the compromises reached are accepted by the s&d group as they are fair and we believe will lead to greater investor protection, in particular for small retail investors. i think, as the commissioner said, it is in the spirit of the original directive. if we look at the summary and the key information document – dr klinz has spoken about that and the need to have clarity – i think we have reached a wording which will ensure clarity, whilst being clear that civil liability remains with the base prospectus. in addition, we have clarified the period when publication of a prospectus or supplementary information to it is required; we have also clarified the requirement for and liabilities of the prospectus when securities are sold via intermediaries and not directly by the issuer. on threshold: i would say it was more a tweaking exercise than dramatic change, but the compromises reached were fair and balanced and the s&d group supports these. i think it is a welcome step to be clear about the definition of a qualified investor as is the effect of supervision of third-country trading. in line with better regulation, the decision that no prospectus will be required for employee share schemes would appear to be sensible. after all, if employees are not willing to invest in their own firm, maybe the management should take heed. the work on delegated acts – dr klinz has mentioned this. the three months compromise is vitally important and is a move in parliament’s direction. i will certainly be using the prospectus directive decision as a benchmark for the work i will be doing as the rapporteur on construction products, while the benchmark that is being used by the council is the pets directive rather than the prospectus directive. on the electronic publication of the prospectus: i think that is welcome too. the review clause of five years is also welcome. so all in all, mr president and rapporteur, the s&d group supports the compromise reached and we look forward to supporting the first reading deal in tomorrow’s vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i know that this is not one of our most headline-grabbing reports, but it deserves to be, because this prospectus directive has actually been crucial to regulating european firms’ access to capital. that, in itself, is vital for europe’s potential for economic growth in the future. it has been a delight to work with the shadow rapporteurs but most delightful under mr klinz’s guidance. he has added real value to the original commission proposal and the council’s position. i believe the resulting text is not only technically workable, but is a good balance between investor protection and easing the access to capital markets for enterprises in europe. we have worked hard to get legal certainty and there is a clear process for updating and supplementing prospectuses. we have tried to help investors with the contents of the summary and the concept of key information. i am particularly pleased that there will be a lighter disclosure regime for rights issues. i think that this will help not only larger companies, but smaller ones too. at a time when markets are volatile, it can be the cost of a prospectus that would put someone off even trying to raise additional capital. we do need to especially bear that in mind at this moment. it is a very welcome precedent. i look forward to further analysis of the sector when we look at the mifid directive later on this year. as i said, this is an example of a concrete measure we are taking to improve europe’s environment for entrepreneurs and for investing in our future.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the revision of the multiannual financial framework comes at a time of severe economic and financial crisis in europe. we are not therefore in a position to cover the requirements of the lisbon treaty and the europe 2020 strategy. the president of the european commission has dramatically announced that democracy could disappear in greece, spain and portugal unless urgent action is taken to tackle the debt crisis. does anybody think that these countries are in a position to finance an increase in the eu budget? does anybody think that the rest of the member states are in a position to bail out these countries and, additionally, to finance an increase in the eu budget? the answer to both questions is ‘no’. some difficult choices will have to be made at this point to allow a reduction in the eu budget. it is now time to get rid of programmes that have not proved efficient, of which we have many in the present eu budget.
the next item is question time (b7-0307/2010). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question 18 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0277/10) subject: effects of fiscal adjustments on the credibility of the common european currency in order to gain acceptance for the euro on the part of european governments and the european public, the commission launched a large-scale information campaign in all countries of the euro area with favourable results. today, principally as a result of economic problems in these countries, accompanied by uncontrolled market speculation, the credibility of the euro is being seriously undermined, creating widespread public concern and uncertainty in europe according to national surveys. can the commission provide the following information: have special public opinion soundings been taken in europe by population category? what measures are being envisaged to improve the image of the common currency and its credibility in the eyes of the public? will the euro area continue freely to admit new member countries?
question 19 by mairead mcguinness (h-0257/10) subject: eu structural funds - funding exclusion the eu, as signatory to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities reflects the core elements – of anti-discrimination, equal opportunities and active inclusion measures – in its own disability strategy. in march 2010, the commission was represented at a conference in brussels hosted by the european coalition for community living which addressed the issue of 'funding exclusion while promoting inclusion? the use of european union funding to maintain the institutionalisation of people with disabilities'. the commission is aware of the concern among ngos that european structural funds are being used to renovate existing, or build new, long-stay residential institutions for people with disabilities, in contravention of the rights of these citizens. given the strong convergence of objectives between the overall eu disability strategy and the un convention, what action will the commission take to address this problem and ensure that eu funds are not used in this inappropriate way, but are rather directed towards the provision of community based living for persons with disabilities?
question 21 by chris davies (h-0246/10) subject: securing eu environmental goals does the commission accept that excessive internal debate within the eu, and a failure to coordinate its full range of diplomatic sources across the world, contributed to the failure to secure eu objectives both at the unfccc copenhagen climate change conference and at the meeting of the parties to cites at doha? will the commission outline the steps it is taking to improve its advance planning and coordination with the object of raising its game and securing a more positive outcome at future environmental conferences?
the commissioner and i will share objectives without question, and i support the commission in its battle with the council, but, as we look at conferences like cites, i see the japanese apparently going round from one embassy to another with a bag of gold. you would describe it as outreach work. so let me put a specific question to you, as you touched upon the strengthening of the european union’s diplomatic abilities. what meetings have you had or will you have with catherine ashton to discuss how the external action service can be brought into the service of the commission as a whole to ensure that our diplomatic abilities are played to the full?
question 22 by dan jørgensen (h-0255/10) subject: dealing with edc mixtures studies from denmark and germany have shown that children, in particular, are exposed to a whole cocktail of different chemicals, and especially hormone disrupting chemicals, such as the phthalate plasticisers. these scientific findings mean that the reach authorisation process for single hormone disrupting chemicals – which is based on the grounds that their concentrations would stay below their effect level - is no longer safe or effective, because together these chemicals form a dangerous mixture. how does the commission intend to close this gap in the reach provisions and ensure that hormone disrupting chemicals are not authorised on the flawed assumption that we are only exposed to one chemical at a time? question 23 by fiona hall (h-0265/10) subject: eu action on endocrine disrupting chemicals (edcs) the eu strategy for action on hormone-disrupting chemicals was adopted over 10 years ago, largely as a result of an initiative report by the european parliament in 1997. science has since then shown increasingly strong links between some endocrine disruptors and cancer, lower fertility and possible impacts on behaviour and development. yet despite various political statements in support of the eu action plan on edcs, and an agreed priority list of endocrine-disrupting chemicals (edcs), no practical action has yet been taken at eu level to remove hormone-disrupting chemicals from our environment. will the commission now take action to make use of the results from the publicly-funded research and ensure that these chemicals with a high risk to human health can be dealt with as a priority under reach? what concrete measures will the commission propose in its forthcoming report on implementation of the eu edc strategy?
member of the commission. − as i have said, the real problem in this area is the lack of solid science and facts. you rightly mention the precautionary principle. we are bound by the treaty to follow the precautionary measures in the area of the environment also, but i would still like to get as much data as possible and to base the proposals on as much solid science as possible. since 1999, the year when this approach started, we have already had 84 studies within the community, with approximately two million involved. however, when i discussed that with my colleagues yesterday in order to get a brief outline of the details, their main message was actually exactly this: that we still lack knowledge to have very concrete measures. but certainly you can be reassured that this will be actively under my consideration in the future.
i thank you, commissioner, for your reply but i have an immense feeling of frustration because this is 13 years that this has been under consideration – 84 studies over 13 years. there are certain parts of the population, particularly unborn children, who are extremely vulnerable to these chemicals, and the changes have been shown to be irreversible, so people’s lives have been blighted from before birth as a result of this. given what you have said about the precautionary principle, what is stopping the commission from at least putting forward names for the list under reach for going forward with banning these substances?
question 24 by seán kelly (h-0256/10) subject: floods directive implementation can the commission give an update as to the implementation of the floods directive (2007/60/ec oj l 288, 6.11.2007, p.27), with special reference to ireland?
question 25 by radvile morkunaite-mikuleniene (h-0262/10) subject: revision of the eia directive (85/337/eec) from time to time we hear of problems arising during the planning and implementation of large-scale infrastructure projects, especially in the energy sector. most of the problems arise because of the lack of transparency and impartiality in the environmental impact assessments of such projects. current legislation (directive 85/337/eec oj l 175, 5.7.1985, p. 40.), as can be seen from the recent commission report, does not provide for the environmental assessment to be genuinely independent. two main solutions to this issue are put forward: first, closer commission involvement in the environmental assessment procedure or, second, ensuring that the financing of the environmental assessment is independent of the developer of the project being assessed. when is the commission planning to present the reviewed text of the eia directive? which option is the commission likely to choose in order to guarantee the independence of the environmental assessment?
that is the order in which they were tabled.
what about commissioner dalli? do we lose him entirely? there does not seem to be very good management of question time if you entirely blot out one commissioner.
in fact two commissioners.
mr president, i would like you to report back to the bureau, and i speak as chairman of the committee on the internal market, because two of the lead commissioners for my committee have not had the chance this evening to respond to questions both from members of my committee and others. if you knew at the beginning of this sitting, as you clearly did, and the sessions secretariat did, that time was going to be limited, first of all, it was absolutely unnecessary to take the two questions at the beginning that were not allocated to any commissioner. members of this house table questions specifically to the commissioners because they are here, and so those two could have been dispensed with straightaway. if this arises again i suggest we have to have a proper change to the rules of procedure on this subject. secondly, it was quite clear what time was available, in which case you should have shared the questions between the three commissioners who have taken the trouble and have the courtesy to come here. it is outrageous that this parliament ignores the fact that two commissioners come here and will not now get any time. so, as chairman of a committee, i insist that you as president of this sitting report back fully to the bureau and express our strong displeasure at the appalling organisation of this sitting.
in every chamber in the world, question time runs out of time, and that has happened tonight. it happens every single time.
we did in fact start late because some commissioners and some members were not present. that is part of the reason for this occurring.
as i said, in all chambers, in all countries, question time runs out of time – and we have run out of time. i am going to take one final question.
question 27 by kathleen van brempt (h-0301/10) subject: birds and habitats directives the birds directive (79/409/eec oj l 103, 25.4.1979, p. 1.) and the habitats directive (92/43/eec oj l 206, 22.7.1992, p. 7.) permanently come under pressure. it is fashionable to maintain that they stand in the way of economic development. however, the example of the port of antwerp demonstrates the contrary. almost the whole of the port area is designated as a special protection area under the birds directive, but nature conservation and development go hand-in-hand here with economic development, as the commissioner himself recently ascertained. given the pressure which exists to relax these directives, it seems to me appropriate in this year of biodiversity to ask the commissioner what is his position on the birds and habitats directives:does the commissioner agree with president barroso, who stated in a letter to prime minister balkenende that revision of the aforementioned directives was not needed, but on the contrary stability in the relevant legislative framework, and that these directives allowed sufficient room for economic development?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.35 and resumed at 21.00.)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, tonight’s debate looks at ways to improve a woman’s lot; sometimes by positive discrimination such as quotas, sometimes by direct legislation on gender equality. i support references strengthening cooperation between member states in addressing wage discrimination for equal jobs and action protecting women and men against all forms of violence, including human trafficking and female genital mutilation, but we also need to see strong steps towards empowerment of women through increasing confidence in their abilities, through education and through moves to create an environment which encourages choice. someone who once lived under the cloud of discrimination said: i have a dream. well, i too have a dream. i look to the day that we will work, not only for greater equality in the workplace, but to empower women to make a free choice and to feel strong enough to achieve their goals. that would be the true road map for women. however, we must take small steps. we all agree on the principle of equality and i would say it is our basic right, but why include issues which muddy the water? the dossiers are complex and the inclusion of issues which are member state competences, such as public expenditure in the areas of health, does not help matters. there are red lines in the road. i am sorry to say that, if we are to achieve equality, we must ensure the road is clear of distractions for it is only on a clear road that we can march forward united.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, schengen was a trade-off for the freedom of movement of people and goods and trusting those members involved to carry out appropriate measures to ensure safety and security on their own turf. although the uk is not part of the formal schengen acquis, we use aspects of the schengen information system in fighting crime. yet, at the same time, the system and the schengen acquis in general also provide the more astute criminal with a broader platform for international crime and corruption. after the accession of bulgaria and romania to the sis, the primary question must be whether these member states are at a point where they can guarantee a level of scrutiny domestically to warrant free movement across the continent. there has been significant opposition to moving towards a second evolution of the schengen information system, in particular the equilibrium between cost and efficiency. the uk operates independent stringent checks and does not participate in passport-free travel. will we have to provide financial support for developing information gathering systems in those countries aspiring to schengen, in order to mitigate the potential increase in crime related to open-border policy? schengen brought with it an increase in the possibility of trafficking in illegal goods and people across borders. the security of travel without border controls rests heavily upon trust in the ability of individual member states to perform checks to appropriate standards. the expansion of the schengen information system increases the window for corruption and creates a much larger collection of information for criminals wishing to hack into the network. similarly, deeper integration alongside a broadening of member state involvement may require an expansion of measures used in the schengen information system, especially as we approach the advent of sis ii. for example, at what point will the storage of biometric data be positive? critics also worry that the system may be used to monitor citizens with particular political views, with information garnered liable to be mishandled for political ends. with an increasing number of states joining the acquis, the risk is heightened. about 500 000 computers are currently able to access the schengen information system. it cannot be known how many of these systems are free of malicious software. in general, one in two computers have been victims to malicious infection. spyware allows a third party to access the same data as the user. the broader the system, the more data there is to access, and the greater the number of criminals with aspirations to abuse the system. member states must demonstrate exceptionally advanced security and, even with the greatest efforts and intentions, one cannot rule out the possibility of a breach which in turn would compromise all involved.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are indeed fortunate, i suppose, to be talking about this at the time of the world cup because what the world cup illustrates more than almost any other sporting event is just how important sport is to people; just how many millions and millions of people watch football and how much pleasure and passion is invested in it. because of this, it is so important that we actually make sure that the game of football and other sports are regulated properly and that we do now take the action which has been discussed for so long about players’ agents. we are unfortunately, as has been mentioned, seeing some very serious things going on: abuse, money laundering, corruption, exploitation of underage players; things which are serious crimes against which we really must take the action which we have been planning for so long. what better time to be doing that than now, when the whole world it seems is consumed by football?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i fully support efforts to make the activities of sports agents, mainly in football, more transparent and i believe that the eu should be supporting the various sporting governing bodies to ensure that they can do just that. we need to shine a light into the murky world where exploitation could be rife and matters such as dual representation, whereby the agent can be representing a player at the same club that is trying to sign the player, need to be looked at. however, any legislation that comes forward to regulate this sector must be from the national sporting bodies or authorities such as fifa and uefa. it is really not the place of the eu to be regulating in the sporting world, especially with the global nature of this particular problem. where we can add value to sports we should, but we should only intervene upon the request of the sporting governing bodies where we can clearly deliver value or give clarity.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there is an old story: a man is lost trying to find a railway station. he goes up to someone in the street and says, ‘where is the station?’ to which the person replies, ‘the route is difficult, the journey is long, so i would not start from here if i were you’. in all these lengthy discussions about how to avoid a future euro crisis we are diverting vital energy from the task at hand about how to get out of a current crisis. all this talk about european economic governance, new rules and regulations and further sanctions, misses the rather simple, and fundamental point: what about now? we have to start from where we are, now. we want the euro to continue to be a success, especially for those who have chosen to be members, but this requires action today and not grand schemes for the future. it is obviously true, as is now recognised on all sides of this house, that there were serious weaknesses in the design of the currency, but the flaws in its design have been matched by even more serious weaknesses in implementation, which may not be solved by just drawing up new rules. after all, there was insufficient will to enforce the rules that had been put in place in the first place. there was a failure by some member states to fulfil the commitments that they had undertaken. yet nothing can be more dangerous for the european union than to believe that the solutions to our problems involve more regulation, further centralised control and greater burdens. we need to get back to the real concerns of our citizens, above all how to rebuild europe’s fragile economy. our economic position has suffered three grievous blows in recent years. firstly, even before the current crisis, we were actually growing more slowly than our major trading partners. we were becoming steadily less competitive in global markets, jobs were being exported and markets undercut. we may have felt prosperous but it was a tragic illusion based largely on money borrowed both by the public sector and private households. secondly, when the crisis came it rocked the western world and caused instability, forcing governments to borrow even more, and thirdly this excessive borrowing in a number of key members of the euro area brought it to the edge of disaster. our member states and our citizens are drenched in debt from which it will take years to recover and most of the difficult steps needed can only be taken by member states themselves. the european union can help; that is why we must not let the europe 2020 strategy be overshadowed by more grand debates about economic governance. we welcome, mr barroso, your work on that strategy. the centrepiece initiative of the commission is still work in progress but it needs to have full support not to see the mistakes of the lisbon strategy being repeated. avoiding the temptation to become distracted by theoretic debates about future economic governance, we must instead focus on the enormous programme of european reform which is needed to release the creative energy and talents of our people to develop their plans and businesses, which alone can deliver the long-term economic prosperity we seek in an increasingly competitive world. (applause)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, since i was last here i have suffered some small ups and some rather dramatic downs, perhaps rather like the euro! the difference of course is that i am going to get better and looking at the faces in this parliament today and hearing the tone of voice i suspect that the euro’s problems now may well be terminal! the folly of your policies has already blighted the lives of tens of millions of people in europe and it now threatens to blight hundreds of millions of people. this whole project was based, of course, on a lie, as mr van rompuy has admitted. it is perfectly clear that, economically, it does not work – but, interestingly, politically it cannot work either. nobody ever gave consent for this project. there is clearly no such thing as a ‘european identity’, and why should the germans work hard to pay for the greeks? it simply is not going to work. mr barroso, the whole thing is headed in the wrong direction. greece, spain, portugal – they do not fit inside this economic and monetary union, and what they actually need is help: help to break free from this economic prison of nations before we create something truly catastrophic. yet, what is on the table tomorrow is the proposal for yet more centralised power! the very people that have put europe in the mess that it is in want more power for themselves. they want to compound these errors. if you go on down this route you threaten not just the economies of southern europe, but you threaten democracy and peace itself. we are at a crossroads. we need to turn back. people need national control over their currencies and over their economies. this is not working! (applause)
mr president, this week the european council will need to provide answers to the political, economic, environmental and social challenges we are facing at the moment, both now and over the next 10 years. we worry, however, that it will not. on immediate challenges, the council seems likely to support the idea of accelerated fiscal consolidation and excessive tightening of the stability and growth pact, as called for by mrs merkel and mr sarkozy. that will not reassure markets at a time when the us administration is considering a new recovery plan to secure economic growth and job creation. europe does need to consolidate its finances, but not in a brutal and undemocratic way, a way which would undermine welfare systems, kill fragile growth and put several million more needlessly out of work. that is not what the people of europe want, and we ask the european council not to use this crisis to deconstruct systems of social protection or undermine our future competitiveness by cutting public spending in vital areas like research and education. there is a more socially just and economically intelligent way to bring finances under control which requires much closer cooperation between our nations within a framework of reformed economic governance and greater solidarity. but that is the only way if we do not want to make ordinary people, and especially the more vulnerable in society, pay for a crisis which they did not cause. on longer-term challenges, the european council should revisit the planned europe 2020 strategy. right now it is incomplete, unambitious and lacks serious financial backing. there is basically no social dimension, nor an environmental one, except that some climate change elements are already agreed. some priorities, such as research, will not be achieved because of accelerated fiscal consolidation. we are facing historic levels of unemployment, yet the strategy does not make explicit high-quality full employment as a core target; it must. we hope that these calls will be heeded, mr president, and that this week’s european council will not become just another missed opportunity.
madam president, in this chamber we are always talking about being ambitious, about many things we would like europe to achieve. i would like to think bigger and i would like our leaders to think bigger when they attend the upcoming european council and g20 meetings. the committee on economic and monetary affairs talks about failure on a global stage and the need to implement european solutions, forgetting that the eu’s largest partner, the us, has gone through worse turmoil than we have. they are looking at ever more radical and innovative solutions, some of which in fact we are more or less in line with. with a few adjustments we could come together with the us and put together resolution mechanisms for a huge proportion of the world’s largest banks. the us fed and the uk fsa are currently discussing cross-border crisis amendment protocols, and resolution mechanisms for the transatlantic financial service providers. these need to be incorporated into this parliament’s legislative reports. the proposals on transparency for derivative instruments are compatible on both sides of the atlantic, as are capital requirements. therefore, even bilateral agreements would be beneficial if we fail to persuade all g20 participants to follow. it seems that certain g20 members are already actively pursuing market participants in the hope of exploiting regulatory arbitrage. we need to encourage other financial market operators to move with us rather than compete on lower regulatory regimes for financial markets. the g20 can and should work, but i encourage our representatives at these meetings to be bold.
madam president, the agenda talks of a new strategy for jobs and growth – by which they mean loss of jobs and negative growth! gdp fell by 4% in 2009, and 10% of the workforce – 23 million people – are unemployed. what will be the european council’s remedy? more immigration! look at the european pact on asylum and immigration, which features on the agenda. if you believe that our problems will pass with the current crisis, think again. as they admit, competition from emerging economies is intensifying. what will be the european council’s strategy to deal with this? more globalisation, open the door to more goods from the emerging third world economies, export jobs by off-shore employment. the countries of europe can only compete with the goods, services and employees of the third world and emerging economies if our wage rates fall to their level – and do not think innovations in capital and techniques will save us. our innovations of today will belong to the world the day after tomorrow. globalisation spells poverty for the nations of europe.
madam president, can i just say in relation to migration flows that you will never solve the problem of migration flows or have a strong enough border unless you deal with the causes why people feel they have no option but to leave the countries in which they live, often in the most appalling circumstances. that is why at the g20 there must be absolute determination to address the issue of poverty, torture and the denial of basic rights, such as the right to food, the right to water, the right to education and the right to sanitation. yesterday in this house we passed, by a considerable majority, my report on the millennium development goals and the mid-term review. what is clear is that the g20 must maintain their commitments on financing the 0.7% which has been agreed. now is not the time to back away. there needs to be an international financial tax to bring additionality to deal with the whole issue of mitigating the effects of climate change, which have enormous impacts on migratory flows, on food security issues. so there must be agreement among the g20. failure to agree means that we will lose our moral and legal authority.
madam president, creating jobs and growth is a noble aim. the question is how we achieve them. i fail to see how we can achieve them by cutting spending quickly and deeply. unfortunately it seems that many member states, through political dogma, are intent on doing this. in the uk, despite lower debt and growth forecasts, the government is relishing the prospect of cuts in public spending and public services. instead, we should be planning for the future and planning for growth. the eu should do likewise. we need to ensure we have strong policies and adequate funding for research and development, for education and training and of course for cohesion policy and structural funds, which is so important to many regions right across the eu. i would hope the council recognises this and puts in place those policies and prepares for recovery and growth.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, given russia’s physical proximity to the eu and its trillion-dollar economy and huge natural resources, particularly gas, the eu’s strategic relationship with russia is of vital importance. my group acknowledges that russia has a key role to play internationally as a permanent member of the un security council. in particular, russia has an important part to play with regard to the situation in north korea and, via the quartet, in the middle east process, and also in persuading iran to desist from its nuclear weapons programme and in persuading turkey to open its borders with armenia. in ukraine, a country dear to my heart, the election of president yanukovych has substantially improved the previously strained relations between moscow and kiev, but the controversial decision to extend russia’s leases on its naval bases in the crimea should not be take as a sign that ukraine has rejected the european union and returned fully into the arms of mother russia. in particular, we should repudiate the statement by russia’s foreign minister, sergey lavrov, that ukraine eventually joining the european union is not in russia’s vital national interest. president yanukovych only won a narrow victory, and at least half of all ukrainians support closer ties for their country with the european union; we cannot simply walk away from our responsibility to respond positively to their aspirations.
mr president, i do not wish to delay the house long, but we have 43 pages of votes to take now. how much longer are we going to put up with the ridiculous state of affairs where this house cannot get its voting procedures in order? we were told we would start at 12 noon. it is now going to be 12.50. it will be a long time before we are finished. i ask you to invite the president and the bureau to make it quite clear to commissioners, ministers and anyone else, that they should run their timetable round our procedures, not the other way round, and that we vote at the proper times as advertised. (applause)
mr president, on a previous occasion when this house voted to reject a proposal from the commission – in that case a directive concerning oil reserves – it was referred back to the relevant committee because the commission did not emphatically confirm that it was going to withdraw the proposal. the commissioner has chosen his words very carefully. i disagree with ms berès’s interpretation. it should go back to the committee until we know whether the commission will withdraw its proposal or not. (applause)
mr president, i just want to move the words ‘of origin’ in this paragraph, so it reads: ‘the country or place of provenance’. that is much more transparent for consumers.
mr president, i am deeply concerned about the recent statement made by the european council president claiming that member states agree to submit their budgets to the commission in advance of their national parliaments. this was simply incorrect and it was clear attempt by mr van rompuy to bounce member states into agreeing a further transfer of powers to the eu. requiring member states to first submit their budgets to the commission would constitute a gross breach of national sovereignty. i am pleased that the uk government has now corrected president van rompuy and is resolute in reiterating that the house of commons will be the first to see and approve our budgets. this is non-negotiable. member states who wish to pursue further economic and fiscal integration should be free to do so, but it should not be forced on countries like the united kingdom, who wish to retain their economic sovereignty.
mr president, i voted against this report, not because i do not believe in translation of criminal proceedings – it is of course very important that there is correct interpretation and translation in these proceedings. however, what this actually does is purport to add greater competence under the echr. the united kingdom is already a signatory under the echr and it was incorporated into our law in 1998, as it is, i believe, across the european union. what we need to ask ourselves is why the european union is going down this road. i believe it is going down this road – and i think we all know why it is going down this road – because this is another step on the road to statehood. that is why i voted against this. national governments must make these decisions. it is not for you: you are not a country. how many times do we have to say this?
mr president, i and my colleagues in the uk independence party abstained on this vote, but not because we have any objection in principle to there being proper translation services for those finding themselves in foreign courts. but to vote for this would mean endorsing the stockholm programme and the harmonisation of european legal systems. as we have seen with the european arrest warrant, this means the destruction of the centuries-old safeguards against unjust arrest and imprisonment under english law. worse is to come with trials in absentia and the common recognition of fines and confiscation orders etc. anyone who believes that national courts should have the right to protect their own citizens must oppose the harmonisation of the legal systems and the stockholm programme.
mr president, i voted to reject this report and i am delighted that this chamber has rejected it. i represent the west midlands in the united kingdom, one of the worst areas of unemployment in the united kingdom. what people do in the west midlands, as they do across the uk, is that we start small businesses; indeed most employment in the united kingdom comes from small business and this report is just another attack on small businesses. had it got through, it would have been an indicator that if you started a small business you would be over- and over-regulated, so i am hoping that this chamber and the commission will not bring this report back to the chamber and will also see its rejection as an indicator for further legislation not to over-regulate small business. we need revival in our economy, not over-regulation.
mr president, other labour meps and i myself voted in the end for the sommer report in the final vote because we feel progress was made, particularly in two areas: country-of-origin and front-of-pack labelling. however, we do have major reservations about the vote to delete national voluntary labelling schemes, such as the ones which are practised by major retailers in the united kingdom. these are totally voluntary schemes and, from all the evidence, consumers like these schemes. we will see what happens in the council about the retention of national schemes. we hope that when it comes to second reading, if we cannot get agreement across europe on traffic lights, at least those countries that have developed national schemes which work and which are well understood should be able to retain those schemes.
mr president, i voted against this resolution. while there is no legislative effect, it nevertheless reflects the direction in which the european union is heading. it is a blueprint for economic governance of europe by the european union. as we have heard this morning from mr barroso and the heads of most of the political groups, this is precisely what they want. the current financial crisis is seen as a beneficial crisis to extend the power of the european union. i represent the city of london, which faces potential destruction from proposed european union legislation. economic governance by europe would destroy the british economy as a whole. one sensible thing that the resolution did contain was mr pieper’s amendment allowing countries to exit the european single currency. i was happy to vote for that but unfortunately it was defeated.
in writing. − i welcome this report and estonia's entry into the eurozone. this has been long overdue and under the current circumstances should be welcomed.
in writing. − the right to adequate translation and interpretation during criminal proceedings is a fundamental one and one which becomes increasingly important with enhanced judicial cooperation across the eu as well as more mobile populations. the ludford report strikes a good balance and i accordingly voted in favour.
in writing. − ukip voted against amendments 1 and 29 so as to restore the commission intention to exclude independent drivers from this directive. we believe that requiring independent drivers to account for the time spent arranging their schedules and bidding for new business will be impossible to monitor, especially when this is done at home, as well as using part of their allocated maximum working hours per week. this will result in less driving, causing them to become less competitive and resulting in unemployment. ukip also believes in the freedom of individuals to set up in business and to work for themselves, but this directive will prevent that from taking place. since this is not a health and safety issue the only winners will be big businesses.
in writing. − i voted to reject the commission proposal for a directive on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities. i am aware of the fact that traditional drivers attach great importance to their independence. however, voting against was the only way to force the commission to come forward with a proposal to deal with the use of bogus self-employed drivers, which poses a direct threat to the genuinely self-employed and to other drivers in paid employment, by undermining pay and conditions in the sector. when we solve this fundamental problem we can have another look at what is best for genuinely self-employed drivers.
in writing. − the health and safety of workers is paramount, in particular regarding road transport because accidents affect pedestrians and passengers of other vehicles too.
in writing. − ukip voted against the sommer report in the european parliament because it is a sloppily-drafted dog’s dinner which does not clearly support country of origin labelling for simple foods like meats and eggs. ukip policy is to support country of origin labelling to help producers selling their goods and for consumers to know with certainty where their food is coming from. we have rejected the report because it fails to defend the interests of farmers and consumers, while allowing large retailers to confuse the consumer. the rapporteur herself has stated she is afraid the proposal is moving too fast. ukip believe meps are acting without sufficient information on this matter.
in writing. − ukip voted against the sommer report in the european parliament because it is badly drafted, with inadequate definitions. the country-of-origin statement was badly worded, giving rise to confusion. ukip policy is to support country-of-origin labelling to help producers and consumers to know with certainty where their food is coming from. we rejected the report because it fails to defend the interests of farmers and consumers, while allowing large retailers to confuse the public. ukip believes meps are acting without sufficient information on this matter.
in writing. − there has been intense lobbying on this issue in recent weeks and months and it is to be regretted that in today's final vote the lobbying of some of the larger players in the food industry has triumphed over consumer interests. nevertheless, the final report does signal progress in some aspects of food labelling and on balance is to welcomed as a step in the right direction.
in writing. − i welcome this report which will make traffic light labelling of food mandatory. this is the system most preferred by consumers and will allow them to take control of their diet. i also welcome the protected status for the labelling of scotch whisky from scotland.
in writing. − this report will mean that energy, fat, saturates, sugar and salt levels will have to be clearly displayed on the front of all pre-packed foods. it sends a clear message to consumers about the importance of healthy eating and making the right choices. unfortunately, a socialist amendment that would have introduced a clear "traffic light" system, making the choice clearer for consumers, was defeated. this report also extended the rules on country-of-origin labelling to all meat, poultry and dairy products, which should put an end to products produced with imported ingredients being misleadingly labelled as, for example, british – a move that should be welcomed by both farmers and consumers across the eu.
in writing. − as s&d rapporteur, i recommended my group to support the amended report and legislative resolution amending the commission proposal on food information to consumers. we voted against the deletion of the possibility for voluntary, non-binding national schemes to continue, which my group and i are firmly opposed to. this deletion was nonetheless approved by the plenary. nevertheless, we had many positive outcomes on other aspects, including mandatory country-of-origin labelling and ensuring that key ingredients are labelled on front of pack and a full nutrition declaration is placed on the back of the pack, which is a definite improvement on the commission proposal. i now call on member states in the council to reinsert national schemes and introduce colour coding so that consumers have access to clear, up-front and honest food information.
in writing. − tomorrow hopefully we will see the formal process to allow iceland in to the eu, which should be our priority. i would like to see a joint parliamentary committee between the european parliament and the althingi formally established.
mr president, i should like to say to baroness ashton that i welcome her statement to the house today. i well remember her first statement on israel and gaza and i recognise that her statement today has been somewhat more measured, although incomplete, as my colleague has just pointed out. for those of us who have lived under terrorist threat, i have considerable empathy with the plight faced by innocent israeli citizens who have suffered from indiscriminate rocket attacks. israel has sought to defend itself from smuggled iranian rockets by imposing the blockade of gaza and to an extent this tactic has been successful in reducing the attacks on israeli citizens. i believe that this house ought to defend the right of any state to defend its citizens from such attack. for ordinary people living in gaza this has caused difficulty and i have no doubt that, as we have seen, many members will rise to praise the so-called peace flotilla. there were genuine people on board and yet there were those whose intentions were less than noble. many of us believe that this was an effort to seek a confrontation in order to get a propaganda coup. regrettably, that happened and, regrettably, lives were lost. it would be easy to use this to advance an anti-israeli agenda in this house but that would not be helpful and would not be helpful to the furtherance of peace. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, baroness ashton, your approach to this matter is commendable. the fact that you, through your office, visited gaza in the way that you did, and the very public statements that you have made since that time, makes quite clear to members of this house the seriousness with which you and your office approach this issue. this is of course a humanitarian question along with so many other issues as well, but i bear in mind the history as to why we find ourselves where we are today and i have very clear recollections of debates taking place in this house in 2006, both in february and in april, where so many members one after another urged both the eu and israel not to cut the people of gaza loose in this way. but that is exactly what we did and our reaction was wrong. by suffocating the people of gaza we find ourselves in this situation today. there is only one way to move forward now, and that is to face the issue of the blockade head on. there are real practical measures we can take, the first of which must be to ensure that israel acts in a manner whereby it allows permitted goods through and not simply have a list in the way that they are operating today. please concentrate your mind on that fact immediately.
mr president, i am a friend of israel, but i do not regard it as delegitimisation of the state of israel to criticise the actions of the current israeli government. i not only regret the nine deaths and thirty-odd injured but i deplore the overreaction and disproportionate use of force by the israeli army. i want the blockade to end, with checks on illicit arms. i will not be supporting the resolution as i think it is absurd to condemn israel for breach of international law first and to call for an inquiry second, and there is much which is not yet clear, including the role of the turkish ihh organisation. israel is capable of holding a credible inquiry and must hold one. i am a friend of turkey as well as israel. turkey has reason for anger, but it is very unwise to put out an official leaflet which talks about israel having lost its legitimacy with a photo which includes a placard ‘judaism rejects the zionist state’. i hope both israel and turkey come round to reason.
mr president, in my short time let me simply repeat inside this chamber the words said to us just outside this morning by six survivors of the attack. they reminded us that, not only did nine people die, but 55 were wounded and today seven remain in a serious condition. they said that they represent a coalition of ngos from 32 different countries. they were christians, jews, muslims, atheists – from many religions and cultures. they said their cargo was totally humanitarian, their funding was entirely from individual donations, their commitment was to the principle of non-violence. they said that some of them were assassinated, and now their characters are being assassinated. a ship’s captain told how he saw the beating, heard the screaming. they told us they have six ships all ready for a second flotilla in july and that they will keep sending the boats, even if they are attacked again. they asked us not to use words after the events, but to take action to prevent this happening again. mr president, they say that a country which asserts its legal right to self-defence should not criticise others for defending themselves and for upholding the rights we should all respect according to international humanitarian law.
mr president, i too deeply regret the loss of life in the ihh gaza flotilla. however, i despair at the hysterical outbreak of israel-bashing in this house. israel is not perfect, but it is a democracy. it may have made some serious mistakes in this operation, and i await the outcome of the inquiry assisted by a canadian and british expert before passing judgement, but what is sure is that the idf had no intention to use lethal force, and the commandos were shocked at the ferocity of the life-threatening attacks they sustained by ihh militants and responded in self-defence. my question to the high representative is, why did the government of turkey collude with this provocative mission? why were children and women allowed to be taken into a naval blockade area and a potential conflict zone? the blockade was in place to interdict the flow of iranian-paid arms to an eu-banned terrorist organisation, hamas, which is hell-bent on killing innocent israeli civilians. the blockade is a legitimate action, in my view, and we must also take that into consideration.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, history teaches us that usually countries with the highest standards of human rights are also the most prosperous and peaceful. we should therefore be proud of what the eu has achieved in this respect, but those achievements compel us to redouble our efforts to promote human rights around the world. we are currently faced with many egregious examples of wanton disregard of human rights. take the case of iran, where adulterers, homosexuals, religious minorities, political dissidents and even minors are regularly executed. look at north korea, where isolation means we can only surmise what horrific abuses are actually taking place there in their concentration camps, particularly for those attempting to flee that brutal stalinist nightmare. consider burma, where the military junta terrorises the population, and venezuela, whose leader hugo chávez has systematically stifled political dissent and closed down the media. closer to home, the award last year of parliament’s sakharov prize to russian human rights defenders underlines our concerns about that country, where impunity still prevails, particularly in the investigation of murdered journalists. and what exactly does their army get up to in the north caucasus? we do not really know. of course, human rights cannot, and must not, be the sole arbiter of the eu’s relations with third countries. the people’s republic of china, for example, enjoys a growing economic and strategic relationship with the union, but continues to brutally suppress fundamental freedoms and even censors the internet. we have similar links to saudi arabia, where alcoholics are beheaded, and pakistan, which bans the ahmadi muslims. we need to be realistic about what we can actually achieve, but we should never stop trying to convince others of the virtues of our democratic values that have served us so well and are the universal sign of a civilised society. prohibiting the trade in instruments that can be used exclusively for torture is one very useful action that the eu can take in demonstrating that we do take this issue very seriously indeed.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i have no doubt that all of us here are in favour of human rights. indeed, many of these are rooted in the finest traditions of english laws – such as magna carta of 1215, which outlawed arbitrary imprisonment, and the work of the british lawyers who wrote much of the european convention on human rights after the war. but it seems that a worthy agenda of human rights has now been hijacked by greedy lawyers and political opportunists. over the water from the uk, here in strasbourg, sits the european court of human rights. now its committee of ministers has ruled that britain must overturn its ban on allowing prisoners to vote because it violates the human rights of prisoners. but are human rights not meant to protect decent, law-abiding citizens, not terrorists, hijackers, murderers and law-breakers? is it really any court’s job to ask us, as politicians, to seek votes from the likes of ian huntley, the paedophile who murdered two little girls in soham, in my constituency? is it justice to seek his approval? is it right to knock on the cell door of rose west, a serial killer, securing her support? and what of abu qatada, bin laden’s right-hand man in europe? who will he be voting for? possibly the liberal democrats, because they support this nonsense! yet, seriously, these large prison populations could swing marginal votes, especially at the local level. so there should be no equivalence of rights between decent, law-abiding citizens and those of murderers and criminals. they forfeited their right to participate in the political process when they took other people’s lives, other people’s rights and other people’s property. what about the rights of victims? what about human responsibilities rather than just rights? like the euro, i believe the currency of human rights is rapidly being debased. we need a return to good common sense.
mr president, as the rapporteur points out, under the terms of the united nations charter every member state has a responsibility to ensure that respect for human rights is universal. the european convention on human rights, however, seems to think differently, as it bestows special rights on some at the expense of others. the special rights, for example, bestowed on travellers have meant that in the uk, in my own west midlands constituency, local people have seen their own rights eroded. with the protection of the convention, so-called travellers can build on land that our people have nurtured and set aside for future generations to enjoy. this is known as greenbelt land. with the protection of the convention, travellers enjoy special privileges in health care and education, services built up at great expenses by successive generations. in my local community, citizens are mounting 24-hour vigils in wind and rain in order to ensure that travellers comply with legal obligations. they are prepared to lie down in the road at great personal risk in order to stop convoys of lorries from delivering concrete and asphalt. these are hardworking, law-abiding citizens who only want to protect their own rights and those of their families. thanks to the convention, we now have to fight for those rights in the fields and lanes of rural england. i agree with the rapporteur. we must pay tribute to the defenders of human rights wherever they may be, in iran, in gaza, in cyprus – or, thanks to the convention, in the english countryside. this may seem trivial when compared to the plight of so many people in the world, but the point i am trying to make is that human rights are in danger everywhere; rights that were so hard fought in our own land are as precious to us as they are to anyone else.
mr president, first can i pay tribute to my friend and colleague mrs hautala for her report on human rights defenders and also for the excellent way she chairs our human rights subcommittee. i also want to welcome in this debate the annual human rights report and the painstaking work that is carried out at different levels in good faith for this european union to honour our human rights obligations. i welcome the growing number and importance of our human rights dialogues with third countries reflected in the report, but the dialogues, like the report itself, cannot be an end in themselves. that is why i want to acknowledge the discussions that high representative ashton is having with us about how human rights are integrated and mainstreamed to the new external action service. it will be a crucial test of whether we mean what we say. i want to place on record that we are discussing ideas such as maintaining a horizontal human rights directorate, vesting human rights responsibility at assistant secretary-general level as well as maintaining human rights desks in each geographic directorate and in every eu delegation worldwide. some of these may be contained in the legal decision and declaration, others may come later, and i do not want to contribute towards any further delay, but, as this parliament learnt when it wound up its human rights subcommittee only to have to reappoint it, mainstreaming human rights is more easily said than done. so, when the high representative commits herself to mainstreaming human rights, i am absolutely sure her commitment is sincere, but in calling it a silver thread running through her new service, this parliament wants to work with her to ensure it is a thread which does not work loose or get hidden inside the hem.
mr president, baroness ashton, there is an abuse of human rights in the european union which hopefully we can do something about as it is quite specific. i would like to draw your attention to conditions in the greek prison of korydallos. this is the only prison in greece where foreign nationals are held on remand. british citizens extradited to greece will almost inevitably find themselves in korydallos. my constituent andrew symeou spent 11 months in korydallos awaiting trial. he is now on bail, but six more british citizens that i know of face extradition and almost inevitable incarceration there. you may be aware that korydallos is universally condemned by organisations such as amnesty international and fair trials abroad as having some of the worst conditions of any prison in the world. it is in clear breach of article 3 of the european convention on human rights. do you agree with me that... (the president cut off the speaker.)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i have lived and worked in korea and last week i was in seoul with our european parliamentary delegation. i heard the account of the cheonan sinking directly from our korean hosts and it is abundantly clear that north korea was responsible. the explosion in disputed waters was outside the hull, not inside, and the remains of a north korean torpedo were found on the seabed near the sunken frigate. as one informed commentator said after reviewing the evidence, if it was not the north koreans, it must have been the martians! while we express our outrage at this act of warfare, let us not forget the appalling human rights situation in north korea. shortages of food, water and electricity, media access barred, 200 000 people in concentration camps dying from overwork, from starvation and physical abuse. the 3 a.m. knock on the door. punishment extended to children and grandchildren. newborn babies of returned refugees strangled in front of their mothers. in a real sense the whole of north korea has been turned into a vast concentration camp. when we consider their acts of internal repression and external piracy and aggression, their determined pursuit of a nuclear weapon, their prevarication at the six-party talks, their constant sabre-rattling and threats, it is clear that the clique around the ‘dear leader’ kim jong il is a bunch of irrational and paranoid psychopaths. for that reason i commend the joint motion to the house.
madam president, the so-called democratic people’s republic of korea, or north korea, to me is the last example of a brutal stalinist totalitarian state in the entire world with a cult of personality to boot and i think the ‘dear leader’ is now actually nurturing his son to take over from his brutal regime. the sinking by a north korean submarine of a south korean naval ship with 46 of its crew dead is a murderous act of outrageous proportions. the facts are very clear, and british and swedish experts participated in the international investigation into this incident. the people’s republic of china must now use its leverage, both economic and political, over this pariah state and bring it to book, and the dprk must apologise and compensate the victims’ families to whom i would now wish to offer my deepest condolences and commiserations for this tragedy.
i have received six motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday 17 june 2010), at 12.00. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on bosnia and herzegovina.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, bosnia and herzegovina incites, at least in me, feelings of both affection and frustration. it needs tough love from us and i think that is what it gets from doris pack. the insistence on reform to make the state work properly is not because of some esoteric desire to dictate or to interfere. commissioner füle rightly talked about the economic conditions making the political difficulties more acute. a functional state is essential to welcoming investment, taking up eu funding and export opportunities, thus creating jobs. so reform and economic aspects are intertwined. we desperately need also the reforms to respect human rights and justice and fight corruption. i am very keen on visa-free travel, on the visa liberalisation, and i hope to help in the foreign affairs and civil liberties committee to secure that, we hope, by the autumn. that would be very good news, i think, for bosnian citizens.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2). the debate is closed. the will take place tomorrow (thursday 17 june 2010) at 12.00.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we would all welcome a successful conclusion to the eu-us open skies agreement. indeed, after several years of negotiation, it is really rather overdue. obviously this second-stage draft agreement is a significant breakthrough and is to be welcomed. i acknowledge that negotiators have made progress in the areas of security, competition and market access, but i am disappointed at the failure to resolve fully issues of foreign ownership and control and cabotage. we also support parliament’s motion for a joint resolution. however, i am concerned that specific references to ets, eu social issues and a date deadline have been included in the text, as we do not have the authority to broaden the scope of air service agreements. the aviation industry has suffered massively over the last decade and although there is some improvement, it is still fragile, particularly in europe. agreements often mean compromise, but that does not mean we want a deal at any price. it is about give and take. so finally i would say to the commissioner that we want an agreement which is fair, robust and leads to full liberalisation which will benefit european carriers, consumers and our american friends.
mr president, members will recall a previous debate in this chamber in which i, as chairman of the committee on transport, highlighted the lamentable record of member states in implementing the first railway package. this resolution is a follow-up to that debate and proves, i hope, to the other institutions that parliament not only expects the member states to implement what they agreed to back in 2001, but also expects the commission to use its legal powers to ensure that this happens. the first railways directive, as mr fidanza said, should have been transposed by member states in march 2003. the fact that 22 states have failed to do this shows a lamentable effort on the part of the member states and, despite what the commission says, a pretty poor and slow effort at protecting eu law by the commission. this failure reminds us of the many obstacles that still remain when attempting to revitalise europe’s rail sector and the rhetoric that often emanates from both inside and outside the rail industry. indeed this very week we have seen one country and its major rail company lobbying hard against mr marinescu’s report. thankfully, they failed miserably, but yet again it highlights to us that certain rail companies and certain member states are more concerned with self-interest rather than european interests. i believe the transport committee is running out of patience with the lack of progress on this dossier. this lack of progress is slowly strangling the ability of european railways to compete effectively and the long list of infringement proceedings taken out against member states simply serves to reinforce the urgency of taking action. we need a true european perspective for our railway network and this can only be achieved if all the different actors are fully committed to that goal. we expect the council to deliver on their agreements, and we expect the commission to ensure that they do. the commissioner has given us some assurances tonight, but it is action that we want to see. today is mr cramer’s birthday, and i hope that we can deliver this package in his and all of our lifetimes!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, may i join previous speakers in expressing sympathy for all those who have suffered in recent floods, including today here in france. such natural disasters have become all too frequent in recent years. in september 2008 heavy flooding hit north-east england, with the towns of morpeth and rothbury particularly badly hit. the floodwaters receded after a few hours, but the damage took many months to repair and cost millions of pounds. surely these floods are a wake-up call, a reminder that the cost of dealing with the consequences of climate change is far higher than the cost of getting global warming under control, as nicholas stern and others have pointed out. i am very concerned that this basic fact is being overlooked. we hear some industry voices complaining about the cost of cutting co2 emissions, so it is very important to publicise the message of this debate: that flooding is hugely damaging to communities and to the economy. there is only one way to stop a costly increase in natural disasters, and that is to follow the road map to our emission-reduction targets for 2020 and 2050.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we, the few of us left in this room from the committee on legal affairs, are all very keen on the stockholm programme, but there is no point in us sitting in this place or in brussels and passing new laws if our judges in the member states do not know that law and are not proficient in interpreting it on behalf of our citizens. frankly, the situation at the moment is not good. we ask a lot of our national judges. they have to know their national law, their european law, we expect them to know foreign law – all the laws of our 27 member states – to know languages, and to have a comparative knowledge of various legal systems. to achieve all that takes time – probably several lifetimes – and money. it is going to be difficult to achieve this with our current judges, with the best will in the world. they have to find time and space to do this. we can try to do our best through various linkages, exchange programmes and continuing education. but the member states also have to help us. but i want to look to the future, because it is the young law students of today who will be the judges of tomorrow, and there we have to concentrate on getting the legal education of today right for the judges of the future in a european judicial space.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me thank the european parliament for recalling the importance of the effective conservation of whales ahead of the annual meeting of the international whaling commission taking place next week in agadir, morocco. the priority issue in relation to this forthcoming meeting of the international whaling commission is to find a solution for the future of the iwc. the stated objectives of the iwc are to conserve whales and to manage whaling operations. following years of over-harvesting, the iwc adopted a moratorium on commercial whaling in 1982. since then, years of unresolved debate over the proper means to conserve, utilise and study whales have made members of the iwc concerned about the bodies of future relevance. therefore, a process was started to resolve this deadlock situation. as you know the european union is very committed to the protection of whales and has put in place legislation that ensures a high level of protection in this regard. commercial whaling is not allowed in the european union. based on this strong will to conserve whales, last year the council adopted a decision on the eu position for the next three annual meetings of the international whaling commission. the overarching objective of the decision was, i quote, ‘to ensure an effective, international regulatory framework for the conservation and management of whales guaranteeing a significant improvement in the status of whales in the long term and bringing all whaling operations under the control of the international whaling commission’. so the eu calls for effective protection of whales worldwide, and in this respect we still view the iwc as an instrument to achieve this objective at global level. the european union is encouraged by the current efforts to break the long-standing deadlock within the iwc. however, we cannot accept a final compromise unless this paves the way for a truly effective regulatory framework of the conservation and management of whales, a framework that would guarantee a significant improvement in their status in the long term. we need to maintain the moratorium on commercial whaling and put all whaling operations under iwc control. the eu is assessing proposals such as the current iwc chair’s compromise, and commissioner potočnik, who is in charge of the assessment, will inform you accordingly in due course. we will also need to maximise the european union’s influence in the international whaling commission. this means ensuring unity in external representation and sincere cooperation among the member states of the european union. madam president, honourable members, i can assure you that the european union will work constructively in the international whaling commission – and elsewhere, of course – towards obtaining a good universal agreement for the conservation of whales as highlighted in the resolution of the european parliament of 2009. with a solid european union position we can contribute to a constructive solution that will ensure the most effective protection of whales worldwide.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, throughout my career as a member of this house i have been a staunch defender of animal welfare. i have no enthusiasm for whaling, and i would like to see the moratorium on commercial whaling retained for as long as the species, or some of the species, are endangered. however, i recognise that for some european countries including denmark and iceland – and iceland is hoping to be a candidate to join our union shortly – whaling is so much more than a mere commercial activity. it is central to these countries’ identity, culture and heritage. bull-fighting continues lawfully in the european union, and this is a so-called sport. at least no one can say that whaling is pursued as a sport. if whaling is to resume officially, or continue for scientific research or so-called scientific research outside of the moratorium, we should at least insist on strict regulation and on the type of whale being hunted, because obviously some are more abundant in the oceans than others, and catch limits must be strictly enforced. we must also insist on whaling vessels using more rapid, more humane and efficient ways of killing that minimise the distress of these magnificent cetaceans. as a member of a reformist group, the ecr, i am inclined to respect the right of sovereign states to hunt whales for food, although this should not prevent me and others who care about animal welfare from lobbying those countries to stop it.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the british public are aggressively against whaling. if britain’s hands are tied to one harmonised eu abstention on whaling, it will guarantee a return to slaughter. the inhumane japanese are giving incentives to third world countries to stop: and look at the return to whaling. it is murder. the japanese government should be regarded as socially unacceptable for doing this in a modern world. the british were once heavily involved but have consigned the mistake to a previous century. if the uk is stopped by the eu from voting against this, while the japanese and others murder these beautiful, sensitive and intelligent mammals, the uk public will vote to leave the eu in uncontrollable anger. it will be the kiss of death for britain’s membership of the eu.
madam president, what the commissioner said is quite encouraging about the emerging eu position, because the eu will have an important role in the iwc – a quarter of the membership – and with the potential to get allies we could be a major player there. however, i want to clarify a number of points. madam commissioner, you said that commissioner potočnik was studying the chair’s compromise, but from what i have seen of the compromise it would legitimise commercial whaling in japan, norway and iceland. that, i think, undermines the idea of a moratorium on commercial whaling. it legitimises whaling in an established iwc sanctuary in the southern ocean, which was mentioned by my colleague over there, and it would allow whaling to continue involving endangered species. i hope that when we consider the compromise we look very carefully at what the compromise is. i would like some clarity on media reports about the council’s position. the british media are reporting, as one or two colleagues have touched upon, that the commission lawyers are saying that if they cannot get a consensus in the eu, the 25 member states must abstain. could you clarify the exact position and tell us how close we are to having a common position for these crucial negotiations? as meps we have all had a letter from the australian government looking for support for a progressive position at the iwc. it would be a terrible shame if the eu could not find a common position. if we cannot find a common position on whaling, how on earth are we going to find common positions on other major international issues? we already have a problem in the mercury negotiations, and i think we have to resolve these problems in time. it is not good enough to see the eu abstaining like this. it does not do much for our credibility if that is the case. so, please could you clarify that crucial point?
madam president, i would also like to thank the commissioner. i think we, as the eu, have to be strong and robust on maintaining and strengthening the moratorium on commercial whaling. i agree with the commissioner that we must try and work across the eu and must act together. i am glad that she mentioned the 2009 report by our former colleague elspeth attwooll who wrote and worked a lot on the whaling issue. however, i would like to press the commissioner and the council on what are our specific red lines. as many colleagues have said, the compromise looks as though it gives a lot away. will we ensure that the southern ocean whale sanctuary is just that, a sanctuary for whales, and will we rigorously defend the moratorium on commercial whaling? for example, will we ensure that the endangered species of fin and sei whales are actually absolutely protected? so i am interested in the red lines. can you highlight those?
madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur, mr milana, for his report. it represents a significant milestone in recognising the importance of this sector and its potential for future growth. as i have indicated on a number of occasions in committee, we should not, however, penalise our fishing industry, or indeed the aquaculture sector in europe, whilst we import so much produce, much of which is produced under much less stringent environmental and social conditions than is expected of the sector here. in terms of the northern ireland fishing industry, aquaculture is a small sector with a value of first-sale fish and shellfish in 2008 of gbp 9.6 million. it gives employment to 91 full-time and 56 part-time men and women. yet these figures hide what we believe has been a success story. the last 10 years have witnessed a significant expansion in this sector, most notably with the production of mussels, which accounts for much of the 8 500 tonnes of shellfish harvested annually in northern ireland. indeed it is a trait of northern ireland’s industry that its success with minimal eu interference has attracted investment from other parts of europe, and particularly from the netherlands. opportunities exist for the continuing sustainable development of the aquaculture sector and smile, the sustainable mariculture in northern irish loch ecosystems, provides shellfish aquaculture carrying capacity predictions for each of the northern ireland sea lochs. it is this kind of initiative that lends itself so well to this report on a strategy for europe’s aquaculture sector and one of the reasons why i am glad to support it.
madam president, can i too add my congratulations that others have shown for the report and for the author’s good work. can i start by just saying that scotland is the third largest aquaculture producer in europe: we account for gbp 350 million per year of annual output, and aquaculture provides employment for 2 000 people throughout scotland, with a further 2 000 jobs upstream and downstream. but, most importantly of all, aquaculture provides opportunities for employment in remote and island areas around scotland where no other jobs are available. it is a fundamental part of the rural and island fabric around scotland, and therefore it has the potential to grow and provide further employment and underpin the vitality and economic prosperity of many small rural and island areas. one of the big challenges for the industry is that it is hidebound by over-regulation and conflicting regulation, in many cases preventing its growth. so i welcome the report’s call for a proposal to consolidate and simplify regulation. but i would make a plea that, in bringing forward the proposals, it genuinely does simplify and genuinely does reduce bureaucracy, and that we do not end up with a situation where we have another layer of regulation on top of what is already there – that actually does not simplify and reduce the framework. one other plea i think we should make is to continue investing in research and development. we need to find a substitute for fishmeal – this is absolutely fundamental for the future of the industry. i also think it is worthwhile encouraging the european union to invest in the industry, to see its potential growth realised and provide jobs in these areas where there is no other alternative employment available.
madam president, scotland is rightly well known for its production of large quantities of atlantic salmon. we also farm species of trout and we farm halibut and some arctic char. in shellfish, too, high-quality oysters and scallops are grown within scotland. scotland succeeds at high-quality aquaculture because of our environment and because of our clean waters. they are so well-suited to the activity, and it is self-evident that we must protect that environment. aquaculture in scotland supports many fragile rural and island communities with very substantial numbers of jobs in the processing sector. if we are to develop a new eu strategy – as the report says – for aquaculture, we should be focusing on simplification and streamlining of regulation: i certainly agree with our rapporteur on that. but what we must not do is centralise management and control at european union level. let us learn from the mistakes of the cfp. scotland has its own strategic framework for aquaculture, which should be supported by european union input, as and where appropriate.
madam president, this is becoming a bit of a scottish debate, i think! first of all, let me too congratulate mr milana for his great cooperation and consultation during the progress of his work. i think it is an excellent report and i really feel that this report heralds a new dawn for european aquaculture. that is also mirrored by the support and enthusiasm for fish farming which we have heard in repeated comments from commissioner damanaki herself. so this is good news: it is what we have been demanding for years. europe used to lead the world in the production of farmed fish but in recent years we have allowed our eye to go off the ball. we have allowed our non-eu competitors to assume dominance in this sector and we have seen our indigenous industry haemorrhage jobs to countries outside the eu. we import over 60% of our seafood needs when we are perfectly capable of producing this food ourselves. aquaculture is the fastest-growing food sector in the world, and in europe we have the perfect environment for fish farming: we have an almost limitless coastline with ideal bays, fjords and sea conditions; we lead the world in the science and technology necessary for a thriving aquaculture sector. and yet we are in danger of starving in a land of plenty. why is this? well, as we have heard from other speakers, it is because aquaculture has become one of the most heavily regulated sectors in the entire food production industry in europe, and i am appalled that i have heard speakers this morning calling for even more regulation. eu fish farmers have to deal with over 400 different pieces of regulation, not to mention additional planning and environmental constraints in their own member states, before they can reel in a single fish, and this is not simply from dg mare, it is also dg envi, dg trade, dg cinco and a host of other agencies. by tying the hands of our fish farmers with red tape we have simply handed a competitive advantage to countries like china, japan and vietnam – just look at the vast quantities of low-quality pangasius we import from the mekong delta, as mr cadec said. so i regard mr milana’s report as a breakthrough; let us cut the red tape and allow europe’s fish farmers once again to lead the world in aquaculture.
madam president, i welcome the opportunity this morning to have this debate because aquaculture has not received enough recognition for its importance. i think it has great opportunities for the future. the one thing i would also make very clear is that i do not want to see it over-regulated. i think most people have made this clear this morning. yes, there is a great need to ensure that the environment is protected, because if we do not protect the environment we will not have any aquaculture in any of these areas. that is the bottom line. i do not want to see the same mistakes made with aquaculture as we made with the common fisheries policy. mind you, that particular policy does not leave an awful lot to be desired, and i am not convinced that we need to do this eu-wide. i think we can maybe handle this better with encouragement at member state level. this is one of the fastest-growing areas. it is an area that must be encouraged, because many of our coastal regions are under great pressure, and this has great potential to develop. assistance to that development would be extremely welcome.
madam president, aquaculture is now a fully recognised part not just of the fisheries sector but of our food industry as a whole and i think it is vitally important that environmental sustainability should be our watch-word. i completely agree with what mrs rodust has said about pollution and i am pleased to see the dramatic improvements which have been made, in particular in the scottish aquaculture sector. i have to say i disagree with what mr stevenson said about regulation because i think part of the reason improvements were made and quality was retained was because of some of the rules that we actually introduced. however, i think, for the future of the aquaculture industry, research and development is absolutely pivotal and i would like to ask the commission to go a little further on what opportunities are available in the new framework programme, and to look at the technological developments where we can support our aquaculture industry, because quality has to be our watch-word. and on third-country issues, i think mandatory country-of-origin labelling is absolutely essential.
mr president, if regulations alone could save bluefin tuna then these should do the job but, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the operators will go to extraordinary lengths to cheat, and i fear that these may not curb them. has the commissioner received assurances from member states that they are taking tough measures to prevent black landings and to prevent the falsification of documents? can the commissioner tell us what penalties have been laid down by the member states in law and whether the courts are actually applying them? past experience suggests that sometimes these matters go to national courts and they dismiss them as hardly relevant. finally, japan has undermined our efforts in cites, but can the commissioner tell us whether she has received any undertakings from japan, the major importer of bluefin tuna, that they will help us protect the species? i fear not, but i would be delighted if she could prove me wrong.
mr president, by way of protest, the ecr group will not be voting for the joint resolution. we are voting against it because the alde coordinators organising the joint motion did not bother to invite our ecr group to participate in the negotiations, on the presumption that we would not sign the joint text. in all my 11 years as an mep i have never experienced this before. this is against all the conventions and traditions of this house and must not happen again. because of the order of voting, we will not even have a chance to vote on our own resolution.
in writing. − i fully support the eu’s work on supporting and defending human rights activists who face prison or even death for fighting for freedoms we take for granted.
in writing. − the first reading deal is welcomed by the s&d group. this should bring clarity to prospectus and bring the report in line with better regulation.
in writing. − bluefin tuna stocks have been dangerously over-exploited and today's vote is to be welcomed as one step towards rectifying the situation. the implementation of a regime enforcing full traceability will be a valuable tool in bringing about a more sustainable fishery.
in writing. − the collapse of bluefin tuna stocks should have been a wake-up call to us all. the fact that we failed to act quickly has resulted in the situation becoming a disaster. the over-exploitation and over-capacity of the fleet requires urgent action in order to ensure that there is a fisheries stock for the future.
in writing. − the independence and quality of statistical data is vitally important as we face a sovereign debt crisis in several eu member states. the need to renew confidence in this area is essential if we are to see our way out of this crisis and into a period of economic growth. after all, the eu 2020 strategy is all about growth, growth and growth.
in writing. − we need an urgent analysis of deficit reduction programmes in member states. women and children are disproportionately affected. this issue concerns us all.
in writing. − the ecr group believes that policy issues relating to childcare, healthcare, family life and employment law are not the responsibility of the eu but rather the responsibility of individual member states, under the principle of subsidiarity. for this reason we voted against the report as a whole. the ecr group has demonstrated, through voting in favour of articles 1, 18, and 28, that we fully support the principle of equality between men and women, including equal pay for equal work, the need for action on violence against women and moving towards a more gender-equal society.
in writing. − the ecr group is in favour of the key principle of equality between men and women, the need for action on violence against women and an end to gender-based discrimination in all areas, including pay. the ecr group abstained, however, on the final vote due to fundamental concerns about the report. the ecr group strongly and consistently opposes the further creation of any eu/gender agencies, further legislation at eu level on matters of domestic policy, and eu regulation in the areas of health, education, childcare and employment law. we consistently maintain that these policy issues are the sole responsibility of member states and we oppose action at eu level.
in writing. − the need for transparency and to prevent the exploitation of young and vulnerable players requires attention. often children are involved, where their needs are seen as less important than the profit made from agents and through sponsorship.
in writing. − our relationship with our russian neighbours is an important one, but it must be based on mutual respect and understanding. there needs to be openness and transparency.
in writing. − constituents across the south east of england have contacted me to express grave concern and outrage at the situation which left nine people dead after israeli defence forces soldiers boarded a turkish ship that was part of the flotilla en route to gaza. i can, therefore, vote on behalf of many of these constituents to strongly criticise the military operation which caused these deaths and i call for an international inquiry which will demonstrate where the blame can lie. at the same time, my constituents are aware of the vital difference between the right of israel to be able to defend itself and the right of gaza citizens to receive humanitarian aid.
in writing. − the resolution concerning the tragic deaths of those on the humanitarian flotilla is welcomed. an independent investigation is required. a resolution to the blockade of gaza and a political resolution to what is a humanitarian tragedy are urgently needed and long overdue.
in writing. − i welcome the decision of meps from across the political spectrum to support this strong resolution condemning israel for its unprovoked and disproportionate attacks on the free gaza humanitarian aid flotilla. i understand that this was the strongest position that parliament could adopt as a whole, due to differences in position between and within different political groups, and to have such a unified position sends a very clear and unambiguous message to israel and the international community. despite voting in favour of the resolution, however, i would have liked it to go even further. immediately following the attack on the flotilla, i wrote to commissioner cathy ashton, calling for an immediate suspension of the eu israel association agreement. israel has consistently breached the human rights clause of this agreement and its latest move should not be tolerated. i believe that we need actions as well as words from the eu to show that the international community deplores both the siege on gaza and israel’s attack on the free gaza flotilla. i will continue to call for the suspension of this agreement whenever the opportunity arises, until israel can demonstrate that it is upholding its human rights obligations towards palestine.
in writing. − the trade in goods used for torture should be investigated and stopped.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour today, even though i still believe that the usa has gained more out of these agreements than the eu. we still have made no progress on two important issues, namely market access and foreign ownership; and whilst many may believe these are areas that the usa will not move on, it is still right that we continue to pursue these important goals. i also agree that the setting of a timetable is a right move to make, but i agree with those who have indicated that this agreement still falls short of what parliament expected. i accept that progress has been made, but this, and the first stage agreement, have not been equitable; what we now require is for the usa to be more generous in the future on the key issues i have mentioned, before the eu gives away any more concessions in future discussions.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution.
in writing. − the milana report is a step in the right direction for the future of aquaculture. the need for greater access to research and development money is essential for the industry to remain at the cutting edge on sustainability and quality. the requirement for all imports from third countries to have mandatory country-of-origin labelling is important, but so too should all aquaculture products within the eu have mandatory country-of-origin labelling.
mr president, i would like to thank the authors of this resolution. the murder of floribert chebeya bahizire on 2 june has led to more than 50 organisations, and ban ki-moon himself, calling for an independent investigation. his work defending human rights led to threats to his life including repeated threats from the police, and it is my understanding that he was actually visiting an inspector at a police station on 1 june; we know that on 2 june his body was found. i would like to seek reassurances that the commission and the council will press for an independent investigation, and also that his family will be kept safe. i think that this is a reminder to us all that we take many of our human rights for granted. he defended human rights and he defended them to his death. he needs our respect.
mr president, this horrific case recalls the worst abuses that one of africa’s most noted kleptocrats, the late mobuto sese seko of zaire, a country that eventually became the drc. the change of name has sadly not changed the political culture in this country. human rights defenders still face grave dangers in doing their job. journalists are routinely threatened and sometimes killed. indeed, the name of floribert chebeya bahizire is the latest in a long line of courageous human rights defenders who paid the ultimate price for their convictions. i sincerely hope that this case will result in a conviction of another kind, and that in the longer term the eu will redouble its efforts to strengthen civil society in the drc. i am also convinced that the climate of political violence and impunity in the drc – and in other parts of africa sometimes – is linked to the control of resources, especially minerals. i have previously urged the commission to consider extending the kimberley process of certification beyond diamonds – the blood diamond story, as it were – to other minerals. i believe this would be a significant step forward in helping to address the lawlessness that continues to claim the lives of brave men such as this man in particular.
author. − mr president, nepal’s political instability is hardly surprising given the tumultuous changes that have taken place in that country over the last two decades. the palace massacres of 2001 fatally undermined the monarchy, and king gyanendra’s attempts to impose absolute rule to combat maoist insurgents failed dismally. the maoists took power and abolished the monarchy two years ago, but were quickly displaced by a coalition of their opponents. it would appear now that the advent of republican democracy has been a bit of a false dawn. certainly the ordinary people of nepal continue to suffer from high rates of unemployment, disease, malnutrition and, as this resolution makes clear, violence and even possibly torture. the rapid political changes in nepal were not accompanied, regrettably, by measures to promote reconciliation and good transitional justice. i hope the eu will concentrate its efforts now in this field in particular as well as providing essential humanitarian aid. nepal risks becoming a failing state and that is a risk we can ill afford with so many other security challenges in south asia.
mr president, i was very fortunate to have returned from nepal recently. the thing that we have to understand is that the nepalese political process is very fragile, but progressing. however, it is very unreasonable, i think, for the political process to continue without disarmament on the side of the maoists, because the maoists have refused to take part in the political process. they want a change of government but are refusing to disarm. you cannot have a political process where there is an armed group of people who will not give up their arms to the authorities. until this is secured by everybody concerned, we have to very gently persuade both sides in nepal that it is in the longer-term interests of all the people of nepal and the assistance of the european union that they all disarm and come together to form whatever unity government they can.
author. − mr president, personally i have never taken an absolutist stance with regard to the death penalty, but surely it should only ever be countenanced in a handful of the most extreme and egregious criminal cases where the conviction is by due process and beyond all doubt. however, i have very little confidence in the libyan judicial system under the arbitrary and dictatorial nature of muammar al-gaddafi’s regime. he remains a dictator who controls his people through coercion and is intolerant of any dissent; that makes a mockery of libya’s recent election to the un human rights council. nevertheless he exercises leverage over the eu and the west in general through his control of libya’s vast oil reserves. this important economic relationship notwithstanding, i do hope that the commission will continue to raise at every opportunity the grave concerns we have in this house about human rights and fundamental freedoms in libya. we all remember the infamous case of the bulgarian nurses in libya who were at one point sentenced to death before being finally released after much pleading from this house and the french president’s wife. we have a duty to do all we can to protect eu citizens from ever facing a similar situation in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the european council rightly focused on the reform of europe, something which my group is dedicated to, but i first want to say something about iran. iran ought rightfully to be one of the most respected powers in the middle east. it has a long history and a talented and innovative people and we would much like to be able to work with iran in tackling some of the global issues which are most pressing at this time. recently i met with iranian representatives who suggested what some of these issues might be. but sadly iran is in the hands of those who seem to care little about the aspirations of their own peoples or the concerns of their neighbours in the gulf. it has recklessly pursued a nuclear energy programme that has rightly provoked suspicion and alarm. if it were to develop nuclear energy in an open and transparent manner, no-one should question its right to do so. but by trying to develop these nuclear capabilities in secret, there can be little doubt that their motives and ambitions are a danger. so we welcome the steps the leaders of the european union have taken to increase pressure on them to cooperate with the global community. if not, measures to restrict trade, banking, transport and the oil and gas industry will sadly have to be taken. we also welcome the agreement on europe 2020, which we hope will merit its description as a centrepiece initiative of the commission. there is still much work to be done in practice and we do not yet agree with every detail. but if words can be turned into action, this will be a positive development for the european union: a single market to be re-launched and extended; trade both within the eu and beyond must be encouraged and facilitated; unnecessary and bureaucratic barriers must be swept away; the burdens on our businesses and entrepreneurs must be reduced; heavy-handed regulation must be replaced by smart regulation or indeed simply less regulation. for the sake of both the euro and the economic future of all members of the european union, budget deficits in all our countries of course have to be reduced. in the united kingdom we have now joined others who are taking these painful but necessary steps. our emergency budget yesterday was dramatic, but as the chancellor mr osborne said, unavoidable. only by reducing the weight of public debt and securing long-term low interest rates will the private sector be able to invest and expand, creating jobs and generating growth. it is the private sector which can best restore that growth and prosperity. we welcome the fact that the european council focused on immediate practical steps to support the euro. my own country is not of course a member of the euro zone and will not join. but we have every reason to want it to be successful. but the ecr believes the measures necessary to improve the governance of the euro do not require further centralisation and we would oppose measures to shift more power from the member states to brussels. nor could we support steps that would force non-euro zone members to support financially the euro zone, as it is of course primarily the responsibility of the euro zone members to support their system. but we stand ready to support initiatives which respect the treaty obligations of our respective member states. mr president, we live in an increasingly competitive era. the period of the economic pre-eminence of europe and the united states is clearly drawing to a close. our system of free market economics, liberal democracy and social protection for the most vulnerable faces challenges from others who espouse a more authoritarian brand of capitalism. we therefore urgently need reform to ensure we can continue to enjoy and develop our ‘free’ form of life. trying to escape this need by blindly clinging to a status quo would certainly end in our ruin.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr van rompuy for his speech. i think it gave us a great insight as to why so much is failing inside the european union today. mr van rompuy, you said the summit had happened, that the euro crisis had gone away, that we had stepped back from the edge of the precipice, and then you gave us the gem, the quote of the day. you said that the euro had been a victim of its own success. well at least that will bring a smile to the faces of millions of people tonight when they see the news. you must be indeed a modern day walter mitty, a dreamer! you have been warned from the start that there were several countries that would not fit into the euro zone. you knew they cheated and lied and they bent the rules and yet you carried on with this political project, like icarus, heading towards the danger despite the fact that you had been warned that things would not work. and i really was amazed last week when you admitted to me face to face that there is no plan b, there is no contingency plan to help countries like greece and spain and portugal, which at some point will have to leave this currency, there is no plan to help them refloat their own national currencies. just how much do these countries have to suffer in the pursuit of this euro dream? just how much unemployment does there have to be? what level of civil disorder is acceptable to hold together a currency that simply cannot work? and i wonder for how much longer will the germans go on paying the enormous bill? the extraordinary thing is that you and everybody in this room thinks you are doing this to be good europeans. well i would put it to you that this place has nothing to do with europe at all – that there is no such thing as a european identity. indeed the strength of europe is its diversity of language, of culture and of states. ironically it is us – the eu sceptics – who will turn out to be the good europeans. (applause from the right)
mr president, the eu’s strategy for jobs sounds good, but the reality behind the scenes is very different. to take just one shocking example, the forthcoming trade agreement between the eu and india will have a devastating impact on indian agriculture and pharmaceuticals. indians are rightly worried by this threat to their prosperity and independence. but with the indians giving up so much, we need to ask what is in it for indian big business and what is it going to cost workers in britain and europe. the answer is mode 4 immigration, which bypasses any national caps on immigration. transnational corporations will gain the automatic right to bring in indian labour to replace, for example, skilled british workers in steel and car plants and all the other industries now owned by indian-based tncs. the india-eu trade agreement will devastate the wages and employment prospects of hundreds of thousands of british and european workers. this is not a strategy for jobs but a naked sell-out to corporate greed.
mr president, i have ninety seconds and it is not a great deal of time, but i want you and the house to reflect on this. i speak as the rapporteur on the mid-term review of millennium development goals. the united nations estimates that in ninety seconds, by the time i sit down, 45 people will have died in the developing world. one death every two seconds, deaths from preventable diseases, malnutrition, from complications giving birth, from hiv- and aids-related illnesses, from tb, from malaria. a death every two seconds. that is why we must meet our millennium development goals commitments in the g20 as well as leading at the un; and that is why we must keep our commitment to continue funding those vital projects in the developing countries. i have twenty seconds left, and i would ask your indulgence in the house that we say no more until my time is up, but reflect on those 45 deaths that will have occurred in these ninety seconds. (ten seconds of silence)
mr president, if i may address president van rompuy of the european council, i am pleased to see you here and, as chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i must say i would rather like to see more of you in committee, in your task force role, because when you come up with ideas, any multilateral surveillance will come to us under codecision. the longer that we are out of the loop, the longer it is going to take us to understand and agree the decisions you make; and we have some ideas too. turning to the council conclusions, i note that they urge rapid action on the supervision package on aifm and on derivatives. they do not give prominence to the capital requirements directive (crd iii) which puts capital on the trading book. now trading book capital was shirked under pressure from banks from before the crisis, and it is what made speculative proprietary trading attractive and cost-free, an activity that was fundamental to the crisis. crd iii would automatically shrink casino banking without having to sort out bands and splits; so why is it not top billing for early action and implementation? finally, i appreciate the decision to apply bank stress tests and make them public. this is at least a year overdue and might have saved some of the current sovereign debt problem if it had been done sooner. but it is essential now that the stress tests applied cover all the challenges and concerns of the market, otherwise that would actually make matters worse.
mr president, i hope this is a fairly uncontroversial request. it is just simply to adjust the order slightly on thursday afternoon in the human rights debate so that zimbabwe comes first, then venezuela and then north korea. there is no attempt to imply any particular significance in any of those subjects. it is just that it is more convenient for a number of members to take the zimbabwe one first.
mr president, mr schulz puts me in a very difficult position: i have absolutely no idea; i am communicating this request on behalf of a colleague, mr van orden, who has been delayed, and somebody asked me if i would raise it beforehand. (laughter and applause)as always the best policy is to be honest with mr schulz!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, what we have before us today are the final two pieces of the passenger rights jigsaw covering maritime and bus and coach dossiers. i thank our rapporteurs for their work and welcome the apparent agreement reached with council in regards to maritime transport. however, the failure as yet to agree a formula on bus and coach travel is disappointing, but we will carry on trying in the intermediate period to have an agreement. it is on this area that i wish to concentrate today. clearly it would be nonsensical and unfair to have passenger rights in other modes of transport but not buses and coaches. therefore an agreement or deal which does not include buses and coaches is a pretty worthless and incomplete deal. we cannot accept the exclusion of the vast majority of bus and coach services from the scope of this regulation. we cannot accept the weakening of the rights of people with reduced mobility also in this regulation. and we cannot accept that this mode of transport is any different to any other. our rapporteur has done a good job in trying to find a compromise in this area. the council have done nothing to facilitate any agreement and, as usual, have spent most of that time dragging their feet. it is interesting that, when passenger rights are on the agenda, the council gets very negative and it is left to parliament to carry the banner for passengers. parliament has a good record in defending passenger rights, despite being faced by abuse by a certain airline chief and numerous moans and groans from transport operators. at the end of the day, parliament will not tolerate abuse of passengers by operators; it will not tolerate discrimination; it will not tolerate certain sectors being left out. we need to support our rapporteurs so that we can go into battle with council through conciliation with a very strong hand.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am limiting my remarks to the report dealing with bus and coach passengers. we know that passenger rights is a very important subject and one in which this house has taken a great interest. the proposals before us contain a number of welcome initiatives for bus and coach passengers, especially for the disabled. but, as always with this type of report, we see a ‘one size fits all’ approach, in that what works for aviation and the rail sector is applied to a wholly different structure. some examples of this problem include how to inform passengers of their rights, and also liability levels which, in parliament’s view, could mean companies having to pay the costs, for example, of funerals before any liability has been determined. such proposals will certainly increase the cost to the consumer. there is also the question, which has been referred to, of exempting purely local services, which i personally support. the very nature of bus and coach travel is very different to other sectors. businesses operating in the sector, as has been said, are mostly small and, indeed, in some cases one-man businesses. to impose prescriptive and costly obligations on these businesses will do nothing but force prices up or restrict the number of routes on which people can travel as it becomes uneconomic to maintain these services. parliament’s position here is not proportionate, and in taking this position we are likely to send this proposal into long conciliation, delaying the process not only of giving bus and coach passengers the rights they deserve, but also businesses the safeguards they need.
in writing. – this proposal is good news for travellers with disabilities or limited mobility, who deserve to be treated fairly by transport operators. as things stand, we know that from 2012 any disabled boat passenger will have improved rights, including a guarantee of the right to board and free assistance in the port. i am very hopeful that we will be able to get bus and coach passengers included in a balanced agreement that will be good for passengers and operators. this is a very welcome step towards addressing practical impediments faced by disabled passengers. it would be astonishing if the member states tried to block our call for bus and coach passengers with disabilities to be covered by this legislation. i remain confident that we can agree on one overarching piece of legislation to cover all boat, bus and coach passengers to come into force in 2012.
the next item is the report by mathieu grosch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on a sustainable future for transport (2009/2096(ini)) (a7-0189/2010).
the next item is the catch-the-eye procedure. i have 12 people who have applied for the floor. strictly speaking we should have only five in a debate but, because of the interest in this topic, we will try to take everybody for one minute each, please.
mr president, i would like to bring to this house’s attention a riddle which seems to be confusing meps from my own region in the north-west of england. in november 2009, cumbria, which is in the northern part of my constituency, was hit by serious flooding. homes were destroyed, businesses were ruined and sadly, a life was lost. as a result of the disaster, the british government had every right to apply for the eu solidarity fund for assistance, and i am led to believe that the money which could have come in aid could have been up to gbp 100 million. bizarrely, however, the british government failed to apply. the people of cumbria are honest folk. they work hard and they pay their taxes and a good portion of that is sent out to brussels. therefore i believe that they have the right to ask for some of their money back, and i consider it a failure of the labour government that it failed to act on this issue.
mr president, i too would like to give my congratulations to mr fernandes. having read this report, we find it a comprehensive run-through of all of the issues associated with bio-waste: landfill, the loss of an energy resource and the need for quality control on compost. they are all covered. so it is with great regret that i have to say that i do have an argument with one part of it. the rapporteur lost my support on the point where he talks about a mandatory – that means compulsory – separate collection regime across europe. i object to this in principle on the grounds of subsidiarity and i object most particularly on the grounds that it seeks to lock in a method that in many places is being superseded by high-tech autoclave and other technology. in other words, it is becoming outmoded before we have even set it up, and this really puts eu regulation in its worst possible light. i object to the knee-jerk reaction to call for more regulation rather than create incentives and i urge the commission to maintain its position and oppose the call for compulsion.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this presidency took office at a critical time with much at stake. as the first rotating presidency which would also chair the european council and the general affairs council, it could have given shape to a new kind of presidency, developing constructive relationships with the president and the high representative. in the ongoing work of the council and the preparations for the european council, it could have had a vital role to play in driving forward a modern and progressive european reform agenda, and in facing the crises in the economy and public debt and in the eurozone the european union was owed a positive force for action. instead, sadly, too often this presidency has appeared more interested in sound bites than substance. it proposed a transatlantic summit which it could not deliver, while simultaneously pursuing a policy on cuba which has destabilised the atlantic relationship and contributes nothing to liberating the imprisoned people of that important island. it had sought a summit of the mediterranean union, but this was cancelled. in foreign policy it seems their only consistent objective has been to try to undermine the high representative by criticising her, for example, for not attending meetings and yet, to be frank, given the presidency record in arranging summits, i can quite understand her reluctance in putting their meetings into her diary. turning to the economy, the spanish presidency has been virtually invisible. making the banks’ stress tests public is clearly a significant step, but let us not pretend that it amounts to a complete strategy for recovery. it is hard not to avoid the impression that the main objective of the presidency during the eurozone crisis has been to hide away, but with a budget deficit of over 11% perhaps they felt good reason to avoid international scrutiny. with a large deficit and a timid reform plan for their own economy at home, they were in no position to offer europe leadership or to set an example, and so the historic opportunity from being the first presidency following the lisbon treaty has been lost. spain is a key member of the european union, with its proud heritage and vibrant modern democracy. it has so much to offer, and in this house we have many distinguished spanish representatives. yet this uninspired, lacklustre presidency has let down the council, has let down the european union and, i very much regret to say, has let down spain as well.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i should like to address mr zapatero. you have exercised the eu rotating presidency in the same way you govern your country, spain – that is with your back to your citizens. today i am coming back here to remind you of the infamous spanish land-grab, a matter which i first brought to your attention in january. you have done nothing to resolve the madness affecting hundreds of thousands of people across spain who face confiscation and demolition of their houses. a few days ago the head of the planning inspectorate in andalusia acknowledged that in that region alone 300 000 houses are affected. this is not the handful of british citizens that some want us to believe. the suggested solution is that the owners can have their houses legalised for a fee. they have already paid, mr zapatero. my constituents regularly ask who is running spain. mr westerdale writes that he fears he is facing a situation similar to that experienced by british subjects at the hands of president mugabe in zimbabwe and wonders why he is receiving this treatment in a friendly european country. this is why he feels that the european union is not capable of protecting british citizens. ¿se da cuenta, señor rodríguez zapatero, de que esta situación que se está produciendo es una violación de derechos humanos, amén de ser componente importante de la crisis que vive españa? ¿espera usted que esta unión europea venga al rescate de un país donde esta violación continúa produciéndose sin que el gobierno central se decida a intervenir? for my part, you can be sure i will continue to fight in defence of all the people – the british, the spanish and all europeans – who are suffering this injustice.
mr president, prime minister zapatero has had some difficult issues during spain’s presidency, and these are testing times for europe, but i am pleased that he also kept focus on other pieces of legislation which are important to citizens – a breakthrough on cross-border health, agreement on organ donation and political agreement on pharmacovigilance. i would like to commend the work of the spanish civil servants who worked with me as rapporteur on that dossier. they were extremely professional and really have delivered a very good piece of legislation with the european parliament. this week we are also going to vote on illegal logging and industrial emissions. it is a solid record of achievement. on the spanish property issues, prime minister, you have seen today people who want to make political capital out of the real problems of ordinary people who fear for their life savings. we have had discussions with you and your government and officials on this issue and i hope that you will listen to this – as i know you will – because we know you care about citizens; we therefore look forward to more constructive talks. thank you for your work on the environment and health, and we look forward to working with you in the future.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr zapatero on the many successes he has had during the spanish presidency. earlier we heard criticism about issues relating to spanish property. it is true that this affects many thousands of spanish citizens and ordinary people who have chosen to make spain their home. it is easy to shout from the sidelines in order to capture headlines, but if we are serious about resolving this problem, we need constructive engagement. that is what we, in the british labour delegation, want to do. i am pleased that my colleague, michael cashman, and i recently had a meeting with our spanish colleagues in the european parliament in the hope of setting up a commission in spain to examine those cases in which people have purchased property in good faith and used the legal system appropriately. this would be a great step forward for the many people who are suffering as a result of these issues. we hope it will have your full support and we look forward to working with you on this in the future.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in the context of our group’s rejection of the interim tftp agreement, we welcome the decision by the spanish presidency and the us to reopen negotiations to take on board key data-protection safeguards for all eu citizens. today our group can support the alvaro report, not because it represents the perfect agreement, but because it contains the key protections we would all expect to see in an international data-sharing deal of this importance – as mr strasser said, in this milestone event. it signals the parliament’s ability, post-lisbon, to represent the interests of all eu citizens in its dealings with the council, commission and third countries. it is a new start, as mrs malmström said. on the central point, the transfer of bulk data of eu citizens, we have successfully brokered the so-called twin-track approach, combining strict safeguards, such as the eu appointment of eu staff in the us treasury, with a concrete timetable leading the way to a european solution for the extraction of data on eu soil. this agreement is about the serious balance between fighting terrorism and protecting the freedoms of our citizens. tomorrow in my constituency of london, we celebrate the anniversary of the 7/7 bombing. we all know what this agreement is about, but balance is critical. in any negotiation there must be give and take, but my group believes that eu citizens can feel that their parliament, working with an effective presidency, secured many of the safeguards they expect and an agreement which would infinitely outstrip the negative potential of 27 bilateral agreements. bilateral agreements may not contain elements such as judicial redress on a non-discriminatory basis, rectification and erasure and a prohibition on data mining and profiling. better an eu deal with real safeguards than bilateral agreements with unknown consequences. for all of these reasons, our group will support this renegotiated deal and proudly stand by the safeguards we have helped to secure with the rapporteur and all of the other groups on behalf of eu citizens and their freedoms.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank alexander alvaro and his predecessor, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, as well as the us authorities and in particular the american ambassador, mr kennard, for their hard work, perseverance and determination to produce another agreement and maintain a positive relationship between the eu and the us. we should congratulate the us in their sustained belief that progress was possible here, and for once again continuing down the route to an eu-us international agreement. i believe that this time we are all here with a lot more goodwill and cohesion following six months of mostly successful but testing negotiations. parliament has had to push hard to be heard and for its voice to be respected. what we are finally being presented with is an agreement which is not only new, but improved; one which we can live with, and one which we should be happy about, especially with vital lessons having been learned within our parliament and within the eu institutions. the deal is good compared with last time, including, as it does now, a judicial review, eu oversight, review procedures and blocking mechanisms. it represents for us the future possibility of our own eu tftp system. it is certainly more equal, more open and more democratic. for those members who have remaining concerns, it is not perfect, but may i remind this house that we do not live in a perfect world. indeed, we live in a world full of dangers, as claude moraes highlighted a moment ago in relation to london. that is exactly why this agreement is needed. it is why we do not just have a duty to protect the data and the rights of our citizens, but also to protect their ongoing security and their safety. last night in committee this agreement was overwhelmingly adopted. it was a victory for common sense and i hope the same result can be echoed within this house when we vote together. now is the time to put aside our individual ideals and be practical for the sake of the people we represent. now is the time for the reputation of the eu as a serious international body to be renewed. now is the time for us to behave reasonably and responsibly. now is the time for this house to vote in favour of the text, which my group will certainly do.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this agreement is proposed under the lisbon treaty and therefore lacks all democratic legitimacy. the peoples of europe were systematically denied referenda on the lisbon treaty because the europhile political elite knew that they would reject it. this is a problem that will come back to haunt us continually in the years to come. you have created an illegal state and now you are making illegal laws! look at the way that this was done. those few meps who were given access to this secret report, or secret agreement, were only allowed to see it after signing a declaration of honour not to reveal its contents. most importantly, the people of europe, to whom the information actually belongs, are totally unaware of its contents. more specifically, the proposed legislation is illegal under existing uk data protection law governing the international transfer of private citizens’ personal details. under the act such information cannot be shared without the consent of the individuals concerned. the us authorities have already shown that they simply help themselves to such data as and when they feel fit. the usa cannot be trusted to observe other nations’ rights. the confidential and private financial data in question belongs to the individual – and not to the european union or the european parliament. they have no right to share it with the usa or anybody else. britain’s representative on the council appears to have overridden existing national law in order to reach this agreement. by what right? however, we all know that the totally undemocratic and illegitimate eu legislation takes precedence over national democratic law! terrorism has to be opposed, but it must not be used as a cloak to remove citizens’ rights and protections. this is just the latest example of how the eu is creating an undemocratic, illegitimate political state. the uk independence party will vote against.
mr president, the so-called safeguard in the new draft agreement is an element of eu control over the extraction in the united states of transferred bulk data. even if this control were to be exercised in good faith, i do not believe that the individuals would have the confidence to refuse requests from the united states for extraction if they were said, quite untruthfully, to combat terrorism. however, us foreign policy is much wider than opposition to terrorism and it is quite probable that the united states would seek to gain access to financial data that would be used against its wider political opponents, and not just real terrorists. however, my opposition to this treaty is not limited to its content. the responsibility for treaties affecting sensitive confidential information belongs properly to sovereign states and not to supranational bodies like the eu.
mr president, as chair of the delegation for relations with india, i wonder if i might draw the house’s attention to the fact that we have a group of visitors from the lok sabha, the indian parliament, in our gallery today. i am sure the house would wish to join in welcoming them. (applause)
mr president, it has become a journalistic cliché to talk about the events in greece as a tragedy, but i think we can fairly define them as a tragedy in the classic sophoclean sense. we had the hubris of the boom years when we pretended that greek and german debt were interchangeable. now we have the nemesis of the overdue market correction. but the catharsis has been artificially stayed. rather than allowing a natural market correction, which is to say greece minting its own currency and pricing itself back into the european markets, we are instead pursuing this policy of pretending that better statistics or more regional aid or more shifting around of money through sales taxes or european debt agencies will somehow postpone the inevitable. in fact, what we are doing is condemning the people of greece and – i hope i am wrong – possibly the people of the other mediterranean countries to years of recession, stagnation and unemployment – but we are at least generating employment for ourselves because we are justifying our own existence. thus we see the true purpose of the european union, namely, the employment of its own employees.
mr president, when one looks back at the quality of statistical data for some member states – when it was quite clear that they were cooking the books and did not provide an accurate reflection of the state of the national economy – i can understand the call for better statistical data. i think we can all understand that there should be better data collection as regards the state of our national economies. but the issue is that this should not be used as an excuse for what has been called ‘european economic governance’. it should not be used as an excuse for the eu institutions, the commission, to have access to the national budgets of member states before these national budgets are presented to the parliaments of those countries. let us not use the crisis and the mistakes made during that crisis as an excuse for more european economic governance. we should use it to learn the lessons of the crisis, make sure we collect better data, but make sure we all put our own houses in order.
mr. president, how nice of you. and what a pleasure to see you in the chair. mr president, which are the richest countries in europe, or rather, the countries with the wealthiest citizens in europe? i was looking at the oecd data the other day and in 2008, which is the latest year for which we have figures, the countries that are most prosperous are the members of the european free trade association despite everything they have been through! despite a banking crisis that disproportionately impacted switzerland and iceland, income per head in the eea countries is 214% of what it is in the european union. these guys in efta are twice as rich as the citizens of the eu member states! why is that? let me suggest that it might have something to do with the deal that they have struck with the european union, whereby they are in the free market, in the four freedoms free movement of goods and services and people and capital but they are outside the common fisheries policy and outside the common agricultural policy, they control their own borders and determine who can cross them, they settle their own human rights issues, they control their own energy reserves and they can buy and sell to third countries without being subject to the common external tariff. could not our country, the united kingdom, achieve something at least as good as what seven million swiss and four million norwegians have achieved? we are a nation of 60 million, a trading, enterprising nation, a nation whose colonising energies have touched every continent. surely we could do just as well running our own affairs in our own interest?
mr president, whenever we talk about the economic and financial crisis it is important that we look back and learn the lessons from that crisis. have we learned the lesson that it was inappropriate regulation in the united states that forced banks to lend to uncreditworthy customers, thereby leading inevitably to the subprime crisis when one in ten of those taking out loans were uncreditworthy customers who could not pay back those loans and we felt the effects across the world? have we learned the lesson of those governments that print money as if money has no value, but forget the lessons of what was said by the austrian economist, ludwig von mises, the only economist to have predicted the financial crisis? he said that money has a value and when you make money cheap, companies and individuals make what he calls ‘malinvestments’ and that creates a credit bubble and eventually the market catches up and the whole thing collapses. that is what we did, that is how the financial crisis started and let us make sure we learn those lessons.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly welcome this report, which paves the way towards welcoming iceland into the eu.
in writing. − it is so important that we use collective action across the eu to combat the global economic crisis which we are facing. i fully welcome this report.
in writing. − i supported this resolution as eu regional funds are vital in helping those areas worst affected by the current economic crisis. flexible access to these funds is necessary if regions are to benefit from investment in infrastructure and support for small businesses. i agree fully with the importance of improving aid to ‘objective 2’ regions; much progress has been made in these regions in recent years and we need to ensure that the present crisis does not hamper further advancements in these poor areas. implementation of cohesion policy programmes should be sped up in order to help these regions at this time. it is also important to ensure that ‘competitiveness’ remains post-2013 and is not removed from the area of regional policy.
in writing. − greater rights for bus and coach passengers are strongly required, and this second reading of the draft regulation reinstates some greatly needed provisions for the liability of carriers, for the rights of passengers in instances of delay or cancellation, and in particular for the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. at a time when we should be promoting public transport as an efficient and environmentally friendly option, these new provisions for passengers would afford them the corresponding rights they deserve.
in writing. − the new rights afforded to passengers on boats and ships are to be welcomed. many areas of scotland are dependent on passenger ferries for their survival and it is correct that people living in these communities are given strong consumer protection. the eu-wide nature of this legislation will also afford protection to my constituents travelling abroad, as well as to the many thousands of people from across the world who come to enjoy the splendour of scotland’s highlands and islands.
in writing. − i fully support the decision to give ferry and boat passengers compensation when facing delays or cancellations. as is the case with the airline industry, passengers deserve to be protected against disruption. access to services should be a priority, and i am pleased to see that the rights of disabled passengers are being taken into account in this regulation – disability should not be a reason for denying passengers the right to board. i hope that further steps will be taken in the near future to come to an agreement on bus passenger rights to ensure protection for people travelling in europe.
in writing. − parliament today has sent out a strong message that europe must move towards more sustainable transport. my own country, scotland, has some of the most ambitious climate change legislation in the world and the scottish government is active in promoting sustainable transport initiatives including support for cycling and walking, low carbon vehicles and alternative fuels. today’s vote calls for more joined-up thinking across the whole of europe.
in writing. − my colleague ms turunen's report makes the important call for member states to support more and better apprenticeship schemes. apprenticeships offer a vital entry for young people into the world of employment which will in turn help us get the economy going again. the scottish government last year set a target of securing 18 500 apprenticeships in the year; by march that target had been exceeded and some 20 000 positions had been secured. it is essential that this good work is built upon and governments around the eu must strive to create more opportunities for our younger generation.
in writing. − this is a hugely important report, encouraging member states to give particular attention to youth employment. the financial crisis has had a significant effect on youth unemployment, which is now as high as 40% in some member states. identifying the barriers which young people face – such as earning a living wage and having access to childcare for young parents – is crucial in helping them back into work. i support the parliament’s calls for a european youth guarantee to provide training, apprenticeships and jobs for europe's young people, and recognising the long-term effects on society of high youth unemployment.
in writing. − the widespread support that this house has given to the fernandes report is a welcome sign. it shows that this house is united in taking this issue seriously and sends a clear message to the other institutions as well as to the member states. the scottish government only last month published a zero waste plan which deals with many of the issues discussed in the commission’s green paper. action must be taken at the eu level and today’s vote should ensure that progress is made.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we worry that president barroso and commissioner rehn’s proposals lack balance. fiscal stability cannot exist in isolation from strong economic growth and high levels of employment. current and further planned austerity measures will lead to a sustained period of low growth, increasing unemployment and further social exclusion. president barroso, i know that you do not believe that millions more unemployed and more social exclusion are an acceptable price to pay for rapid fiscal consolidation, but that seems to be the path you are treading. in your proposals of last week, i think you are missing the point. there is a need for a qualitative leap in european economic policy and in its governance, but that should lead to a balanced policy agenda combining fiscal responsibility with economic effectiveness and social fairness. you have left out several highly relevant options that would really mean a qualitative leap in this field. real economic policy coordination should provide for a more differentiated consolidation plan for europe, instead of the short-sighted ‘one size fits all’ austerity agenda that makes no economic sense. second, you must come forward with an economic policy agenda for jobs and fiscal consolidation. today we only have an agenda for cutting deficits at the expense of jobs. third, we need strong proposals on how to safeguard proper public financing for the recently agreed europe 2020 strategy, including new tax revenues from financial transaction taxes and other sources. we also urgently need operational proposals from you, the commission, on how to shift the tax burden away from labour as rapidly as possible. taxation on labour is far too high in a number of member states. last but not least, you have stopped short of positive incentives, rather than negative sanctions, in a renewed stability and growth pact, although that could be a very promising path to tread. i hope you will reconsider and come forward with a more balanced set of proposals in the autumn.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, economic governance, supervisory architecture, cross-border crisis-management tools: these are all very important areas post financial crisis. for all these areas we need to ensure that a strong and resilient structure is put in place as soon as possible in order to ensure that we can deliver a common set of rules, whether for member states accounts and their behaviour in economic governance, or for our financial services reform. we need to arrive at consensus. the outcome needs to be fully implemented by all 27 member states and be fully complied with. any new institutions need to be apolitical, and recruitment of staff should be based, above all else, on merit and ability to do the task at hand. we need to send a clear signal that these new procedures and supervisory authorities, especially the proposed european systemic risk board, are necessary and can work for the benefit of our constituents and our collective economies. the recent financial and economic crisis has necessitated bold measures. in europe we have identified areas in which regulatory gaps can be bridged and will hopefully also improve the transparency of our markets and financial services as a whole. the recent agreement on the us finance bill has been hailed by many as putting the us regulatory reform ahead of the eu. i do not agree with this conclusion. if we can find agreement on the supervisory architecture over the coming days and weeks, we will have a robust eu framework centred on a new european systemic risk board and the three lamfalussy committees transformed into european authorities. once this framework has been established, it should aid the safety of the financial system and may even prove to be a vehicle to improve the functioning of the single market in financial services. in following this agenda, we do, however, need to ensure that any new authorities established work effectively with national supervisory bodies and that at all times these discussions and negotiations strive for the best structure, the best supervision and the best outcome, rather than whether it is ‘more’ or ‘less europe’. i commend the commission’s focus in addressing the key issues of concern and believe that although by very different methods we will soon end up with a global financial system which is safer and better serves our economy.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, commissioners – the three amigos if i may call you such – last session, mr president, you had to scamper away. i think you had an urgent appointment. you missed my words of wisdom and i am glad to see that you are here to receive them today because i feel i have some wisdom to offer. you are in such a pickle actually, are you not? one could almost feel sorry for you but of course, you know, you bring some of this on yourselves. the common currency experiment – which is an experiment that was doomed to failure; i remember lecturing at cambridge university back in the 1990s, explaining why it was deeply flawed and could not work and i gave it about 10 years and i am afraid it looks as though i was right – was flawed even by your own rule book. what in fact happened when you introduced it was that you actually tore up your own rule book. you threw it away! you welcomed every fiscal dysfunctional economy into the eurozone, including greece – which was going to hasten the demise of the eurozone, and it thus comes as no surprise. i am not a johnny-come-lately to the demise of the euro. it was always written in the runes, as it were. to suggest now that we have only just found out that greece was broke is intellectually dishonest. i was in the city at the time and we were buying greek bonds at 10% coupons, they fell to five and it was a one-way bet – a bit like having the winner of the horse before the race had even started! our commercial banks have got themselves into a terrible problem because they buy junk debt. they redistributed junk debt repackaged at triple a ratings. what are our central banks doing now? the very same thing. they are buying in the secondary market and buying junk bonds, repackaging them as triple a. this is just how we got into this pickle to start with. if you want to get out of this mess, you need to get rid of the political-establishment support for commercial banks and get rid of central banks, which are actually part of the problem, not the solution.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to focus on the eiopa report, which is about the insurance and occupational pensions authority. as most of you are aware, insurance and occupational pensions are two subjects very close to my heart, indeed probably the subjects in which i have been most interested in the econ committee. solvency ii, which parliament voted on last year and on which i was the rapporteur, is the piece of legislation that in fact i am most proud of to date. it remains the most comprehensive piece of sectoral financial services legislation voted on in this parliament. i expect it to reduce both consumer costs and systemic risks posed by the insurance sector, such as they are. a large part of solvency ii is devoted to overcoming the challenges facing supervisors and supervisory colleges in managing the risks and complexities associated with large cross-border insurers. as such, solvency ii is intimately linked with the proposals for eiopa. eiopa, in my opinion, provides the oil that will allow solvency ii to operate more effectively. it is perhaps because of my experience with solvency ii that i was keen to take on this report. i knew that it was the context in which we could make solvency ii really work. it has also meant that in the econ debate i was unable to support some aspects of the more ambitious plans of some of my fellow supervision rapporteurs in the areas they have described that i could initially support, such as day-to-day supervision of financial institutions or resolution funds up by january 2011. this may or may not be appropriate for banks or capital markets, but for insurance the debate is really open. insurance is not banking and i am glad that my fellow rapporteurs have accepted that. the concerns i have raised are now recognised by many as legitimate and all parties no longer believe that there is a dispute. direct supervision and resolution fund projects are for those for the coming years and the rapporteurs are, i believe, converged in their belief on this point. the objective of the commission is that the three sectoral isas should in fact be the same in terms of composition. the sectoral legislation, principally in this respect solvency ii and iorp, will define what specific powers eiopa will have. thus the rapporteurs have worked on the basis that what goes into one isa at this stage must be read across to the other two, and it is because of my concerns at the outset that some of the ambitions behind this were perhaps not as directly appropriate for insurance and pensions that we have – if you like – the nuances which we can read into the eiopa. they will not be different but they will be balanced. they are not necessarily the headline-grabbing areas but i believe we can rely upon something which will work – and work just as well across the board as if it were any of the other sectors. one of my key objectives was to ensure that there was a counterbalance from the micro cross-sectoral level to the one which is operated by central bankers in the esrb. whilst i accept mr tremosa’s point about central banks, it is also important that we have this balance in the micro-supervisory field as well. that is why i am so pleased about the joint committee – which we have been able to reveal and to push forward, where we can see that this balance will be held – and that my joint rapporteurs have accepted this point as have, i believe, also the council and the commission. this is a real gain for parliament. i also believe that having, of the three isas, one of the revolving chairs as a vice-president of the esrb is quite essential also for a plurality of the views which have to be heard from the coalface. we have to take into account that eiopa will be reflecting two connected, but different, sectors so we must have the stakeholder groups involved too reflecting both those sectors. as i have stated, the isas come from sectoral legislation and for insurance i believe that solvency ii and eiopa are an excellent marriage. for pensions, the question is up in the air. a lot will now depend upon the commission’s report on the iorp, and i hope to work closely on this, but i believe that there is a deal here for us to make, a deal which we will make in the forthcoming days – perhaps weeks – which will benefit greatly eiopa and the role parliament has played in defining its powers, which i believe will serve consumers, and of course the authorities around europe, well.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − madam president, all has clearly not been well with financial regulation in many of our member states. we cannot simply allow things to carry on in this dysfunctional and incoherent manner. in the uk the new government has taken radical action to overhaul and provide the necessary reform at a national level. equally, the new european framework must radically improve both quality and coherence of regulatory supervision. it needs an independent structure – truly independent in a regulatory sense – but there is a balance to be struck. the current proposals would allow the eu to overrule national regulators, and the danger is that technical standards may be used to actually make and dictate policy choices at an eu level. our member states are right to resist such a move. the uk and germany are right to adopt the positions that they have. commissioner rehn, commissioner barnier, the uk remains committed to delivery, but proper recognition of subsidiarity principles is required.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, despite good things in solvency ii, which we have already heard about, we shelved the group support regime due to concerns over its practicality in periods of economic stress, its interplay with national insolvency laws and mistrust of other countries’ supervisors. crisis examples, such as fortis bank, exposed grounds for such suspicion and the need for a european supervisory architecture and discipline. solvency ii convinced me that cross-border insolvency and near-insolvency in financial institutions have to be tackled at the european level. this is challenging but it is a serious omission from the whole concept of the single market. the ferreira report covers many of these issues, and i thank her for including my ideas on averting moral hazard from crisis funds and a 28th regime for insolvency of cross-border banks. now, planning is everything, and contingency plans, living wills and resolution mechanisms will reveal a lot about the present as well as protecting the future.
madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs very seriously for their enormously hard work, and the commissioner, the members of the parliament and the presidency who were still patiently negotiating at nearly midnight last night. we all agree that the esrb and the isas will allow for a completely new and necessary approach to the management of financial risk across europe; it is good but it is not easy. the package is five different directives which themselves amend or affect 11 more, and there are significant changes to the ways national regulators, central banks and ministers will interact. i am extremely pleased to see how close we are to a final agreement. of the 67 articles in the isas i can already see agreement on 64, and, of the three that remain, most of the sub-clauses are agreed. we should all, and the rapporteurs themselves, be very proud. please, next week, keep an open dialogue during the negotiations at ecofin. we need to get these authorities established, ensure that they have high-quality staff and, if necessary, add to powers later.
rapporteur. − madam president, bill shankly, a famous liverpool football manager was once asked by columnists whether he thought football was a matter of life and death. he replied ‘no, it’s much more serious than that’. i think that the passion which he showed then is also being shown by many of the rapporteurs and the shadows in this particular field. i would like to thank everybody who has participated in this. we have converged from different directions but we have come out with a strong parliament voice. i think it is convincing – here we stand united – being able to convince many that this is right and appropriate at the european level of discussion. the white paper on the insurance guarantee scheme which you mentioned, mr commissioner, is in fact very important for us, and we look forward to that. alongside the issues of binding mediation it carries us towards what sharon bowles was referring to in terms of the issue of group support – something which was left out of solvency ii. indeed in terms of supervision, on a scale of things, i think we can be rightly proud that what we have is still a very ambitious project, something that i believe will lead to the right actions at european level in the future. we should be proud. on an international level we should be proud too. i would agree with you, mr commissioner, that in comparison with the united states we can speak positively about what we have done in our backyard on structural reform that the united states has failed to achieve, even in its most recent finance bill, especially in insurance, and that we can take this to washington when we need to. however, i do not necessarily agree with you on international financial accounting. you will not be surprised to hear that. i do not agree with using historical trends. nevertheless, on supervision, the rapporteurs deserve a pat on the back. we have far to go and i think it is close, but it is like a game of football after all. we have gone through full time, we are now in extra time. let us hope it does not have to go to a penalty shoot-out.
author. − mr president, in so many matters nowadays the expression ‘the devil is in the detail’ is quoted. at times this is becoming too much of an excuse for pronouncing conclusions aimed at markets, without realising that a less than fulsome follow-up negates the conclusions, or even does more harm than good. i said this about the banks’ stress tests, where we need transparent and credible assumptions, as well as results, published. i said it earlier when it was taking too long to come up with the detail on the greek rescue, and the committee has in fact been demanding more details for months. we are the devils that look at the detail, and we want more of it. on 11 may the european stabilisation mechanism was established utilising the eu budget. it had taken so long to deliver on the earlier promises that this was not enough, so on 7 june the more general european financial stability facility was created. a bit more haste would have been useful, and perhaps cheaper. there are potential knock-on effects, as a result of these new instruments, for the eu budget and also for borrowing by other eu institutions, such as the eib. it will be damaging if, once again, there has in effect been a bailout arranged for banks holding sovereign debt, and lending to smes in the real economy is what pays the price. so what plans are there to mitigate such an effect, given that growth is so important to recovery and smes will be in the vanguard of that? concerning the special purpose vehicle itself, in the interests of eu solidarity, those countries that are not in the eurozone but wish to join the stabilisation mechanism should be able to do so. can you confirm that the rules of the spv are being changed to permit this? indeed, more generally, as was raised in committee yesterday, we would like to know more about this off-balance-sheet vehicle, member states’ accounting treatment of it and the advice for setting it up. there remain many other questions. how will the coordination between the stabilisation fund and the imf operate? will allocation be made on the 2:1 basis, reflecting the pledged amounts, and what is the relationship between the respective interest rates? will the eu and imf loans rank pari passu or will only the imf loans benefit from exclusion in any eventual restructuring of the borrowers’ obligations. is this all the right way around? should the imf be topping up an eu rescue, or should it be the other way round? is the spv active now or must first calls use the eu budget mechanism? i would now like to turn to eurobonds. there is a fundamental question to face here, that if there is a general eurobond with a common interest rate then one of the most powerful incentives for fiscal discipline – market forces – is lost. market forces are not popular right now. they were, in fact, sleeping as greece and others ratcheted up debt much earlier on, but there are reasons for that embedded in the zero-risk weight applied to sovereign debt in the capital requirements directive. had that not been there, banks would progressively have been weaned off riskier bonds and spreads would have reflected better the fiscal positions of member states and we would not be bailing banks out again via the stabilisation mechanism and, indeed, the forthcoming stress tests would be a whole lot less stressful. as part of the new economic governance, surely this has to be fixed in the longer term and i would say automatically, not as part of a politically determined excess deficit procedure that takes away the zero-risk weight. but i think that here we have the opportunity to turn what is a problem in the capital requirements directive into a useful tool in the future. since writing this oral question, i am pleased that the commission has indicated its intention to involve parliament in economic governance, surveillance procedures and forthcoming legislation, and the committee looks forward to participating wholeheartedly in that involvement.
rapporteur. − madam president, firstly i would like to put on record my thanks to those who have helped to secure the agreement we have reached on crd iii (capital requirements directive) regulating bank capital and bankers’ pay and bonuses. a very special thanks goes to my shadows in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, to the staff and also to commissioner barnier for his continued support for the committee’s proposals, and of course, not least, to the spanish presidency for their persistence and efforts in 12 hours of trialogues to mediate between parliament’s negotiating team and the 27 member states. the final law we are debating today fully implements the basel rules on capital against the trading book and resecuritisations and it robustly implements the international remuneration rules agreed at the g20. financial experts all agree that a high risk short-term bonus culture, combined with a lack of capital, were central elements in the 2008 global financial crisis. governments and taxpayers ended up bailing out the banking sector across the european union with an injection of some eur 3.9 trillion of support. in my member state, the uk, an estimated gbp 1.2 trillion of support was extended, almost equivalent to one full year of gdp. savers and investors saw the value of their pensions and investments decline as a result of the banks’ risky practices. the bankers walked away with the short-term profits from these risky practices, while the risks they took will remain on the banks’ books for years to come. the new law amending the capital requirements directive addresses these fundamental flaws and weaknesses in the banking system which led to the crisis. it will force banks to hold more capital against riskier activities on the trading book. the law also forces banks to reform their remuneration and bonus practices with rules that break the link between financial reward and excessive risk-taking. the effect of parliament’s amendments is also to ensure that those remuneration policies, first and foremost, prioritise the health and stability of a financial institution and indeed lending to the real economy. we are constantly told by the banks that they have learned the lessons of the crisis. if that is the case, why did the bank of england financial stability report state in june that the proportion of bank revenues allocated to salaries and bonuses has in fact increased since the banking crisis? the extra gbp 10 billion paid out by uk banks in salaries and bonuses represents gbp 10 billion that could have been put towards banks’ capital and as such support, as the bank of england makes clear, around gbp 50 billion of lending to small businesses and families. furthermore, the bank of england reports say that lending to small and medium-sized enterprises in the uk has actually declined in recent months and that mortgage lending is expected to contract in the next few months. so, colleagues, at a time when governments across the eu are making substantial budget cuts, scaling back public services and support to families and businesses, we cannot continue with a banking culture that prioritises bankers’ pay and perks over sustaining capital and credit for europe’s economic recovery. it is therefore imperative that these rules on bonuses apply in 2011. these rules are deferral, in line with the business cycle with annual review clawback; tough measures for bailed-out banks; a cap on the ratio of bonus to fixed salary; payment in contingent capital alongside shares; increased transparency and accountability and improved corporate governance; and, of course, coverage of bonus-like pensions so a banker responsible for the collapse of his own bank will no longer be able to walk away with a gbp 16 million pension pot. parliament has insisted on a tough interpretation of the g20 principles to ensure that the upfront cash proportion of a bonus is strictly limited. paying a large part of the bonus in cash without any deferral or assessment of actual performance leaves, the parliament believes, an unacceptable incentive for taking dangerous short-term risks. colleagues, we have a duty, as legislators, to defend the taxpayers’ interest. we have a duty to respond to the public’s concerns. our voters demand and expect banks to prioritise stability and lending over bankers’ own pay and bonuses. in the last two years, since 2008, the banks have failed to reform their structures. they have failed to do this and we are now doing the job for them in order to rebuild trust and confidence in europe’s banking system.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the reform of bank capital is europe’s most important legislative response to the crisis so far and it deserves big billing. yes, i mean up there alongside the supervisory architecture. under-capitalised trading books were a fundamental cause of the crisis, making speculative proprietary trading attractive and almost cost-free. so the three- to four-fold increase of capital required against such trading positions should be welcomed as directly addressing the root cause of the crisis and cutting down on the motive for casino banking. on remuneration, when i first suggested that big bonuses and pension lump sums could be paid in subordinated debt, many said that this could not fly. so i thank the rapporteur and my fellow shadows for supporting this idea, which we transformed into contingent capital and is already becoming part of mainstream thinking elsewhere. i regret that my specific tax-avoidance texts could not be included, but we have prohibited payment in ways designed to undermine the purpose of the directive.
rapporteur. − madam president, just very briefly, i agree with mrs mcguinness that mindset and culture have not changed. in fact, over the last week some banks and institutions have attempted to derail and undermine the proposals that we will be voting on tomorrow. it is why enforcement is vital, it is why national regulators must have the backbone to enforce this legislation and it is why tomorrow members will have to give a strong vote and a strong signal to banks and the public that we do intend to reform and, indeed, transform the discredited bonus culture in the long term. i believe, colleagues, that it is the beginning of the process, not the end. therefore, i urge colleagues to give a strong vote to this report in the plenary tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday 7 july 2010).
the next item is question time (b7-0316/2010). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question 16 by joanna senyszyn (h-0331/10) subject: european union accession to the european convention on human rights the european court of human rights (echr) has recently delivered several rulings regarding legal provisions in poland which are in breach of the european convention on human rights. hitherto, the question of how echr rulings are implemented by eu member states which are also members of the council of europe has been a matter for each individual member state. will the anticipated accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights alter this situation and, in particular, are there any plans to introduce eu mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of echr rulings by member states of the european union which are also members of the council of europe?
technically and legally i understand the commissioner’s response. politically and in terms of real commitment to fundamental rights it makes no sense and it runs completely counter to articles 6 and 7 of the treaty, which say the eu and its member states will obey the convention. indeed a mechanism was put into article 7 to try to make sure that member states do not breach human rights, so how is what the commission said compatible with the mechanism under article 7? we need a peer review system; we need monitoring mechanisms. i am afraid that answer shows why the commission is so feeble about pursuing human rights breaches in the member states.
articles 6 and 7, commissioner – what meaning do you place on articles 6 and 7 in the light of your reply and the mechanism for pursuing breaches?
well, let us hope that it does not take too long!
mr kelly, perhaps you could restate your question very briefly if you would not mind. the first part of your question was not very clear.
question 19 by bernd posselt (h-0308/10) subject: serbia-macedonia-kosovo cross-border cooperation in the commission’s view, what are the chances of cross-border cooperation and development in the southern serbia – macedonia – kosovo border region and in particular in the presevo valley, which belongs to serbia and is inhabited by albanians? how can the rule of law, investment, infrastructure and local border traffic be encouraged in the region?
question 21 by nikolaos chountis (h-0325/10) subject: full implementation by turkey of the association agreement and the additional protocol the commission's 2009 progress report on turkey states that: 'turkey has made no progress towards fully implementing the additional protocol to the association agreement ... it is now urgent that turkey fulfils its obligation to ensure full, non-discriminatory implementation of the additional protocol ....'. bearing in mind that for the fourth consecutive year turkey has failed to implement the additional protocol, how does the commission believe turkey should be persuaded fully to implement the association agreement and the additional protocol, since efforts so far have not borne fruit? has turkey made any commitment to sign the protocol in 2010?
member of the commission. − there are a number of issues which are on the table directly or indirectly in the talks to find a comprehensive solution to the cyprus issue. the role of the commission is absolutely clear on this one: not only do we support this un-led process, not only do we support both leaders in finding a solution to this issue, but we have also dispatched the president of the commission’s personal envoy to help the parties throughout these discussions with the eu-related measures. there are other elements which are probably not directly on the table in these talks but which are inter-related, interconnected. one of them has been mentioned by you. the role of the commission is to call on both parties and on other countries interested or connected to do everything to find a solution; to be creative in finding the solution and, if being creative with the aim of finding a solution means solving this problem too, then the commission will propose it. otherwise we hope very much that the issue which you have raised will be tackled and solved in the framework of the overall talks on the comprehensive settlement.
before i come to mr kelly’s supplementary, i should like to inform colleagues that we are going to finish at 20.30. the reason for this is not only is it foreseen in the agenda but also the interpreters have to have time to eat before resuming at 21.00. however, the next commissioner, mr de gucht, will start at around 20.15 and because the following questions are inadmissible – nos 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 – mr de gucht will start with question 32 by mr tarabella. concerning mr crowley’s question, we have not been notified of any replacement for mr crowley and accordingly that will not be taken, so we move to mr howitt’s question for a joint reply. mr gallagher, i am asking one of the staff to come round to talk to you. we now move back to mr kelly. it is your second and last supplementary.
mr president, i will not delay you because i understand you are pressed for time. i totally agree with what mrs mcguinness has just said. i am very angry, quite frankly, about the way this has been done. i know the rules are there to be adapted, but this is a very burning subject and the question should have been answered tonight because it would also be giving better support for the debate to be held on thursday morning.
i am advised that you are both authors of the oral question and accordingly are to be congratulated on getting it on the agenda for thursday. it will provide a much wider opportunity for debate and discussion. therefore i think we will leave it there, but thank you for the points you make, and we will try to make sure that people are advised earlier in future.
i am sorry; the problem is that we have not been notified by mr crowley, and i am told that this is the requirement. but let us see how we get on, mr gallagher. if you want to be patient and wait, we will see how we get on.
question 22 by gay mitchell (h-0329/10) subject: middle east peace despite our proximity to the middle east and efforts to coordinate a united foreign policy, the european union remains a peripheral player in efforts to move along the peace process between the israelis and palestinians. how is the commission using the european neighbourhood policy to bring positive results to bear on this situation?
our special representative, tony blair, has given the impression that israel is to lift the blockade of gaza. yet this morning we heard from john ging, the director of operations for unrwa, that in practice, although food is now being allowed in by israel, people cannot afford to buy it because nothing is being allowed in for commerce or business to create the employment and the job prospects to give them sufficient income. i think israel’s policy has been regarded by many of us as deceitful. last month parliament called for the commission and the council to stop just using words and to start applying some action. through the association agreement the commission has the power to put pressure upon israel. when are we going to see some action from the commission to ensure that the relief of gaza takes place?
i apologise to baroness ludford, who has now left the chamber. i indicated earlier that we would not get to her question, whereas in fact we can do so because at the present time the questioners to mr de gucht are not in the chamber.
i am pleased to hear that you are going to coordinate. your services will provide a lead and a link on fair trade, and i wonder how much you have been involved in the social procurement issue with commissioner barnier. we do need coordination because we found out a few weeks ago that there was wording in that text – which is coming out very soon – which would have damaged fair trade. luckily, commissioner barnier has intervened, but i think a lack of coherence was obvious from that original text, so, is it in your service as a coordinating group, do you link in with all the different services and how will this work in practice?
thank you for your brevity, commissioner. as the author is not present, question 34 lapses.
thank you, commissioner, for that answer. could you comment on whether you were aware of the leaked intelligence documents from the colombian government intelligence service das that show that there were potentially illegal intelligence activities on european soil against the belgian humanitarian organisation broederlijk delen, the fédération internationale des droits de l’homme, amnesty international in madrid and other bona fide human rights organisations, and indeed against this parliament’s subcommittee on human rights? would you agree that this is relevant and serious information that requires investigation and that it is relevant to how we deal further with the draft free trade agreement with colombia?
the high representative has described human rights as a silver thread that will run through all our external policy. can the commission tell us what assessment has been made of colombia’s likely reaction to the signing of the fta? what analysis have they carried out to prove or otherwise that this will help the human rights situation rather than hinder the human rights situation? i have heard what the commissioner said about the suspension clause. i welcome that but, before we sign such an agreement, we have to be clear that such an agreement will advance human rights and not move them backwards. i want to know if any assessment has been made.
thank you commissioner. thank you, colleagues, for your questions. the chair of the european parliament is wholly impartial and independent, but i hope holland wins! questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.30 and resumed at 21.00.)
mr president, it is my belief that neither cloned animals nor any product from a cloned animal or its offspring should be used for human consumption. the commission must give due consideration as to how to deal with the issue and in the interim period no products from a cloned animal or its offspring should be allowed into the food chain. nanotechnologies have become widely used in food processing across the world. in europe we need well-developed and researched products which we can guarantee are safe for human consumption. enforcement and regulation of both the technology and the materials is paramount, with transparency across the entire supply chain extremely important. products must be safe, tested and approved and labelled in a way that does not mislead the consumer. third-country imports must also comply with the same standards as set within the eu and all products must be tested to ensure that they are safe for... (the president cut off the speaker.)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, holger krahmer and i do not always agree about environmental legislation and the degree to which it should be enforced, but on this measure i think we have found ourselves very close despite the fact that many of the arguments he has put to his colleagues have been nationalistic. he has been able to argue that, with regard to this legislation, germany has applied it effectively, or more effectively than any other member state, including my own. this places germany at a competitive disadvantage compared to others. this is an argument that can apply to many aspects of environmental legislation. there has to be a level playing field. the legislation that we put in force has to be applied equally and effectively across the european union if we are to protect the environment, and if we are to ensure that certain countries do not gain a competitive advantage by not investing in the improvements that are necessary to make that possible. the question is that we have now recast this legislation. we have not perhaps relaxed it, but we have addressed the fact that the first measure failed to be applied by member states. member states have got off the hook. my member state, the united kingdom, has got off the hook. it has not done what germany did. so, i ask the commissioner in his response to tell us exactly – to put on the record – what is there in this new legislation that will ensure that member states actually do what they are required to do?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i hope that mr eickhout’s disappointment at the legislation we are discussing this evening is mitigated by a famous victory for the netherlands, using perhaps the best available football techniques in their game this evening. sadly, england could not be there, but never mind; we cannot have everything. moving to the subject of the debate, i would first of all like to pay tribute to the work that holger krahmer did. it was a very long, complicated piece of legislation and he genuinely worked to involve all of the political groups and all of the different shades of opinion in this debate. we have reached, in the end, what is an acceptable compromise. nobody got what they wanted – perhaps that is the mark of good european legislation but it is a bit of a messy fudge – and nobody is happy. member states are not particularly happy. certainly some members of this house are very unhappy. i hope mr eickhout’s unhappiness is mitigated later but, nevertheless, it is a good overall result. the compromises reached are, in my view, a good balance between, on the one hand, protecting the environment but, on the other, taking into account some of the quite legitimate concerns held by some member states that forcing a lot of coal plants to close early would actually be a bad thing for the environment – what would the power be replaced by? we have our long-term emissions legislation and directives to meet, which would be compromised by forcing too many plants to close early, and at the end of the day all the improvements we want to see have to be paid for by somebody. at the end of the day, that is always the consumer. we have a recession across europe and we must be careful to get the balance right between environmental protection and costly improvements.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like also to add my congratulations to satu hassi who has taken over this dossier so competently. it has been a pleasure working with her. i am very happy to have been part of the successful negotiations to secure an agreement. the agreement is strict enough to ensure real strides in the protection of forests and biodiversity, but also flexible enough not to be over-burdensome for legal and honest traders. we would do well not to underestimate the success there. it is possible to come to such agreements when we all work together. i would like to highlight one of the very welcome side effects. it follows on nicely from what jan was just saying. for me, a very welcome side effect of taking a dossier like this through parliament is the huge effect on public awareness. certainly in the uk it has widened out beyond what i might call the usual suspects, the green environmental groups, and has engaged the wider public. for me, as a very new mep, it has brought unprecedented contact with the public, all of whom are supporting parliament and, i think, are impressed that parliament has been able to move this subject in the direction in which they want to see it going. thank you very much to you all and again thank you to satu – it has been an education working with her.
mr president, it is very late now and i do not think i should distract us from the idea that this relates to one of the most important votes we will have this week in this parliament. it is important for our citizens, judging by my postbag and the number of e-mails i have received. there is an online petition, which, about four hours ago, had 125 000 signatures – and the number is going up every minute – urging us to stick with this proposal tomorrow. it is important for the climate, as everyone has mentioned, but i think, as the commissioner has said, it is most important for the millions of people who live in the world’s poorest countries and whose livelihoods are being destroyed by illegal logging. let us take madagascar, where 100 000 rosewood trees were illegally chopped down last year, each tree worth more than the average gdp in that country. no wonder illegal logging fuels criminality in madagascar. the civil war in liberia, mainly funded through illegal logging, killed 250 000 people. it fuelled the war in cambodia in the 1990s and it is the enemy of democracy. global witness calculates that 15 tonnes of timber crosses from burma to china every seven minutes, helping to prop up that despicable regime. illegal logging deprives millions of people of a better chance in life because billions of dollars are lost in tax revenues to governments. human rights watch says that usd 2 billion have been lost in tax revenues in indonesia. that is enough to provide basic heath care for 100 million people in that country and is more than the entire health budget of that country. so what we are doing today is a first step. it is not perfect, as the commissioner has admitted, but it is a lot better than where we started off with a kind of voluntary code with which we would have due diligence. i would like to thank the commissioner for going further than his predecessors. i would like to thank the spanish presidency for pushing for this agreement and i would like to thank hilary benn, the former uk secretary of state, for sticking his ground in council and pushing for a more ambitious agreement. tomorrow we will make a start. i think satu hassi and the shadows have done a very good job, but we have to maintain consumer pressure and public awareness. i hope the commission will also play a role in doing that and in getting good enforcement of this very important new law.
mr president, the world’s forests are being destroyed – sometimes with the support of governments, but often through illegal activities. the drugs trade and the timber trade are two activities that can generate such enormous amounts of money that they corrupt governments, which makes enforcement hugely difficult. five years ago, i took the case to louis michel, the commissioner at the time, and said we needed a measure like this. he was sympathetic, but his services and lawyers said it could not be done. i would say to the commissioner that there is an important piece of advice there, which is that if the lawyers say it cannot be done, then change the lawyers. it can be done, and here we have proof of it. this is excellent, this is good news and an important measure. however, this directive requires that member states introduce enforcement regimes which are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. what does that mean? what if slovenia says that the penalty for illegally importing wood will be 10 years’ imprisonment, and the united kingdom says it will be a slap on the wrist? how do you ensure that this legislation will be put into effect properly across the whole of the european union? commissioner, i would ask you to write to member states and tell them that you are going to start publishing details of the penalties they put in place to ensure that this legislation is properly enforced, and that you will name and shame in a way that has never been done before. one sees the words ‘effective, proportionate, dissuasive’ time and time again. i would like you to be the first commissioner to actually ensure that those words have proper effect.
mr president, i have a point of order. ms harm’s speech was one minute and 45 seconds over time and the gentleman over there was considerably over time as well. it is inconceivable that anyone in the efd group would be allowed more than 25 seconds over time – probably less – without the microphone being switched off. i would therefore like to request of the president that the rules of the house are applied even-handedly. (applause from the efd group)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, you could not really invent what is going on here this morning, could you? the belgian presidency takes over its six-month term and everybody pretends that it is business as usual! i was somewhat vilified a few months ago for pointing out that belgium was not really a proper nation, but the electors of belgium have rather proved the point: a separatist party is now the biggest party in belgium! we have before us a caretaker prime minister, but we all turn a blind eye and pretend that it is business as usual. it simply is not! mr leterme, you have no legitimacy here. what an extraordinary irony that a country that is on the verge of breaking into two is for the next six months telling 26 other member states what they should be doing! perhaps worse than that, of course, is your own sheer hypocrisy in this matter, in standing here this morning and being a ‘good belgian’. let us just remember that you yourself, as belgian prime minister, did not even know your own national anthem. you famously said, back in 2006, that it was only beer and football that held the country together. now, i suppose, with the trappings of power, that has all been forgotten! really, everybody in this chamber is in denial because belgium is a huge embarrassment to them. it is a prototype. it is a model for the entire european union and it is on the verge of breaking up, yet none of you can admit it! what is going on today inside this chamber frankly is beyond satire. i would not have thought there should be a belgian presidency of the union. would it not be fun if, at the end of the six-month presidency, there was still no government in belgium! i hope you are all very proud!
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the ecr group supports enlargement of the union and in principle of course we support the accession of iceland – if that is what the people of iceland themselves want. there are several reasons why iceland’s membership would be good for the eu. first, the more the eu increases its size, hopefully the looser and more flexible the union will become. second, iceland’s dependence on its fishing industry will most likely result in a favourable deal which itself may prompt long overdue reform of the common fisheries policy and pave the way for norway’s eventual accession. third, iceland has already adopted large chunks of the acquis through membership of the european economic area and the schengen zone, so absorption of iceland would not exacerbate the so-called ‘enlargement fatigue’ that has been blamed for the public’s disenchantment with the european union. no one expects wealthy icelanders to leave their underpopulated country en masse to seek work elsewhere in the european union, as might be the case, for example, if turkey were to join in the future. of course, the decision rests with the people of iceland in a referendum. in the last referendum held in iceland, voters decided against refunding british savers billions of pounds following the collapse of the icesave bank. i remain confident that iceland will recognise and honour its eea legal obligations in this regard to other most affected member states such as my own country – the united kingdom – and the netherlands.
madam president, the defining feature of the eu conspiracy, apart from endemic waste and fraud, is that it rides roughshod over the wishes of real people. the push to bully iceland into surrendering to eu rule is an example. gallup polls reveal that 60% of icelanders want to retain their freedom by staying out of the eu. only 26% are now fooled by the pro-union propaganda of the corporate media. this is no surprise. icelanders have the oldest tradition of true democracy in the world. they do not want to exchange it for rule by unelected commissars. icelanders have some of the last great fish stocks in the world. they want to preserve them from being destroyed, as eu membership has destroyed britain’s fish stocks. icelanders are proud of their viking origins, vibrant culture and identity. eu rule would doom reykjavik to becoming a scale model of the muslim ghettos of ‘londonistan’, paris, brussels and copenhagen! so, from the belly of the euro beast, i urge the people of iceland: stay free! say ‘no’ to european union!
madam president, there is no doubt that iceland’s home is in the european union and it may come as a surprise to nick griffin that iceland already voluntarily applies two thirds of eu laws, voluntarily is a member of the internal market and voluntarily is in the schengen zone. what i want to stress today is that we need to develop responses to the financial crisis. it has been a dominant feature of our european policymaking process. commissioner, as you know, today parliament will vote on the financial supervisory package and on capital requirements for institutions and rules for bankers’ pay and remuneration. it is therefore important, in the wake of iceland’s banking collapse, that we strengthen our partnership around financial reform. i am pleased therefore that this forms a key part – and indeed an early part – of the negotiations with iceland. there is of course – as many colleagues have said – one major outstanding issue that needs to be resolved. the icesave negotiations between the uk, netherlands and iceland need to find a fair and equitable solution to the compensation paid to savers and indeed, in my own constituency, to a cancer care charity which lost funds that had been donated to them and had to be compensated by our government. i am therefore pleased that the commission and council recognise the importance of this solution. i would again stress that financial services and improved supervision must be an essential element of the negotiations in the interests of the european economy, not just of iceland and other member states.
madam president, we are talking about a small atlantic community with a parliament that has been in existence for over 1 000 years. we are talking about a place with good levels of education. we are talking about a place where people actually think before they jump. i think that is why roughly two thirds of people in the opinion polls have made their minds up: they do not want to join the european union. it is not going to happen! all i can say is: lucky old iceland! because they were not part of this club, because they did not surrender to the euro, they have had a competitive devaluation of the króna, which has been good for their economy. it has led to a tourist boom and i would have thought countries like greece would be very jealous of them. and they have a 200-mile exclusive economic zone for their fisheries, which they won during the cod wars with britain back in the 1970s. do not sacrifice it! do not give it away! do not trust your own career politicians, because, if you do, this lot will take your greatest renewable resource from you! do not do it!
madam president, i believe iceland’s membership would strengthen the values of the european union and i welcome the application. i am told that our insistence on the curtailing of whaling will provoke an outcry in iceland, but icelanders need to understand that not to insist upon such a curtailment would provoke an outcry in the rest of europe. we have to recognise that iceland has an excellent record in marine conservation – much better than that of many member states. i could live with an arrangement that allowed whaling solely to meet indigenous needs, although the evidence is that icelanders themselves do not seem to like whale very much. i cannot accept whaling for commercial export. i hope that iceland will become known as the place in europe where we go to watch whales, not where we go to see them killed.
madam president, it seems to me that there are two contradictory paragraphs on fisheries in our resolution. paragraph 26, which i will vote against, ‘encourages iceland to adopt fisheries-policy measures that will allow it to make the transition towards introduction of the cfp’. surely not the current cfp? surely icelanders will not volunteer to join a common fisheries policy that has failed us, just as it would fail them? by contrast, paragraph 25 recognises iceland’s ‘responsible and sustainable’ attitude to fisheries and calls for constructive negotiations on fisheries ‘so that the outcome may be a mutually satisfactory solution based on best practices and protecting the interest of both fishermen and consumers in the eu, as well as in iceland’. on that point, which i do support, i think there is a need for urgent discussions with iceland on the issue of the mackerel fishery, which i think the commissioner will be aware of. these discussions should be brought forward. i also think that iceland has a role to play in indicating... (the president cut off the speaker.)
member of the commission. − madam president, let me once again show my appreciation for the role of the european parliament, including the draft resolution tabled on iceland. enlargement is indeed a very serious process and it will not be used for bullying anyone – not here in the eu and not in any aspirant country. not only at the end of this process, but throughout this process, it should be clearly established that membership is value added for both iceland and the european union. during today’s discussions i have heard a number of important points on whaling, fishery policies and public support. i am taking them very seriously, and they will be high on my list of priorities throughout the accession negotiations.
president of the council. - madam president, i thank the rapporteur, mr preda, who referred to the good cooperation between the european parliament, the commission and the council, a cooperation which the rotating presidency intends to continue to place at the top of its agenda. as commissioner füle has already indicated, iceland has indeed - and many of you have pointed this out - already made good progress towards respecting the acquis communautaire, but we have taken note of a series of recurring questions on subjects such as icesave, whaling and the independence of the judiciary. the accession of iceland, ladies and gentlemen, will continue to be based on a win-win logic, based on the will of both iceland and the european union to benefit from greater integration. in this context, there is no room for expansionary fatigue and we will do everything possible to continue to steer these processes in a positive direction in cooperation with commissioner füle.
in writing. – at this stage it is worth highlighting the continuing predicament brought upon thousands of uk citizens following the failure of several icelandic banks. these problems, in particular the icesave dispute, must be resolved before iceland’s accession is agreed. there is of course another reason why we have to be cautious of iceland’s accession to the eu. iceland is understandably protective of its fishing industry. as fish is the country’s primary export and main foreign currency earner, iceland hails the positives of its fisheries management policy, compared to the negatives of the eu’s failed fisheries policy. however, from the perspective of northern eu pelagic fishermen, free access to our waters is exactly what iceland hopes to win from ongoing fisheries negotiations. the threat to the sustainable and well-managed mackerel stock in eu and uk waters that could come from icelandic fishermen is very real. ongoing negotiations with iceland represent an ideal opportunity to dissuade iceland from fishing mackerel at an unsustainable level. in the clamber to expand membership of the eu club the interests of european and uk savers and our fishermen cannot be ignored.
in writing. – i welcome iceland’s application to join the eu. it has been a long time coming, and we need to negotiate and discuss this issue in earnest in order to ensure that iceland is welcomed as a full member of the eu family.
madam president, i rise to ask the president, through you, to make urgent representations to the government of the maldives, following the arrest last week of opposition mps without them being told the charges against them, and their continued house arrest. a claim has been made that they have acted unconstitutionally, which should be substantiated or withdrawn. without making any comment about the country’s domestic politics, it is right for this european parliament to speak out in favour of democratic institutions and for the safety and protection of fellow parliamentarians, where this is under threat. today, the army is deployed on the streets and there is huge unrest in the capital, but today, too, the president of sri lanka is arriving to attempt mediation between the parties. this european parliament should join the european union’s call for calm and for resolution of the dispute, and wish success to the president of sri lanka in achieving his task.
mr howitt, thank you for bringing those matters to our attention.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
rapporteur. − madam president, for the same reasons as my colleagues and fellow rapporteurs have asked for a postponement, i too ask for a postponement on this report to give us the time that we really need to have a thorough discussion with the council on whatever they come back to us with. i believe this can be a successful deal. i think this will help us today to have the strong position we need, even though we have converged from different directions, in order to be able to discuss that deal with commission and council.
madam president, i see that we are now presuming to regulate the terms and conditions of private-sector employment. some honourable members in this house will recall coming from countries where this was the normal business of the state. even my country went falteringly a few steps down this road in the 1970s, with calamitous consequences. it is not the proper business of government to tell people what they can earn. if i want to work for you, madam president, and you are content to employ me and we are both happy with the terms of our contract, it is wrong for the state to come between us and declare it illegal – let alone for the eu to do so. i understand that people are cross with banks at the moment, but this proposal is not a proportionate response to an identified problem. it is a form of letting off steam. it is an expression of inchoate anger. some of us were against these bail-outs in the first place. we never saw why we should be using taxpayers’ money to rescue some very wealthy individuals from the consequences of their own errors. it really is a bit rich for those of you who insisted on the bail-outs now to be complaining and trying to regulate the banks. even if we do have to do this, it should be done through the proper democratic national mechanisms of the member states – not imposed by brussels without democratic consent.
madam president, thank you, and how wonderful it is to see you in the chair once more. i think we all agree that remuneration should be aligned with performance. we have all been angered by what we see as directors, bankers and others who seem to be rewarded for failure, especially when their actions have led to an increase in debt and contributed to the credit bubble and the problems that we have seen. however, we should be aware of the unintended consequences of any regulation, and i am afraid that all too often we are not. if you regulate the variable part of remuneration, if you regulate bonuses in a way that is not aligned with performance, how will these organisations respond? they will simply increase the non-variable part. they will increase the basic salary and reduce the variable part of remuneration. what you then end up with is a situation where performance and reward are actually far less aligned than they were before. let us make sure that we study the unintended consequences of our actions.
madam president, may i say what a pleasure it is to be able now to call you my honourable friend as a result of the coalition that neither of us perhaps anticipated – but there we are, there is a divinity which shapes our ends, rough-hew them how we will. in that spirit, i would like to thank you and the other liberal democrat meps for the role you have played in some of the legislation that went through today – some of which was postponed – on the creation of a new european network to regulate financial services. this, it seems to me, has the potential of being a new common fisheries policy. the overwhelming majority of financial services in the european union are concentrated in the city of london, and if we disable the city of london... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr hannan, you are meant to be speaking on the liotard report.
madam president, to what problem is this report a solution? we can blame an awful lot of people for the credit crunch. we can blame the central banks, we can blame the regulators, we can blame the governments for keeping interest rates too low for too long, but i am afraid i do not think that these proposals are being put forward as a specific remedy to an identified problem. they are rather the product of an unfocused and inchoate rage against anyone who wears pinstripes or anyone who works in financial services. now, that is fine if you represent a country which has a negligible financial services centre, but your constituents and mine are indirectly supported by the one bit of the british economy that is generating the wealth that pays for all of the government’s expenditure. i see in these proposals, if we shift invigilatory power from london to brussels, an equivalent in financial terms of the common fisheries policy, a system where britain is disproportionately filling a common pot for others to draw on evenly. i can understand why some members, either out of resentment against london or against capitalism, are voting for this. i find it extraordinary and disgraceful that our own countrymen in this chamber should be doing the same thing.
madam president, it is touchingly hopeful of this house to imagine that anyone would vote to join the eu in present circumstances. not for the first time, the european parliament is exhibiting an optimism that makes doctor pangloss sound like cassandra. i have been visiting iceland since 1992. i have been a regular, and appreciative, visitor. i have seen a country transformed in those years. of course it has been through hard times recently, but nobody can deny the magnitude of an achievement which has taken a people, in two generations, from subsistence farming and fishing to enjoying one of the highest standards of living in the world. i am a democrat and i will respect the decision of the icelandic people one way or the other. if they vote to join the eu i will of course back their claim. however, i cannot imagine for a moment that they will vote to surrender the prerogatives of the althing, which is one of the oldest parliaments in the world, or that they will condemn their oceans to the same sterility as the seas around britain, or that they will hand away the autonomy and self-reliance that is bred in the bone of the icelandic people. their most famous modern novel is independent people (sjálfstætt fólk). this is a phrase which has a resonance that non-icelanders find hard to appreciate. unless i have utterly misjudged them, they will not vote to hand away that independence and surrender their democracy.
in writing. − we voted in favour of this because it criticised bonuses in financial institutions but did not introduce european-wide legislation.
in writing. − i fully welcome this report.
in writing. − i welcome this house’s call for a ban on food from cloned animals and am certain that parliament’s view reflects the feelings of the vast majority of european citizens. i am disappointed, however, that the amendment requiring labelling on food derived from gm-fed animals did not receive the required majority. i am sure that the vast majority of european citizens would support that too.
in writing. − this is an issue of great concern to constituents throughout europe, and i heard the concern of many of my own constituents in scotland. i agree that food from cloned animals should not enter the food chain and that we need rigorous safety assessments on food from nanotechnology before we can consider placing it on the market. as with the recent vote on food labelling, i fully support clear labelling of meat, and in particular that meat from animals fed gm feed is explicitly marked. i am very disappointed that the amendment on gm labelling of foods did not get the votes required, due in part to the lack of support from british conservative meps.
in writing. − for too long the eu has been complicit in the global trade in illegal timber. deforestation is a serious problem for the entire planet and has a huge impact on the world environment. today’s vote will put an end to the use of illegal timber within the eu and is a positive step towards solving a real problem.
in writing. − i am very pleased this report was adopted in parliament. as the largest consumer of timber products in the world the eu has an obligation to import such products responsibly, and this requirement will now have a positive effect on the environment, human rights and consumer protection. i was disappointed that some provisions – such as our original provisions for non-compliance penalties – were weakened during council negotiations, but i am pleased this report has been adopted.
in writing. − we voted against this not because we objected to all of the substance but because we objected to european union legislative control over british institutions. regulation of british institutions should be legislated on by the british parliament.
in writing. − two years after the global banking crisis hit, we are only at the beginning of the real pain. cuts are going to be implemented across the public sector with the resulting job losses, reduction in vital services and the associated impact on the wider economy. the citizens of europe feel total distaste for the high-risk bonus culture which has permeated the banking sector and today’s vote shows that this toxic culture must end.
in writing. − this report has been a long time coming. it is extremely important that we cover this topic with eu agreements spanning all member states.
in writing. − the ecr fully supports the establishment of the european supervisory architecture, and particularly the esrb and the single rule book for financial services within the eu. although the group felt able to lend its support to the majority of the compromise text there are some areas in which dialogue with the council and commission had advanced further than the text reflects. the ecr looks forward to continued dialogue from all sides to reach a first reading agreement which all member states feel able to support.
in writing. − this report is extremely important – to provide the marketplace with the certainty that it needs.
in writing. − whilst i will be delighted should iceland join the ranks of independent nations opting into the eu, today’s resolution contains a glaring contradiction. paragraph 25 rightly acknowledges iceland’s success in operating a responsible and sustainable fishing industry – in stark contrast to the eu’s track record. it goes on to call for constructive negotiations on fisheries in order to reach a satisfactory solution, which could presumably include a cfp opt-out. paragraph 26, however, encourages iceland to start adopting eu-style mechanisms to facilitate its entry into the cfp. to suggest that iceland should ditch its responsible, sustainable practices in order to adopt the eu’s failed system is ludicrous. the eu should take lessons from iceland’s successful national control, not impose failure on a proud fishing nation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the european external action service, or what we would prefer to be known as the eu diplomatic service, has been subject to a prolonged bout of wrangling over its composition recently. thankfully, this has now ended, and high representative ashton emerges with considerable credit for her administrative skills and consensual approach. british conservatives were opposed to the creation of the eeas, but we are now reconciled to engaging constructively, though not uncritically, with it. the eeas as now proposed inevitably represents a compromise – in my view an acceptable compromise – but perhaps we should expect this from a hybrid sui generis independent institution which has never been seen before. i personally would have liked a greater emphasis on the intergovernmental council-led approach and a merit-based selection of national and eu diplomats, as opposed to national quotas – as well as some political appointees, and why not the odd ex-prime minister or two? nevertheless i welcome the eeas strategic role over development and aid policy and the modest increases in powers acquired for this parliament, such as confirmation hearings for senior appointees and the budgetary and staff regulation powers which are clear in the treaties. this will further increase democratic oversight of the service. finally, i hope that national mps will also be closely involved from the beginning in new formal structures for scrutinising the eeas. this is especially important from the point of view of the military csdp missions, which are funded from national, not eu, budgets. the uk is a significant contributor to such missions and our national mps must be kept fully appraised and on board if these missions are to retain popular support back home.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, there is something much deeper and more significant about the external action service, which is rooted in international law about what constitutes a nation state. under the guiding 1933 montevideo convention, which the eu has accepted, there are four separate qualifications for a state: a permanent population, defined territory, a government, and the capacity to enter into diplomatic relations with other states. the eu already possesses three of these four: a permanent population – the lisbon treaty makes us all eu citizens; a defined territory – the eu nations all have clear, defined boundaries; a government – well, ukip has long argued that this parliament, the council of ministers and the real power, the commission, are all part of an eu government. that leaves the fourth and final component: the capacity for a nation state to enter into relations with other nation states. i believe that through the lisbon treaty, through baroness ashton’s role and the external action service, the european union now has all four criteria it needs under international law to declare itself a single nation state – a united states of europe – and to do so overnight. (applause from the centre and left)i see there are many supporters here of that – that confirms my speech and the threat to our nation states!
mr president, it now appears that we have a broad agreement on the instruments, processes and personnel. what we now need is an argument about policy. we ought to be sufficiently brave to compare, to contrast and to contest each other’s national foreign policies. if we fail to put ourselves through such an argument, a common security and defence policy cannot emerge. so i think baroness ashton ought to be posing some tough questions. for instance, why do five states still oppose recognition of the independence of kosovo? why is greece permitted to block the emergence of macedonia as a state? why is there still a cold war between turkey and cyprus? i do hope that, through asking that kind of tough question, the creative and courageous proposals for solutions will emerge. for instance, the proposal to launch a concerted csdp mission to combat international organised crime is precisely the kind of policy that we are now seeking from baroness ashton, serviced by this top class diplomacy that we are to put in place. good luck, and thank you for your successes so far.
mr president, i make no secret that i was opposed to the establishment of the external action service. my view is that foreign policy should remain the exclusive preserve of the member states. however, as a pragmatist, i have to deal with the eu as it is, and not how i might like it to be. so i welcome the good work of our rapporteurs in their negotiations with baroness ashton. their most significant success is securing agreement that this parliament will scrutinise the budget of the service. at a time of austerity, we must ensure that taxpayers’ money is not wasted on superfluous expenditure, such as a european diplomatic training college, which happens all too often in the eu. baroness ashton made a solemn promise that the service would be budget-neutral. i have my doubts as to whether that will actually be achieved, but if we are to serve the taxpayers we represent, we need to hold her to that promise.
mr president, i congratulate cathy ashton and parliamentary colleagues for coming to a compromise which has preserved our vision of an ambitious and inclusive european diplomatic service that combines all of the eu’s outward-facing activities, respecting legal prerogatives but defeating those in council, commission and even here in parliament who sought to preserve bureaucratic empires at its expense. those in this chamber who are rightly worried about the balance of national representation should support the high representative in pursuing appointment by merit, precisely because it will break the post-colonial link between some countries and regions of the world which they see as clients, and it is therefore in the ultimate interest of genuine pro-european working which looks to the future and not the past. those in parliament – like those who sought to keep this issue off the agenda this week – must translate today’s agreement faithfully and without further delay into the financial and staffing regulations. we will still be in a situation where the first anniversary of the high representative’s appointment will approach and the services that she has been asked to lead will only just have been created. the european parliament should speak clearly in favour of the agreement or it is europe which will lose its voice.
mr president, many of us have opposed the very idea of a european external action service. it is one of the baleful consequences of the lisbon treaty and another major step in the direction of european political integration which, frankly, our people do not want. however, i – like the british foreign secretary – now recognise the existence of the eas as a fact and we need to make the best of it. i would therefore ask the high representative to give the following guarantees in relation to the eas – firstly, that it will add no additional cost to eu or national budgets; secondly, that it will do nothing that will interfere in or diminish the role of national diplomatic representation, in particular that of the united kingdom; thirdly, that it will not become yet another opaque bureaucratic apparatus and, fourthly, that it will provide for proper oversight by both national parliaments and this parliament. in this regard, may i say that, given her responsibilities for eu defence policy and given the fact that the weu assembly is now being dissolved – the one forum where national parliamentarians had oversight of european activities in the defence field – and given the fact that military forces are, and remain, under national control, will the high representative take concrete steps to ensure that national parliaments indeed have a role in relation to the eas?
mr president, the high representative is supposed to receive a mandate from the council which contains the representatives of member states. however, we have heard today from the rapporteurs that ‘the foreign policy must not be subject to renationalisation’ and ‘it will break the red lines laid down by member states’. lastly, ‘foreign policy must be free from member states’ interference’. the council is supposed to provide the high representative with a mandate but its members must not interfere. the discussions in afco have made it quite clear that the institution to which the european external action service will be closest will be the commission, of which of course the high representative is also vice-president. when the constitutional treaty was replaced by the lisbon treaty, the british government took the initiative to disguise the eu foreign minister as the innocuous sounding high representative. why? firstly, to avoid a referendum and, secondly, to deny the fact that a continent-wide superstate was being created.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the international community’s hasty and inconsistent approach towards kosovo – and i await the icg ruling with great interest – over the past decade has created a problem that will cost hard-pressed european taxpayers a lot of money. kosovo cannot join the eu because five eu member states refuse to recognise its sovereignty. corruption remains a huge problem in kosovo, which is also a major transit centre for illegal narcotics and people trafficking. the economy is far too dependent on eu and western aid, and there seems to be no easy way out of this impasse. ten years ago, in a personal capacity, i advocated partition as an answer to the problem. this is a solution many serbian politicians favour but one that few western politicians would countenance for now. my group, the ecr, does, however, fully support albanian eu accession once they satisfy all the copenhagen criteria and, in particular, improve their poor record on fighting corruption and organised crime. there is also an urgent need to solve the boycott by the opposition socialists of the parliament. speaking personally, i do find it hard to see how albania can reconcile its full membership of the organisation of the islamic conference with future cfsp positions if it becomes a member of the european union, although i am partially reassured by the fact that it is already a full member of nato.
mr president, international recognition of the independence of the serbian province of kosovo – such as that proposed by mrs lunacek – lies in direct contravention of united nations security council resolution 1244, which is supported both by the eu member states and by belgrade. while i particularly welcome mrs lunacek’s commitment to the protection of kosovo’s serbian orthodox religious heritage and the rights of the minority serb, roma, gorani, turk and bosnian communities, which continue to be abused by the albanian kosovan majority, resolution 1244 clearly and unambiguously states that any discussion about the future of that province must take the sovereignty and the territorial integrity of serbia into account, encouraging the granting of societal autonomy and meaningful self-determination to kosovo. kls splinter groups continue to operate along the kosovan border, pursuing further irredentist claims on the south-serbian preševo valley and destabilising governance in the western part of macedonia, which is a european union candidate country i know very well. the international community must take steps to grant those living in the majority-serb peć and mitrovica regions the opportunity to decide where, and with whom, they wish to live. now is not the time to recognise kosovan independence. i urge the house to reject this resolution.
we now move to the catch-the-eye part of the debate. before we start, i am going to have to say that one minute means one minute. we are running behind time.
i cannot possibly take any more requests for the floor. i have gone over the normal number.
i have received two motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday 8 july 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on oil exploration and extraction – risks, liability and regulation.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in kyrgyzstan.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, two weeks ago i was in uzbekistan. i had meetings with senior ministers in tashkent who briefed me extensively on the refugee crisis arising from the recent violence in southern kyrgyzstan. i have written to the high representative in detail on this issue. the uzbek government has little hesitation in blaming former president kurmanbek bakiyev for playing a pivotal role in this uprising in the cities of osh and jalalabad in southern kyrgyzstan. they point out that the kyrgyz and uzbek population in these cities have lived together in harmony for millennia. the ministers i met are convinced that the level of violence and brutality perpetrated against innocent civilians was horrific and could only have been carried out by experienced mercenary killers – perhaps veterans of afghanistan or chechnya – and they reckon that about 2 000 people were killed. apparently many of the victims were shot by trained marksmen, pregnant women were disembowelled, young girls were brutally raped and murdered, and babies were decapitated and their bodies hurled into the river. this level of violence would be bizarre and unlikely in an uprising involving local kyrgyz youths alone, although teenagers and young men from both the kyrgyz and uzbek populations did get involved when they witnessed the extent of the violence that was taking place. the general view in tashkent is that this uprising was planned well in advance and financed by bakiyev with the orders on the ground in southern kyrgyzstan being relayed by his family and loyal supporters. the resulting exodus of refugees across the border into uzbekistan numbered in excess of 100 000. these refugees were accommodated in 15 camps set up near the border. the uzbek government provided a good level of tented accommodation, sanitary facilities, food and medical aid for this vast influx of people, but the numbers far exceeded anything they could ever have predicted and they are having difficulty sustaining the cost of the operation. they are particularly desperate to receive financial aid to purchase foodstuffs. they fear that the refugee problem may be long term, as many of the displaced uzbeks are afraid to return to their homes in kyrgyzstan because of the massive violence they witnessed. the 15 refugee camps in uzbekistan are now crammed full with elderly people, women, children and many wounded, all of whom are receiving proper medical attention from the uzbek authorities. some of these refugees have now returned to kyrgyzstan, but many have taken their tents with them and set up camps just across the border, ready to flee back to uzbekistan again at the first sign of trouble. they are terrified to return to osh or jalalabad, where more than 75% of uzbek homes and most uzbek businesses have been destroyed. the uzbek government is of course grateful for the eur 5 million offered in aid to the kyrgyz and uzbek governments by the eu. they urge the un to provide personnel to oversee the distribution of all aid on the ground, but they reaffirm that they require around eur 5 million a day in uzbekistan alone to deal adequately with the refugee crisis. they have all the supplies of grain and the other essential foodstuffs and medicines in uzbekistan, but they cannot sustain the distribution of these commodities without financial support. the uzbek government stresses the need for an international inquiry into the circumstances surrounding this uprising, and i am delighted that we will support this in this resolution.
madam president, i do not think any of us can fail to be sympathetic to the people of kyrgyzstan for the recent suffering they have endured: 2 000 dead in rioting and 400 000 people displaced – mainly from the uzbek community – placing enormous pressure on uzbekistan. this is an immense crisis, in the words of the red cross. this country is already the poorest and the smallest of the former soviet republics. it is tragic for a country that aspires so earnestly for parliamentary democracy to be in this kind of state. indeed, the trigger seemed to have been the constitutional changes that they wished to aspire to. it is also one of the few muslim nations in the world to be headed up by a woman; let us hope that iran follows shortly. this lady, roza otunbayeva, is the first president of an ex-communist central asian country – and good for her. all democratic nations should be doing all they can to support an aspiring parliamentary democracy of this sort, but it is swimming in a sea of powerful autocratic neighbours and with the ever-present threat of radical islam on its borders. this nation is a bulkhead of democracy and deserves our support. i fear it has become a pawn in larger power games. it is now part of the shanghai cooperation organisation, which china and russia use to dominate the central asian landmass and whose agenda should be regarded with some suspicion. china and russia have incentives to destabilise the country to threaten the presence of an american airbase there as well, with covert backing of opposition forces. may i conclude by saying that all democratic nations should support this brave, aspiring but deeply troubled nation.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, listening to baroness ashton’s introductory statement i can only say that i feel i can go home. my work is done. i have rarely listened to someone on this side of the house sitting in her position that understands not only what we have done, not only what we are doing, but what we need to do to protect those who are most vulnerable. that is why i am really pleased that the parliament has decided to take a rights-based approach, because once you have rights those rights can be enforced by you, by civil society acting on your behalf, or can be enforced by your government – and i speak also as parliament’s rapporteur on the review of the millennium development goals. sadly, with aids and hiv, the numbers are growing: currently over 33 million people are living with aids and hiv. in 2008 alone, 2.7 million people were newly infected, most of those in sub-saharan africa and most – 60% – women and young children. there is quite clearly so much more we need to do. we need to empower individuals about the choices they have, about their bodies and about denying the rights that others wish to force upon them – particularly men – or those, like transgendered people, who are often sex workers and have no choice but to yield to the demands of others. that is why i am particularly pleased that we have made reference to those who are primarily affected by this. there are elevated levels of infections amongst sex workers, men who have sex with men and deny their own sexuality because of a low esteem level, transgendered people, prisoners, injecting drug users, migrant populations, refugee and mobile workers in nearly all regions. in our own near neighbourhood, ukraine and russia, as well as other countries, there are epidemic levels. it is, however, not all a negative story: the eu has led on this and will continue to lead, and i hope we will lead at the 18th annual conference in vienna. i just want to say this. behind all of those statistics of millions, imagine that there is one life affected with the reality of living with aids and hiv. think of the lost generations, lost lives, lost lovers, lost parents, lost brothers and sisters, lives often lost by the loss of the other. think of the waste – the total, abject waste of life from the preventable transmission of the hiv virus.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, cluster bombs have killed and injured thousands of civilians during the last 40 years and sadly continue to do so today. we must remember that a third of all recorded cluster munitions casualties are children. take the case of a vietnamese girl helping her father with the gardening one day. she was the victim of a cluster bomb and lost both her legs. the tragedy is that she was considered lucky: four out of ten cluster bomb accidents result in death. after years of campaigning, we finally now have a convention which can help to deliver change. it is absolutely vital, first and foremost, that all eu member states sign and ratify the convention as a matter of urgency. sadly, as mrs gomes says and as this resolution states, only 11 member states have ratified the convention so far. as we move towards the entry into force of this convention on 1 august, i would like to see a concerted effort by parliament and the commission to convince all eu member states to sign and ratify it. eu member states that have signed should work quickly to put into place national legislation to implement it and destroy their stockpiles, as spain has already done. in 2002, i was parliament’s rapporteur for its report on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was adopted in 2006. the eu will soon sign this landmark convention. it will be a total contradiction if we then failed to take action on cluster bombs. looking to the future, it is important as well that the commission and the council include a ban on cluster munitions in a standard clause in agreements with third countries. i would like to hear the high representative’s plans to take this forward. the convention also establishes a new humanitarian standard for the assistance of victims in article 5, calling for guidelines and good practice including in the areas of medical care, rehabilitation and psychological support. also important, as the high representative has mentioned, is the clearance of the millions of unexploded cluster munition remnants that are left behind after conflicts. article 6 of the convention calls for each country to provide assistance for clearance and destruction of cluster munition remnants and information concerning various means and technologies related to the clearance of those munitions. we must do all we can to save the lives of thousands who have yet to be killed and injured and to help those who have been. we know enough about the horrific effects of these weapons to know that even those who have not signed the convention should never ever use them again. i urge you all to support this resolution.
rapporteur. − mr president, could i begin by offering my commiserations to my german colleagues and congratulations to my spanish colleagues after last night’s excellent match. i would like to set out what i believe are the two fundamental questions that we need to answer in terms of cap reform. what is the cap for? why is it still relevant in the 21st century? in these times of economic crisis, debt-ridden public finances and austerity budgets, it is vital that the cap provides answers to these questions if we want taxpayers to continue providing much needed support for our farmers in the future. one of the fundamental challenges society faces is how to feed a growing world demand for food, estimated by the fao to double by the year 2050. the big challenge of course is how to meet that doubling of food demand against a background of less land, less water and less energy due to the impact of climate change. how do we square that circle and avoid the perfect storm predicted by uk’s chief scientific advisor, sir john beddington, when he said in 2009 ‘we head into a perfect storm in 2030, because all of these things are operating on the same time frame’? if we do not address this we can expect major destabilisation, an increase in rioting and potentially significant problems with international migration as people move out to avoid food and water shortages. that is the scale of the challenge. i believe that tackling climate change and making our agriculture production more sustainable are objectives which must be at the heart of the reform going forward. they are vital steps if we are to continue to have guaranteed food security for our european citizens and still make a contribution to meeting growing global demand for food. reform should also encourage green growth through the development of small-scale renewables such as wind, biomass, biogas and second generation biofuels. that would help to create jobs and provide real opportunities for farmers to diversify and earn extra income. we also must respond to the call for greater environmental protection by ensuring farmers have an opportunity to participate in agri-environmental schemes with a goal of a majority of farmland being covered by such a scheme over the period of the next reform. by using the carrot, rather than the stick – that is a very important principle, the carrot encouragement rather than the big stick of rules and regulations – you will get buy-in from farmers to this agenda. fairness also has to be a key driver of the reform: fair to old member states as well as new member states in the distribution of direct payment envelopes across the eu; a fair distribution among farmers and member states by bringing historic payments to an end by 2020. it cannot be right and justified to continue making payments based on how you farmed some 10 years ago. we also need a fair deal for farmers in the food chain to be able to take on the power of the multiples. so, fairness, and the principle of fairness, must be at the heart of the reform going forward. we also have to address the issue of market volatility, but on this i would urge some caution. yes, we still need intervention and private aids to storage. yes, we need to examine other tools such as risk insurance and future markets. yes, we need our special reserve budget line to fund action in terms of crisis. but we should reject any thought of a return to the wide-scale management of the markets we saw in the past. that has already been tried and it has failed. i would suggest that we do not wish to go down that road again. in conclusion, i am confident that this house will back our reforms, modernising the cap, setting it on a new course to deliver on the new challenges of the 21st century. by backing this report the parliament will shape the debate, set the agenda, and i would invite the commissioner to use our ideas to inform his proposals on cap reform when he publishes them in november this year.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this report allows parliament to outline our views before the commission brings forward its proposals on the future of the cap by the end of this year. while i and my group will be voting in favour of this report, i wish to make it clear that there are some parts which we do not agree with. certainly, maintaining the second pillar structure is crucial and will prove to be central to the long-term success of the cap. however, on balance i believe it to be a good starting point for a comprehensive debate on the issue and shows that the committee can work together. we have a major responsibility as a parliament to ensure that any future reform ensures that agriculture as an industry can compete and can survive in the future. the cap has seen vast changes, and we must ensure that it is fit for purpose in the 21st century. we must remember that the cap is not just for farmers: it provides us with a safe and secure food supply and wide-ranging public goods and environmental benefits. in order to achieve these goals i feel that the budget must be at least maintained, and i want to thank the rapporteur for a very good report and his cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report. it was good indeed to have a listening rapporteur, and his travels within member states reflect that and also reflect the outcomes within the report. the future of farming and the cap must provide farmers with a viable secure income. pillar one payments must continue giving farmers a direct payment which gives them a minimum level of income security. to achieve this, we will need a cap budget which is at least maintained at the current level or, more importantly, increased to take into consideration the expansion of the union. volatility within markets has been detrimental to the industry across europe, and we need to retain the safety nets to maintain stability and ensure profitability. the distribution of cap funds must take into consideration the cost of production in member states. the definition of fair must be examined in greater detail by the commission and area-based payment which would result in farmers in northern ireland receiving less in their single farm payment would be detrimental to an industry where many farmers are on the verge of viability. northern ireland has many farmers who have a small area of land, but who farm intensively, and such a payment would neither reflect their work nor the financial burden they face. regional variation must therefore be taken into consideration and catered for in the post-cap 2013.
mr president, i shall be no exception in congratulating my scottish colleague, george lyon, on a very solid report. there is much in this report to be content with and i echo the comments of a number of colleagues this morning. i particularly like the very clear reference in the report that food production is the primary purpose of the common agricultural policy. everything else is very worthy, very desirable, but secondary. we must be clear in our own minds that food security is an integral part of our european national security and the primary public benefit of the cap which is worth paying for in its own right. i pick up particularly on mr la via’s comments on the budget, which have been echoed by remarkably few colleagues this morning. perhaps it is a little stereotypically scottish to focus so much on the budget, but, unless we have sufficient monetary resources allocated to this policy, it is all pointless. i would be grateful for a few words from our commissioner about how he proposes to defend that budget going forward, not least because a number of member states, including britain, want to end direct payments to farmers. you can, however, rest assured of the support of this house in maintaining a workable cap and a workable budget, and this forms a good basis for ongoing discussion.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím fosta roimh an tuarascáil thábhachtach seo, cé go bhfuil rud beag díomá orm nach n-éiríonn léi fís a leagan amach don chomhbheartas talmhaíochta (cbt) a chuirfidh stop le bánú na tuaithe agus a chinnteoidh gur féidir le feirmeoirí gníomhacha earraí agus seirbhísí a sholáthar a éilíonn an tsochaí. tá cbt de dhíth orainn a chinnteoidh bia d’ard-cháilíocht soláthraithe ar chaighdeáin arda, cúram agus cothabháil don talamh, agus cosaint don uisce, don ithir agus don bhithéagsúlacht; comhbheartas a chinnteoidh poist i limistéir tuaithe agus geilleagar tuaithe neartaithe, agus a neartóidh an troid in éadan athruithe aeráide. is gá an cbt a leasú le cuidiú leo a dteastaíonn sé uathu go géar. faoi láthair téann an chomhréir is mó chuig uinéirí móra agus chuig táirgeoirí. tá buiséad ceart don cbt tábhachtach fosta agus gabhaim buíochas leis an uasal lyon.
mr president, i declare an interest as a working farmer. plans for the future of the cap have to work at a practical level and it must be affordable. the military have a phrase ‘no names, no pack-drill’; however, a member of the ppe group voted against this report in committee. this may be because, in today’s financial climate, cost is a worry and the report’s enthusiasm for non-agricultural objectives under pillar two diverts funds away from farmers. the report’s obsession with climate change could lead to accepting advice that obliges arable farmers to pump tractor exhaust under the ground, increasing fuel consumption and spoiling seabeds as a consequence. my own experience of witnessing contractors’ attempts to inject dirty water under the ground to satisfy eu rules tells me what problems lie ahead. ruminant livestock farmers may be required to reduce methane emissions by replacing hay and silage with more expensive cereal-based rations. if there has to be a cap, let it assist farmers and not hinder them.
mr president, in this changing world it is vitally important that the common agricultural policy goes on changing so that it can be relevant to the challenges of the future and not live in the past. the reformed common agricultural policy is going to have a vitally important role to play in confronting issues like food security, market volatility and climate change, but i want to mention three other principles which, to my mind, are no less important. firstly, we must recognise that the best way of achieving the goals of the common agricultural policy is to create a viable, dynamic farming sector and i do not think we should lose sight of that aim. secondly, if you are going to achieve that, the common agricultural policy needs to be simpler, fairer and more transparent at point of delivery. finally, it needs to deliver value for money. all nations and all sectors are experiencing tough economic times at present, and i caution this committee to be utterly realistic about its expectations from the european budget. to my mind, that means we should ensure that funds are used effectively. the rapporteur has produced an excellent report. i congratulate him on his work and am happy to support.
mr president, the future of the common agricultural policy will see increased focus on connecting it with climate change policy. in my constituency of wales the existing schemes and pillar two will be replaced by the glastir scheme that focuses on climate change objectives and carbon sequestration. farmers will be paid per hectare for water conservation, reforestation and so forth. while reforming the cap post 2013 it is important not to sacrifice pillar one for the sake of promoting new pillar two objectives. the single farm payment is vital for many farmers reliant on subsidies that could be stripped at the drop of a hat. if welsh farmers are unhappy about glastir arrangements, will they be offered sensible alternatives, or will they be penalised in any way for not adopting the scheme? choice without an alternative is no choice at all. wales has a strong history of agriculture and many communities depend heavily upon farming. current reforms of agricultural policy based solely upon climate change ideology could jeopardise the welsh farming tradition and wales’s economic future.
rapporteur. − mr president, could i first of all just touch on some of the key themes that colleagues have raised during this debate. a new strategic importance for food production and the cap: absolutely. two pillars: absolutely, i agree with that. food production at the heart of the cap: yes, that is absolutely what the cap is about. the rest are all add-ons to ensure that we have a profitable farming sector to be able to deliver the environmental benefits, to tackle climate change and all the other things we set out in the report. a strong budget: yes, absolutely; fair to old and new member states: so many members raised that as an issue, and it is an issue we need to address. it needs to be objective and transparent as to how money is allocated between member states. they need to meet the challenges of the europe 2020 strategy. it is absolutely essential that farming and the cap are seen as part of the solution to meeting these objectives, and not part of the problem. i would like to pay tribute to michel dantin, mr häusling, mr olejniczak and jim nicholson, my shadow rapporteurs. we had tremendous cooperation in bringing together what i believe is a very strong report that sets out a clear vision of where this parliament wants to see the cap head after 2013. i would say that it puts this parliament in a very powerful position when it comes to dealing and negotiating with the commission and with the farm council. i would say to you, commissioner, come alongside us and we can make sure that we deliver that vision together. (applause)
author. − mr president, i think we are in trouble here this morning because of a lack of consultation. i would have thought, as the authors of the mercosur question, we should at least have been afforded the decency of being consulted as to why this has happened. i know the conference of presidents is the be all and the end all, but, mr president, you are a very distinguished member of the bureau of this parliament and i hope you will take back to the bureau the message that when agriculture is debated in this parliament you have to give enough time for it. clearly there was not enough time this morning. you saw the demand and you saw the problem. can we get this parliament to work for the members of parliament, not for the administration of parliament? we are the people elected here to represent our people, not the administration, which is paid big fat salaries... (the president cut off the speaker.)
author. − mr president, i think many were taken by surprise at the recent decision by the commission to reopen the negotiations with mercosur on a free trade agreement. as we enter into a period where we will see reform of the cap, and we have just been debating that, everyone knows that agriculture will be a major part of that agreement. while i accept that the commission services are within their rights to reopen discussions, they would have been much better advised to inform parliament of their intentions. this issue has the possibility to open pandora’s box in many sectors of europe’s agriculture industry, and i therefore seriously question the wisdom of embarking upon any future deal. there are serious ongoing problems in brazil and argentina with regard to animal traceability and other health and safety issues. the most recent report by the fao mission in the state of santa catarina concluded that there were very few controls on cattle passing from argentina to brazil, or indeed between the different states in brazil. by the same token, ear-tagging rules were not enforced. these are only some examples of the many i could list from the fao report last october. i must tell the commissioner very straightforwardly that if he persists down this route he will be opposed every step of the way. i can to some extent understand why this may seem like an attractive option, as wto discussions do not progress with any speed, but i really do believe that this has the potential to destroy the wto. if mercosur succeeds in achieving a deal with the eu, why should these countries continue to participate in wto negotiations? you must understand that there will be no reduction in the level of standards of animal health welfare or traceability. consumers and producers in the european union must be protected, and i do not think that a trade deal with mercosur will achieve this. indeed, it will have entirely the opposite effect.
author. − mr president, i will try and be brief. there are real concerns about the reopening of the negotiations with mercosur. i represent scotland, which has extensive beef production. this is a high-cost system, and it is vital that this production system continues if scotland is not to see much of its land area abandoned because of cheap imports flooding into the market. there is real concern that we might see our scottish beef industry sacrificed due to the need to negotiate and agree a deal with the mercosur countries. i would therefore like to raise a number of questions about this, which is not just a scottish issue, but is also an issue for the irish or french and right across europe. in particular, i would like to ask you why there seems to have been no consultation with this parliament and with parliament’s committee on agriculture before the announcement was made. surely, in the interests of courtesy at least, informing us ahead of the announcement would have helped try and ensure reasonable relations between parliament and yourself on this issue. secondly, what negotiating mandate will the negotiators have in terms of agricultural products? can someone please tell me what they are being allowed to negotiate on? how many tonnes of beef? how much access? is there no tariff, or are there minimum tariffs? can someone please tell us what the mandate is? two other points. when is an impact study going to be carried out to find out what the impact of any deal might be, regardless of its size? at the very least, we should know what the impact is before we sign up to something, especially at a time when we are renegotiating the cap and we are deciding how future farm support is decided. the two are completely linked and therefore we need to understand what the impact will be. finally, what involvement does the agriculture commissioner have on this issue? to date, we have heard very little as to what his role will be in this negotiation, and whether he is responsible for setting the mandate for your negotiators. will this parliament be consulted before any final agreement is reached? i would like to hear some answers to these questions.
mr president, i am extremely concerned that the commission is adamant in continuing trade talks based on a mandate from 1999, which will undoubtedly have a negative impact on agriculture across the eu. sacrificing agriculture for gains in other areas is simply unacceptable. the beef industry in the united kingdom is currently experiencing a fall in farm-gate prices. if there is a rise in imports due to these talks, i believe we will see an exodus of farmers from the industry. how is europe going to provide for these people? is it not unfair that our farmers have to compete with countries whose producers do not have to meet the same quality, safety and traceability benchmarks as farmers within the european union? a commission that claims to act in the best interests of the citizens must do so. we must end these talks and look after our farmers.
mr president, commissioners, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur for his report. on 24 july 2008, in response to the economic crisis facing europe’s fishing fleet, the eu fisheries council approved temporary and specific measures aimed at promoting and restructuring the fleet. just as many fishermen tried to avail themselves of these measures, they were hit with the fallout from the global recession. the value of nethrops or langoustines sold by my fishermen in northern ireland to other parts of europe plummeted. this at the same time as imports of shellfish and fish have become increasingly available. europe needs fish. we need fish imports, but i would contend that these should not come at any cost. on the one hand, my colleagues want to stop our fishermen receiving any subsidy. however, the contradiction comes that, as we seek to remove these subsidies, european policy allows fish imports of unregulated fishery and aquaculture products that undermine the sustainable and economically viable fishing industry we strive for. europe cannot have it both ways. there is a lack of consistency, and it is to reverse this that i support mr cadec’s report.
mr president, i rise again to suggest through you to the conference of presidents that someone needs to get their act together. we were told originally that there would be votes at 12.00. this has moved by five minutes every five minutes. people have planes to catch; it is inconvenient; it makes a mockery of parliament. someone get a grip! (applause)
mr president, given the importance of this vote in advance of the vienna conference, i request a role-call vote on the final vote.
mr president, given the vote that we have just taken, i wonder if the political party that objected would remove its objection and now allow us to have a roll-call vote on the final vote.
mr president, if someone is named in this house, it is their right to reply. i was named. i therefore want to say to mr mitchell and others that, whichever party decides to vote, each of us has our own free vote and the house voted democratically. (applause)
rapporteur. − mr president, there seems to be some confusion as to what we were actually voting on there. the interpretation told us it was 44, and yet you are announcing that 45 has been accepted. there is some confusion that you need to sort out and get the votes right and call them right.
mr president, we need clarification. i do not know whether it is you announcing it wrongly or whether it is the interpretation but, in the english, we got 52 again. we did not get a call on 59, so we do not know where we are.
mr president, can i just say that recital ae is before c. we have not voted on ae yet.
mr president, there are many reasons to vote against this resolution but too many to cover in just 60 seconds. we must of course oppose terrorism but that must not be used as an excuse for governments to spy on their citizens. the confidential information concerned belongs to the citizen, not to the european union, the parliament or indeed the nation state. any such agreement should be concluded between sovereign nation states, answerable to their own people through the democratic process. in any case, this is a one-sided agreement and we have no reason to believe that the united states will honour it. the agreement breaks uk data protection law, which bans the sharing of information without consent between overseas third parties. the british government has an opt-out clause on this, and i hope they overcome their usual spinelessness and oppose and vote against it in the same way i did.
mr president, there is always a delicate balance to be drawn between civil liberties and security. several times since the twin tower attacks nine years ago i think we have got that balance wrong. we have got it wrong because of a false equation in politics, whereby politicians think that their action needs to be in proportion to the extent of public outrage, rather than in proportion to the need to remedy an identified problem. this chamber has made that mistake, but it has not been alone. national parliaments have done the same thing on both sides of the atlantic. on this occasion, though, i believe we have got the balance right. we have taken our time, we have put in sensible safeguards, and i think that we are enabling the security forces of the world to collaborate effectively in the fight against terror without an unacceptable price in terms of civic freedom. this is exactly the kind of thing the european union should concentrate on: a cross-border issue which cannot be left to the member states. if it did this kind of thing all the time, the rest of us would not have such a problem.
mr president, i voted against this report. while many here are no doubt ecstatic at the creation of the eeas as another milestone on the road to union, the uk electorate gets angrier with the erosion of national sovereignty and is perplexed at the idea that uk foreign policy should – or could – become subservient to someone who is not elected by the british people. our foreign secretary now pledges to work closely with the high representative because the eeas is going to have a considerable bearing on the future success of europe’s global role. the irony will not be lost on uk taxpayers that the same government, asking departments to show the effects of 40% cuts in departmental spending, endorses a service estimated to cost eur 900 million that british taxpayers neither need nor want. those of us who opposed the creation of the eeas out of principle in 2008 still oppose it.
mr president, i welcome the vote on the external action service but, now we have taken this vote, i think it is important that we move away from procedure and structures to actually getting on with the work of the service. it is important that catherine ashton, now that she has a team, puts the core european values into action. human rights have to be her top concern. in particular, she has promised that there is going to be a human rights desk officer in every external office. she needs to deliver on that, but there also has to be a structure for that desk officer to report back to the centre, to make sure we get some joined-up government in terms of the way the european union deals with human rights. at the moment, with many countries, not least china, we have a human rights dialogue that is totally meaningless. the external action service, if it is to be worth the money and effort we are putting into it, has to start delivering on european values and human rights in particular.
mr president, there is something quaint, almost touching, about these debates about creating a european external action service, as though the european union did not already have the full apparatus of a diplomatic service. go to any third country and you will find an eu embassy that towers over any of the member state legations. the european union’s diplomatic corps has already squeezed out the national services. baroness ashton has about twice the salary of william hague, the british foreign secretary, and she controls a budget about 20 times as large as that of the foreign and commonwealth office. in a way, this would not be quite so bad if the common foreign policy of the european union were demonstrably superior to that which is being pursued by the member states, but it is not. what is it doing? it is isolating taiwan and cosying up to the tyrants in beijing, it is refusing to deal with the anti-castro dissidents in cuba, it is cosying up to the ayatollahs in tehran, and it is funnelling money to hamas. i think we could just about manage to do better. we are the fourth-largest military power on the planet and the fifth-largest economy. i think we can run our own foreign policy to suit our own interests!
mr president, from the earliest days of the treaties of paris and rome, the european project has elevated the goal of supranationalism over that of freedom or democracy and, in fairness, it is exporting its ideology. we are effectively maintaining a protectorate in kosovo, as we do in bosnia, for the sole purpose of artificially holding together a multi-ethnic state. i was an early supporter of kosovan independence. it seemed to me a very clear case, where more than 90%of people had voted in a referendum for self-government, that they should be granted it. but we surely ought to extend that principle to national minorities within that territory and to aim at ethnographic frontiers – in other words to allow the serbian population, conveniently clustered close to serbia proper, to do de jure what they are doing de facto and have government from the hands of their own countrymen. there is a conflict between supranationalism and democracy. you can hold a multi-ethnic state together – as the yugoslav federation was and also the ottoman empire, the habsburg empire and the soviet union – but as soon as you give people the vote, they opt for democratic self-determination. we should recognise it.
mr president, i voted against the lyon report because all over europe governments are cutting their budgets. in the united kingdom nurses and teachers face cuts in their pay and pensions. police numbers are being cut and prisoners are being released because we cannot afford to keep them in prison. yet here in the european parliament representatives of the conservative and liberal parties that make up the uk government somehow find it within themselves to vote to retain farming expenditure up to 2013 and beyond 2013 at 2013 levels. i find that entirely unacceptable. i find it wrong that the agricultural community should be ring-fenced in a way that no other section of society is. if it is right for public servants to face reductions in their income, then it is right for others in our society to face the same reductions. the government in the uk and governments across europe are saying we are all in this together. if we are in it together, we all have to feel the pain together.
mr president, i think one can understand why, when the political leaders of europe saw their war-ravaged countries at the end of the second world war, they wanted to promote the idea of food security and the common agricultural policy. however, if you look at the policy 60 years later, let us look at the cost to the eu citizens. let us look at the fact that citizens pay three times: once in tax to pay for the bureaucracy, once in tax to pay for subsidies, and then the higher prices that they have to pay in their shops. surely, rather than talking about the reform of the common agricultural policy, we should be looking to abolish it. scrapping the cap would allow efficient farmers to thrive. it would allow taxpayers to keep more of their own money and deploy that money more usefully, and it would allow consumers lower prices. reform is not enough – it is time to scrap the cap.
mr president, i would like to thank you and all your staff for all your patience. i must say when i first came across the idea of the cfp, i thought the c in the cfp stood for communist, rather than common, fisheries policy. here we actually see the idea of central planning, where central planners decide how much fishermen in each nation can catch and, like communism, it has been a disaster. it has led to a depletion of fishing stocks and ever more fishermen are complaining about the lack of quota they have been given. surely it is time to learn from the lessons of successful fish preservation and conservation. let us look at the property rights-based systems in iceland and in new zealand where, as the previous speaker has said, the coastal communities are looked after because they are given their rights in perpetuity which they can sell on, they can trade, or they can leave to future generations. surely, that is the best answer because it has been a success and has conserved fish, rather than the cfp system which has been a dramatic failure in europe.
in writing. − ukip voted against the alvaro report today because we do not want to give the eu greater power over personal data. this measure will lead to a gross violation of personal privacy. confidential and private financial data belongs to the individual and not to the eu or the european parliament. we are resolutely opposed to the spread of terrorism, but personal confidentiality must be protected where there is no prior suggestion of wrong-doing. if the uk is to enter into an agreement with the us it must be a fully reciprocal arrangement and not the almost one-way-traffic one that the eu has signed up to here. this is a matter for national governments to decide, and not for the european parliament.
in writing. − given the concessions and provisions which the eu has secured regarding the swift agreement on financial data sharing, i am now happy to support this agreement. in particular i am pleased that our group has helped to secure guarantees on the prohibition of random searches, the direct oversight of the programme by an eu official and annual assessments of data retention periods. the continued monitoring of this agreement will be crucial, however, to ensure the terms remain acceptable to this parliament and european citizens.
in writing. − i abstained on the vote on amendment 80 because, while the case for national governments to scrutinise the control of eeas must be guaranteed, this amendment also guaranteed the right of the european parliament to do the same. it is not acceptable to a sovereign nation for a european organisation to scrutinise its foreign service. it is not the business of the ep to do so.
i scríbhinn. − cé gur vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo, is é mo thuairim gur chóir do mhuintir na halbáine beartú más maith leo a bheith páirteach san ae.
in writing. − the ecr group is wholeheartedly in favour of human rights for all, regardless of race, gender, and sexual orientation. we strongly support advancing treatment, prevention, and access to healthcare for all, and promoting awareness and education in the fight against hiv and aids. however, we believe that reproductive rights, which include abortion, is a conscience issue for the individual, and that the proposals within this resolution encroach too far upon the sovereign state’s right to set the agenda for its own healthcare and abortion policy. for these reasons the ecr group has decided to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. − the ecr group is very much in favour of all efforts to minimise the suffering of combatants and civilians and thereby voted in favour of this resolution. however, we take the view that nothing must be done to impair the operational effectiveness and security of our armed forces. we should therefore be clear that ‘cluster munitions’ as defined by the convention on cluster munitions do not include munitions which self destruct or self deactivate: in other words, those that will be used by the responsible armed forces of our nations. i personally disapprove of the language in paragraph 10 which calls on the high representative to make every effort to ‘realize the accession of the union to the ccm’. one of the many unfortunate consequences of the treaty of lisbon is that the eu itself is now able to accede to international conventions. this should be the prerogative of sovereign nations, not an organisation such as the eu, although it is clear that there are those that seek, most regrettably, to turn the eu into a sovereign state.
in writing. − i voted for this report but must stress my continued support depends on the commission now taking account and securing a number of objectives: 1. we must have a cap budget which is capable of providing our farmers with a viable and secure income, and consumers with food security. 2. we must maintain pillar 1 payments, rewarding farmers for work, securing the industry with direct payments. 3. we must define what we mean by a fair distribution of cap and look at production costs. an area based payment which rewards northern ireland less than current levels will destroy an industry already on the edge of viability. regional variation is vital. 4. we must maintain market control measures which control price volatility and ensure profitability.
in writing. − yet again the european parliament has abdicated its responsibilities by failing to reform the cap. i believe this report should be renamed the ‘increase in subsidies to inefficient farmers’ report. why should taxpayers’ money be used to stabilise markets, to keep prices artificially high and to prop up agriculture at difficult economic times when farmers already receive other subsidies from the taxpayer? i, on behalf of the eplp, do not believe that this report goes anywhere near far enough in pushing for ambitious change. it penalises the efficient farmer and props up the inefficient one. it penalises developing countries by calling for a delay in phasing out export refunds in the worst kind of blatant protectionism. it fails to address the major problem of rural sustainability by sticking rigidly to a direct payment system which acts like a brake on the promotion of diversity and the protection of the countryside. we will be voting against this cop-out of a report in the hope that one day efficient farming will be rewarded, countryside stewardship will be recognised as important, consumers will not be ripped off by artificially high prices and the developing world will get a fair deal. that is what cap reform should be about.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on zimbabwe, in particular the case of farai maguwu see minutes..
author. − madam president, since being elected in 1999, i have done my utmost to galvanise opposition from this parliament to the massive catalogue of injustice that mugabe and his henchmen have inflicted on the people of zimbabwe. i have to say this is one area where this house speaks with one voice. today we are discussing the systematic abuse of workers in the diamond fields of zimbabwe by government security forces. zimbabwe is a full member of the kimberley process, the informal body that governs the global trade in rough diamonds and which so far has taken little action to stop such abuses. i call on the kimberley process to consider tough measures against zimbabwe for non-compliance and i join the condemnation of the recent arrest of farai maguwu, a man of conscience, who dared to expose the violence perpetrated by the zimbabwean security forces at chiadzwa. the zimbabwean government must immediately release mr maguwu and, for that matter, all other political prisoners, and we should recall that the right to free speech was one of the main commitments made by all parties in last year’s global political agreement. at the moment the basic medical and food needs of a large section of the zimbabwean population are met by international aid. the zimbabwean government should use the substantial revenue that diamond mining is likely to generate to create a diamond trust fund to kick-start the economy and to provide the health, education and social funding currently provided by international donors. regrettably, zimbabwe still has a long way to go before we can say that its people live in freedom and democracy and under a respected rule of law. it is time for a dramatic change and the eu and the countries of southern africa should be bringing more pressure to bear to bring about good governance in zimbabwe.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, things have improved in zimbabwe but sadly they have not improved enough. we have seen the crackdown on mr maguwu and on other human rights defenders. we have also seen the closure and the arrest of lesbian, gay and bisexual people engaged in hiv prevention and advice. if i stand up and speak as an englishman, they will dismiss it. as europeans, they will dismiss us. but let me say the obvious to the african countries: you know what is happening in zimbabwe is wrong. unless you do something about it collectively, you will lose any moral authority in the continent and in the world. we talk about africa being in your hands, and the future of africa being in your hands. to stand back and do nothing while people are arrested because they seek to expose human rights breaches and to defend ordinary women and men, to do nothing, africa, is to be complicit.
mr president, in the 30 years since mugabe took power, zimbabwe has changed from the breadbasket to the begging bowl of southern africa. the past decade in zimbabwe has been characterised by the systematic and deliberate impoverishment of most of zimbabwe’s 12 million people. however, some of mugabe’s cronies, particularly the military chiefs, have become exceedingly rich through control of expropriated farmland and mineral resources. farai maguwu has bravely sought to expose extrajudicial killings and human rights abuses by the army, which controls many of zimbabwe’s diamond mines. inevitably the wealth from these mines is now bankrolling mugabe’s henchmen. zimbabwe should therefore be refused readmission to the kimberley process. the eu should also seek to tighten and extend targeted sanctions against those in zimbabwe who have enriched themselves by trading in the so-called blood diamonds. of course farai maguwu, who was exercising his fundamental right to free speech, should be released from detention immediately.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on venezuela, in particular the case of maria lourdes afiunisee minutes..
author. − madam president, the sheer demagoguery of venezuela’s president hugo chávez seems to know no bounds. he has now targeted the independence of the judiciary as a next obstacle to his assumption of absolute power. the arrest and imprisonment of judge maría lourdes afiuni mora represents his most audacious and brazen attempt yet to silence dissent and undermine separation of powers and the rule of law. how this judge can hope for a fair trial is beyond me. chávez has already labelled her a bandit, accused her of taking a bribe, and said she should be jailed for 30 years. he has also said that simón bolívar would have had her shot, an extremely inflammatory statement in chávez’s increasingly dictatorial regime and, in my view, a reckless incitement to violence. yet chávez gets away with this behaviour largely because he remains a hysterical critic of the united states and, as such, is popular with many on the left in europe and in this house. this paradox continues to undermine the eu’s collective efforts to expose the alarming trend towards totalitarianism in venezuela. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on north korea see minutes..
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is almost common ground in this parliament that the human rights situation in north korea is dire. therefore i will not expand on what other colleagues have said. the question really is, what can we do about it? just because north korea has decided to be the greta garbo of the international community – ‘we want to be alone’ – it does not mean we should leave them alone. there are 24 million people in north korea who need our assistance. in keeping with the spirit of the resolution, i would like to suggest four things that we could do. firstly, we must continue to provide humanitarian aid, but we must make sure that aid goes to the people and does not in any way prop up the regime. secondly, we should continue to increase our funding for ngos that try to get assistance into north korea and in particular those ngos who try to get information into north korea. provision of a radio in a country where there is no information is actually a vital tool. thirdly, we should ask catherine ashton to appoint a special representative to enter into dialogue with the chinese, the russians and the united nations, to keep the pressure up on north korea. finally, we should do our best to assist refugees. as other colleagues have said, people flee north korea and they are not given the assistance they deserve.
madam president, such is the dprk’s isolation, we can only guess at the human rights violations that are actually taking place there. occasional news leaks come out from defectors and the reality is truly horrific. forced labour camps, kidnappings, arbitrary arrests and torture appear to be the hallmarks of kim jong-il’s tyrannical regime. the death penalty is applied regularly with no regard to the rule of law. we all remain extremely concerned about north korea. not only because of the internal situation but because of all the country’s bellicose and impulsive, even paranoid behaviour internationally. regrettably pyongyang has nuclear weapons and seeks collaboration with other nefarious regimes around the world, such as iran. also the recent sinking of a south korean naval vessel was undoubtedly a deliberate attack by the north. in this respect, the prc needs to assume its responsibility as a member of the un security council by exerting pressure on north korea. but i think a lasting improvement in the human rights situation in north korea will only come about through regime change and democratisation and hopefully through eventual reunification with the democratic south.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 16.35.)
mr president, i completely agree with mr posselt and the tragic thing is that this is a massive own goal. if you had simply encouraged us to be present i, certainly, would have respected your authority and your leadership. i had every intention of being present. if i am present now tomorrow morning, i will certainly not participate in any electronic vote and i think that you have actually damaged the reputation of the european union and indeed of president barroso. this will now be a farce. i hope the bureau actually chucks out this suggestion in an hour's time because if it does not, people will say meps are only there because they are being paid to go and listen to mr barroso. it really is a massive case of shooting yourself in the foot in terms of public relations and i am astonished that the conference of presidents ever made this suggestion. (applause).
madam president, unfortunately my transport here – the train from brussels, on which i know some belgian members of the council were also travelling – was held up for well over an hour. i did telephone ahead to ask for my name to be taken off the list, as i take my speaking time in this chamber very seriously. i tried to telephone ahead and my secretary telephoned and asked my name to be taken off the speaking list. i apologise for drawing this to your attention. i would have spoken had i been here. unfortunately i was unable to do so because of the transport situation, but my name was still left on the list. by the way, i support mr zalba totally.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − madam president, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection adopted an opinion analysing the problems of the food supply chain as a whole. we recommended that farmers should be encouraged to be more efficient and to consolidate their negotiating power, and that ombudsmen should be established in all member states to arbitrate disputes in the supply chain, ensuring that competition between all actors in the supply chain is rigorous but fair, so as to secure the lowest possible food prices for consumers, while also recognising the valuable role that retailers’ own brand labels play in enhancing competition and providing choice and lower prices to consumers. i am disappointed that mr bové and the committee on agriculture took little notice of these suggestions. they may not like it, but markets work, and the freer the market, the better it works, to the benefit of all, especially the consumer. i have to urge all members to vote against this resolution and to support the alternative ecr resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, mr bové’s report is very topical, and i welcome the fact that we have an opportunity to explore these issues regarding the function of europe’s food supply chain in the committee on agriculture and rural development. there are undoubtedly certain problems in europe’s food supply chain. the recent extreme commodity prices and volatility in the market have, in my opinion, undermined food chain stability. it must be acknowledged that farmers are experiencing consistently falling farm-gate prices coupled with ever-increasing operational costs, whilst retailers and consumers continue to enjoy handsome profits and low prices respectively. in this regard i agree with mr bové that there are problems which have to be addressed in order to achieve a balance between fairness and profitability. however, i do not entirely agree with the suggestions in mr bové’s report as to how to rectify this imbalance, and in this regard i have tabled an alternative resolution on behalf of my group. i certainly do not believe that the answer is to introduce yet more european union legislation to enforce mandatory codes of conduct upon farmers. existing eu competition laws are adequate and should be properly enforced. the food supply chain must be allowed to operate in the context of the free market and as far as possible be free of unnecessary burdensome regulation and red tape. greater price transparency in the food supply chain is required, as is an end to unfair practices by retailers, such as stocking fees and unacceptably late payments to producers. on the other hand, farmers need to be encouraged to organise themselves in a more effective manner so that they can increase their bargaining power in relation to large processers and retailers. in my opinion the way forward is to tackle anti-competitive practices and promote voluntary codes of good practice. over the summer we have seen grain prices shoot through the roof, which is only going to make even greater problems in the food supply chain. this volatility in the market is really destroying the market.
madam president, i welcome the work undertaken by mr bové in formulating this report. i also welcome this debate highlighting the need for transparency throughout the food supply chain. transparency is a vital element, but the way in which we tackle large retail organisations whose sole motivation is meeting the needs of their shareholders is equally important. their quest to increase market share and profits has had a negative impact on farmers and, in some cases, processors. currently, the market does not reward farmers for the time and money which they invest in farming to produce high-quality, safe, sustainable food. in northern ireland, the beef industry is under a lot of pressure, and many farms do not break even financially. of course, any intervention must be seen in terms of the cap. without this, the industry would struggle to survive. we in this parliament need to realise the importance of this policy and the benefit that it provides for our farming sectors. the market has not delivered over a number of years for the dairy or beef sector. we have held many debates in this chamber in relation to the dairy sector in particular. if we want our farmers to compete in a free market we must address the problems within the supply chain, third-country imports and the price consumers pay for food, taking into account falling farm-gate prices. the role of speculators and the need to reduce volatility in the market must be addressed immediately. import bans and scaremongering by speculators have fuelled a major hike in cereal prices across the world; this will have a knock-on effect on the food supply chain. europe has a duty to secure its food supply. the way to do this is not to put farmers out of business, or to increase regulation, but to ensure fair prices both at farm-gate and at consumer level.
mr president, we have a dysfunctional market price chain. the imbalance of power between the players in the chain has resulted too often in the supply side not receiving a fair return for their produce and so, while i agree with and support the broad objectives of this report, i cannot agree with the proposals and solutions which the rapporteur suggests. more regulation, mandatory powers and market intervention are not the solution, nor do they reflect the interests of all the stakeholders and, in particular, of 500 million consumers. i do welcome, and believe there is a need for, greater transparency in the industry and i think, to that end, codes of practice and the appointment of ombudsmen would be helpful, but i urge the commissioner here to approach this problem with a light touch. by all means support voluntary initiatives; by all means encourage the supply side to organise themselves into cooperatives in order to get better presence in the market place; and by all means help them to promote and market their products and, overall, encourage all players in the marketplace to form mature, contractual arrangements. all those i welcome, and i suggest they are realistic proposals which the commission can put forward. at the end of the day, however, my message is that you interfere with the workings of the free market at your peril.
mr president, i support many of the proposals in this excellent report. there is no doubt that supermarket chains use their position to squeeze small producers. however, i have one area of concern, and that is any proposal that would undermine own-brands. in the uk, many less well-off consumers purchase these own-brands and remark that the quality is often very good. also - and i saw this recently myself in cross hands business park in wales - there are many small food processing and packaging companies which work for small and large chains producing own-brands. therefore, while it is very important that we should do absolutely everything to ensure the food supply, we should not do anything which would damage less well-off consumers and small companies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, once again this house finds itself discussing the brutal theocratic regime in iran. the iranian authorities mercilessly execute juveniles and young adults who committed crimes as children. women who commit adultery are condemned under the sharia law of hud by stoning or lapidation under the category of so-called crimes of sexual misdemeanours. whereas most countries in the world which still impose the death penalty against adults do so exclusively for aggravated murder, iran’s islamic interpretation of capital crimes is extremely wide and includes homosexuality and adultery. today, i would like to raise the case of ebrahim hamidi, an 18-year-old facing execution for sodomy, even though his accuser has admitted to lying. according to supporters, the boy, who was 16 at the time, neither assaulted the other man, nor is he a homosexual – not that it should matter anyway. his lawyer, mohammed mostafaei, has had to go into hiding because of an arrest warrant. i also raise the case of sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani, the topic of today’s debate. sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani has been accused of adultery, then corruption and indecency for appearing without a headscarf in a foreign journal, even though it was clearly a case of mistaken identity. to add insult to injury, she is now also accused of complicity in an alleged murder to which she was forced to confess when the case came under international scrutiny and pressure was applied on the iranian regime. we should be unswerving in our condemnation of iran’s appalling human rights record, just as we are of its efforts to enrich uranium for nuclear weapons and its determination to destroy the state of israel and crush all democratic dissent. there is also the case of the dual dutch-iranian national, mrs bahrami, who was arrested for belonging to a monarchist organisation. here in this house tonight we appeal to the iranian president to show some clemency, but i have to say i am not very hopeful.
madam president, we have on many occasions discussed the problem of gaza and the economic blockade that is maintained by israel and the misery it causes, but we do not often have a chance to celebrate some of the good things that are coming out of gaza. during the course of the summer, two world records were set by children there. seven thousand children broke the world record for bouncing basketballs and a similar number of children broke the world record for flying kites. this is all thanks to unrwa and the summer camp programme they have organised there for young children, giving them something to do in circumstances which are very dire indeed. i hope the house will congratulate the children on an achievement and be reminded that half the population of gaza is under 18. they have not voted for anyone. they are not responsible for any of the problems or the conflicts of that area. they are just looking for a normal life and for some hopes and aspirations for the future. i also thank unrwa and its organisation, together with all the palestinians who work for it, for making these summer camps possible.
madam president, every member state in the eu faces an age of austerity. across europe, radical cuts to public expenditure are being made, yet taxpayers are compelled to fund the increased expenditure of the european union itself, year after year. we must ask ourselves why this parliament’s highest priority is not to protect the taxpayers we represent and to reduce the eu’s expenditure. it is absurd that while spending on law and order and education, and on other vital public services, are cut at home, no such discipline is shown by the eu. the salaries of many public sector workers have been frozen, or even cut – i wonder how much solidarity the commissioner sitting there will show them. if member states are cutting expenditure by 20% in real terms over the next five years, we should demand that the eu do the same. this parliament should demand that the commission reduce its expenditure and refund the unspent money to the member states.
madam president, as an mep for wales, it was with great concern that i heard about commissioner lewandowski's plan to do away with the british rebate. according to mr lewandowski, the rebate is no longer justified as the eu budget has substantially changed and the rebate has lost its original justification. mr lewandowski, you refer to yourself as an honest broker, so please explain to me why the british are constantly being asked to pay more. where is the honesty here? as you may be aware, british taxpayers will end up contributing some gbp 10 billion to prop up the euro as part of the international monetary fund. in addition we are asked to financially support greece, latvia and hungary, which are struggling with economic difficulties. it seems britain will be forced to pay around gbp 23 billion to bolster the euro. what else? how much more will we have to pay? the eu is asking national governments to cut their public spending and yet perversely the eu budget for the next period is increasing. how long will we have to pay for the eu and the euro? what kind of benefit is there to british people for being part of this false union? (the president cut off the speaker).
madam president, as member states slash public spending, i want to stress the role the eu can play in helping us achieve economic recovery. the eu has many important funds at its disposal, including fp7, rural development plan funding and the structural funds. a recent example of how these funds are being put to good use is the announcement today of a gbp 107 million distributor road in port talbot in wales. over gbp 50 million of this funding comes from the erdf. this important project will open up a whole new area of the town for future regeneration and i want particularly to congratulate neath port talbot county borough council and, of course, the welsh assembly. we need to ensure that this type of funding continues through 2011 and into the new financial perspective, post-2013.
thank you, madam president, for giving me the opportunity to briefly make a contribution. the european globalisation adjustment fund is vitally important and should be supported and protected. the needs of working people who find themselves thrown out of work through no fault of their own require support. i was recently contacted by a constituent who was interested in this particular fund, and it is a reflection on the new government in the united kingdom that the conservative-liberal coalition is calling for an end to the fund. this reckless approach to a fund which actually helps working people is something that i hope they will go back and take another look at. the need for us to support and protect, and also to make adjustments where necessary, is vitally important. i support this fund. i want to see it protected and supported, and i would also like to make sure that it is used in the most appropriate manner.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. i think she has drawn up an excellent report. as we all know, none of us in this room is getting any younger and the need for us to view ageing positively is vitally important. it is a miracle that we are living longer and healthier lives and we should be celebrating this. however, for many women this is not the case and this report addresses this. in 2010, it is mostly women who bear the majority of caring responsibilities in a family, whether it be for children or for elderly relatives and, as we know from this report, this results in women living in poverty in their old age, at a time when they should have dignity and respect, as our rapporteur has said. this report is also important because it introduces the issue of elder abuse, something which we in this house all condemn, and something which needs to be given a higher political priority. we should also require best practice to be shared in connection with active ageing, the university of the third age, and the ways that we can use new technologies. i would like to thank the rapporteur and i hope we will all campaign to make ageing as active and as dignified as possible.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this grand occasion, mr barroso’s state of the union speech, does not quite put him on a par with president obama. there is one fundamental difference, mr barroso: president obama is elected, and you are not. forty-eight million people watched his address, and here in the european parliament we even have to beg meps to turn up to listen to you. you completely ignored the state of the union. you said how you felt things were going, you pointed your way forwards. however, eurobarometer, the commission’s own polling organisation, tells us the truth. it tells us that in the last six months there has been a dramatic drop in confidence as regards people’s belief in even belonging to the union: a 10% drop in germany; a 17% drop in greece and a 9% drop in portugal. less than half of eu citizens think that being a member of the club is worth it. even more revealing is that in your own country of portugal over the last six months a further one in four people have lost total faith in eu institutions. that, mr barroso, is hardly an endorsement of success or belief, and yet from most people today there seems to be such great self-satisfaction. well, do not be too satisfied, because the people have worked it out for themselves: the real state of the union is that it is increasingly loathed and despised. and yet some claim that this is because they want more europe! mr verhofstadt said that people want more common policies. no! the evidence is clear. (interjections from the floor)interesting, mr president! when i barrack people i get threatened with fines. but never mind. (applause from the efd group)the evidence shows that the more common policies there are, the less people like it. people have recognised the devastation of the common fisheries policy; they have recognised the inequality of the common agricultural policy; the lost business opportunities of a common commercial policy; and of course now the big one: the common currency, this ill-conceived political attempt to force people into a monetary union without ever asking any of them whether they wanted to be there. well, it is perfectly clear that this currency does not suit germany and it does not suit greece. one is now trapped inside an economic prison. you can pretend the crisis has gone away, but it has not, because the bond spreads are now 8% on five and ten-year bonds. you can smile, mr schulz, but you know nothing of financial markets or how these things work. and, in your own country, well, why should the german taxpayer increasingly pick up the bill? this form of government is not working, and yet what we heard today is that we are going to have a common defence policy and a common foreign policy. the other reason why these polls are where they are is that people do not respect you because you cheated to get the lisbon treaty through. we were told it would simplify everything, that we would know where we stand. well we do not. who is in charge of this eu? is it you, mr barroso? is it my old friend herman van rompuy? is it the belgian presidency? that really is good stuff! you still cannot form a government in your own country and yet you have the presidency of the european union! whichever way you look at it, the whole thing is a bit of a dog’s dinner really. the eu has never had so much power, and yet it has never been so unpopular. but not satisfied with the eur 2.4 billion a year that is now being spent on eu propaganda, you want the overall budget to increase by 6%, and we understand that you personally are to have a full-time tv crew to traipse round with you, new press officers, new webmasters. you are not analysing why this is going wrong, mr barroso, you simply do not get it. (applause from the efd group)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the row over the roma in france is, of course, caused directly by failing european union policies. it was a huge mistake to allow bulgaria and romania to join the european union whilst there were millions of roma in those countries being heavily discriminated against. it is no wonder that, now they are part of the union, they are seeking to move elsewhere. that goes for everything does it not? every single one of the policies fails and leads to a problem – whether it is this or whether it is the euro – and all the way through we see a fanatical political ambition to create a united states of europe, regardless of the consequences. at no time has any of this been endorsed by the voting public. that, mr barroso, is the true state of the union.
mr president, as the president of the commission acknowledges, belief that the eu is a good thing has fallen substantially, and many people believe their member states have not benefited from membership. we should be worried, but i fear that the commission is under pressure from those who believe that the solution to every crisis is more europe. indeed, some argue that polls demonstrate support for more european economic governance. however, the public does not want more europe; it wants a better europe and a europe that adds value with a light touch. the european union has been delegated by its member states with key functions that need to be achieved, such as completing the internal market and furthering international free trade. those should be priorities, and that is why we support the principles of president barroso’s centre-piece initiative – europe 2020 – and the single market relaunch, which members of my own group have been so involved with.
mr president, mr barroso has spoken of sustainable growth. in fact we have seen negative growth. he spoke of increasing the proportion of people in employment, whereas that proportion has fallen. he speaks of increasing the competitiveness of european goods and services. however, the eu, like each of its member states, is embracing globalism and voluntarily accepting a deluge of cheap goods that are emerging from low-wage countries in the third world. the only way in which we can compete with such countries is to drive down our wage rates to their levels. just in case our employers and employees are not getting the message, we are filling up our countries with third-world workers who are turning large areas of our countries into parts of the third world with below-minimum wage rates and unsatisfactory working conditions. we are making workers in the commercial services sector redundant and outsourcing their jobs to the third world. the individual nation states of europe, and the european union on behalf of the continent as a whole, are committing identity, and economic, suicide.
madam president, the president of the commission talked about sustainable growth and a target of 75% employment across the eu, a goal we would all agree with. yet across the eu drastic cuts in public services are adding to the numbers of unemployed, taking money out of the economy and reducing essential services. how does this help the economy and avoid a job crisis? it really does not make sense. it puts the recovery at risk, a risk that is being taken, by the way, in my own country, the uk, by the cameron government. maintaining investment in areas the eu has a potential to lead in, such as renewable energies and high-speed rail, will help create the europe we want, it will help create the europe we need, and it will help secure the economy. finally, we need to guarantee overseas aid budgets, which are actually seen by some as an easy target. those countries that fall short, far short, of their target pledges, should be strongly encouraged to rethink this disastrous policy.
in writing. – whilst i welcome the president of the commission addressing parliament, i must criticise his stance on the plight of the roma in france. omitting to mention the french administration's decision was wrong.
mr president, i am sure you will remember the wonderful scene in the film of dr zhivago, where the bourgeoisie and the aristocrats are enjoying champagne in the warm golden light of a restaurant, while outside in the surrounding murk the people riot. listening to our debate this morning i was reminded not for the first time of that cinematic moment. we have just had a eurobarometer poll showing that confidence in the eu is at an all-time low. a minority of eu citizens now believe that the european union is beneficial. but we heard from mr verhofstadt, mr daul and others that this is because we are not doing enough, because they want europe to be doing more. we heard from the president of the commission that it was all the fault of the nation states. well, i suppose it is human nature not to seek to blame yourself for your own unpopularity, but it would have been nice to have had some indication that this crisis might have to do with the euro, with the bail-outs, with the sheer inequity of the shoving around of public money with the high-handedness with which we dismiss election results. allow me to close with the words of edmund burke, which seem unusually apt to our present discontents: ‘because half a dozen grasshoppers concealed beneath a fern make the field ring with their importunate chink, while thousands of great cattle take their repose beneath the shadow of a tree and are silent, pray do not imagine that those who make all the noise are the only inhabitants of the field’.
mr president, this report and resolution that we have voted on today on new media and journalism was supposed to look at the ways the new media are changing journalism. instead, it has in reality become a wish list for meps wishing to improve their column inches and who desire to manipulate how much the eu is reported on. proposals include european training programmes for journalists, more money for parliament's information offices and yet more money for eu communication policy. i believe in freedom of speech. i also believe in independent credible journalism. forcing and funding journalists and public independent broadcasters to cover eu matters in order to promote the european ideal is blatant propaganda, and this is why i voted against this report and resolution. in deference to a vanity exercise, an opportunity has been missed to look at ways to encourage democratic engagement through social media.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which correctly notes the importance of switzerland and the eea to eu trade matters. the report explicitly states that this house fully respects the causes of the specific nature of the relations between switzerland and the eu. i would go further and urge full respect for the citizens of all four efta countries in deciding their own countries’ relationships with the eu. an area of mutual interest to eu and eea countries which falls outwith the scope of internal market agreements is fisheries. in recent months iceland has unilaterally set a quota for mackerel stocks which may threaten the very sustainability of that fishery. whilst i strongly support the concept of national control of fisheries, this must operate on the basis of regional cooperation and international law. i urge the icelandic government to come to the table with their neighbours in order to achieve a mutually satisfactory and responsible resolution of this situation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which will protect the freedom of movement for workers within the eu. the internal market relies upon skilled workers being able to transfer between member states without hindrance, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which proposes the establishment of common measures to ensure effective action against counterfeiting in the eurozone countries. there are currently no harmonising rules for the authentication and withdrawal of euro coins not fit for circulation. such rules would help to protect consumers from counterfeit coins, which is why i have given this report my support.
in writing. − it is appropriate that we are voting on this report today, the day that the scottish government announced that scotland is halfway to reaching its 2020 targets for greenhouse gas emissions. a recent report highlighted that offshore wind power alone could provide some 48 000 jobs in scotland, and the scottish government is committed to being at the forefront of eu efforts to create new jobs in a sustainable economy. it is unfortunate that the government in westminster continues to discriminate against scottish energy suppliers through punitive grid charges, thereby holding back development of eu-wide significance. i voted in favour of the calls made in this report, and urge the uk government to take heed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the development of a european job strategy for a sustainable economy. it also backs calls within the council for a review of subsidies that have an adverse environmental impact, and stresses the need for decent work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which recommends greater cooperation and sharing of best practice, along with advice on changes which must be made post-lisbon. the report provides promising reading, reporting the average transposition deficit at 0.7%, which is roughly on a par with the eu member states.
in writing. − i support this report in principle, because i believe it takes issue with the most important problems within the food supply chain. we must deal with the reality that currently within the system we have a distortion of power. retailers have too much power, resulting in primary producers acting as price takers and not price makers. while i agree with the principles of this report, i have severe reservations with the solutions put forward by the rapporteur. i do not believe in over-regulation. yet more red tape will only serve to put added pressure and cause extra expense within the current system. i also disagree with an eu-wide body to monitor all market transactions. the cost associated with such a body would be prohibitive. a supermarket ombudsman at member state level can carry out this role. while i agree with some of the ecr amendments, i am wary that a rapid to move to a freer market would be detrimental to producers in my constituency. their reluctance to tackle the power of retailers in the supply chain will do nothing to ensure continued food supply from primary producers.
in writing. − i fully support mr portas’ report on the funding and functioning of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it deals with many issues which include improving the efficiency of the application process as well as mobilising the fund faster to provide aid for those who have lost their jobs. although the uk does not currently bid for money from the fund (due to its rebate) we can see how useful this fund has been for other member states during difficult economic times. i am in favour of creating a permanent fund post-2013 in order to help those who have been affected by the changes brought about by globalisation or the financial and economic crisis, and believe that it is vital for the commission to examine the possibility of establishing the egf as an independent fund, with its own payment and commitment appropriations, under the new multiannual financial framework (2013-2020).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which recommends that the validity of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) be extended until 2013 and strongly suggests that it be made permanent after that. the egf provides financial support for the re-training of workers affected by redundancy. this is particularly necessary now because of the deep economic crisis facing europe, which is why i supported this report – unlike my conservative and liberal colleagues who want to withdraw this funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which aims to evaluate social integration policies within the eu for women belonging to ethnic minority groups. this would allow for specific measures to be taken to target gender equality among ethnic minorities and ensure that existing anti-discrimination legislation is fully implemented in member states.
in writing. − the ecr group is wholeheartedly supportive of the principle of equal treatment for all and this, of course, includes women who belong to an ethnic minority group. however, we are opposed to this report for several, very specific reasons. firstly, we are opposed to any further widening of eu funding for social affairs. across europe, national governments are making public sector cuts and the ecr group believes that the eu should do the same. secondly, we are fundamentally opposed to any move in the direction of a common immigration and asylum policy and we feel that parts of this report address immigration and asylum policies which are best made and executed at national level. thirdly, issues such as childcare, education and health care, including sexual and reproductive health care, remain the competences of the member state and not the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which seeks to protect the fundamental rights of elderly women within the eu. older women face a greater risk of ending up in poverty as a result of lower accumulations of pensions and of time taken out of work for caring duties. this is why i have given this report my support.
in writing. − whilst this report from the committee on women's rights and gender equality draws attention to the practical difficulties facing women who care for europe's ageing population, the ecr group cannot support the report as we believe it tackles matters which are not the responsibility of the eu but of our own national parliaments. in particular, we are opposed to any eu intervention in matters concerning health care, education and training, pensions, the retirement age and nursing homes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which proposes ways to increase citizens´ awareness of eu policies and decision-making through use of the various media tools available. as an elected representative, i believe that it is important for members of the public to be able to see how eu politics affects their daily lives, which is why i have supported this report.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as a former uk immigration minister, i and my group are wholeheartedly supportive of providing equal rights and equal opportunities for all people. i agree with my group’s chairman, michał kamiński, who this morning said that this continent must never revive the ghosts of past nationalism, and that the eu is a zone of freedom and tolerance is its greatest achievement. we should be proud of that but we must never fool ourselves into believing that we do not still have massive problems. undoubtedly this issue requires debate, consideration and action on how we treat minority groups, how we can better integrate the roma people, and proportionality between the rights and the powers of national governments and the eu. however, i also believe that our union is built on the rule of law. whilst it is a parliamentarian’s right to raise justified concerns in this debate, i would also ask us to wait until the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, actually makes a formal ruling on this issue. then we can make informed judgements based on all of the facts and decide how to focus on better integration of the roma people within europe, rather than pre-emptively condemning a fellow member state.
mr president, france has decided that it does not want vast numbers of uninvited roma turning up on its doorstep, but they were invited. this whole problem is a direct result of directive 2004/38/ec on the right to free movement of eu citizens. any eu citizen has the right to live in another eu state. like so much eu legislation, it has turned out to be an absurdity in practice. we do not just get highly educated and skilled people with a strong work ethic coming from another member state. it means we have no protection against the entry of socially undesirable and criminal elements. french governments have always been enthusiastic about the european union. they are now finding out the hard way that they cannot have the eu without the roma. the french now want to join the italians and say ‘arrivederci roma’. well, they cannot. it is better to join with the uk independence party and say ‘goodbye european union’.
mr president, vice-president reding has certainly convinced me that she will take this question seriously, and that she is working hard on it with her colleagues. however, like others, i am impatient to hear what the commission’s judgment is on whether france has broken eu law or not. i hope we will hear that very soon, and whether the commission intends to take infringement proceedings against france – and indeed any other member states that deserve it – for breach of the free movement directive. as others have said, i accept that there are restrictions on residence rights under the free movement directive, and indeed under the – regrettable – transitional arrangements for accession, but we want to hear from the commission precisely whether these have been breached. one aspect that has not been mentioned elsewhere – and this is a very sensitive question, and which allows the french government to wriggle out of the question of ethnic discrimination – is that france does not collect ethnic data. so when minister lalouche said at a meeting i attended that one in four young people arrested in france were of romanian nationality he was absolving himself from saying that they were roma. (the president cut off the speaker).
mr president, the critical issues for this parliament are the core issues of poverty and social exclusion of the roma, and we will take our responsibilities seriously. but no one is in any doubt that the reason we are here today in this chamber, and that the commissioners are here present with the council, is to find out what the commission, the guardian of the treaties, thinks of the french collective action – as mrs reding said – against the roma. now if it is the case that she wishes to delay and tell us at a later stage, that is fine. but we are here to understand, commissioner, not just whether you will enforce your decision, but what that decision is. if there is a weak and confused response as to whether there has been collective punishment – the words that you used – or whether there has been action on a case-by-case basis, which is required under the eu free movement directives, then we need to know this. we look to you for that answer. when we have that answer we will be in a position where we understand that other countries may not use as a precedent the collective punishment of an ethnic minority, one of the biggest in the european union. this is a critical factor for us today and i ask you to be more specific, to be a guardian of the treaties. only then can we move on to the roma strategy which everyone in this parliament seems to want to have, which is to cure the core problems that lead to the export of poverty and social exclusion issues across the eu. but today we are talking about expulsions. we believe they are illegal and we believe you have delivered a weak and confused response. be more specific. be a guardian of the treaties.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, as has been said, what is happening in pakistan at the moment is a real tragedy and will require long-term commitment on behalf of the people of pakistan and its democratically-elected government for some time to come. i very much welcome the commissioner’s response, and indeed her longer-term perspective, not least the link to climate resilience. i share the concerns she has voiced about long-term funding for such disasters. i think we would all urge the international community to intensify its response. we would certainly like to welcome india’s increased contribution to the un fund, because that sends an important political signal. in our view the international community could go further. it could release more of pakistan’s own money by taking action to relieve pakistan’s international debt, much of which was incurred under military regimes. in 2008 pakistan spent usd 3 billion on debt repayment: this dwarfs the international aid effort. france and germany are important bilateral donors. i think we should look with some concern at the repayment terms that may be on offer for the loans that are currently being put forward. i would also like to mention that i think it is important to have a similar response from within pakistan, not least from rich landowners who could, for example, offer some sort of rent relief for poor tenant farmers who are not going to be able to pay their rent for some time to come.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, can i first of all welcome the remarks that the commissioner made in committee and also here today. our response – led by the commissioner – has indeed been commendable, both at an eu level and from the member states acting on a bilateral basis. the uk certainly did all that it could. it is very saddening to note that, whilst the people of pakistan were facing this catastrophe, their president was enjoying the best and finest that europe had to offer. whilst he was doing that we started to mobilise and stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of pakistan. i am very proud that we did that. as the civil infrastructure crumbled it was the military that had to step in. the fact that we have been working to provide the emergency relief required is very commendable. however, the emergency is still underway as we meet here today. whilst it is ongoing we are doing what we can, but we must start to plan our response for the medium to long term. the unprecedented scale of the floods warrants an unprecedented international response. we must start to rebuild pakistan, but we must do this in such a way that the people of pakistan can be seen to be doing it, or truly unimaginable consequences might unfold. we have a development agenda, but we must also tie into this a trade-related agenda to allow the people of pakistan to rebuild their country themselves as well. colleagues, i am asking really for us to be ambitious and to come forward with an eu plan – rather like the marshal plan which helped to rebuild parts of europe. that is what is required. that is the scale of the challenge. please rise to it.
madam president, the only guideline is for the eu to stop interfering. the working time directive is a disincentive to work. why cannot you let people work overtime when they want to? please do not tell me that this is to protect workers from exploitation, when the eu’s puppet court, the ecj, has ruled in favour of companies exploiting groups of workers by paying them less than a minimum wage in no less than four countries. are you aware that more than a fifth of newly qualified junior doctors in the uk are turned down because the wtd means they lack experience and that more are dropping out of training for the same reason? this house passed a report on independent truck drivers recently, which will result in many of them packing it in. in voting today, meps have approved a paragraph in the bové report – which will add a massive reporting burden to smes – hours after president barroso had complained that smes were being strangled by red tape. the eu is the problem, not the answer, as the people of europe are beginning to realise.
mr president, i welcome this report. i think there is much to commend it. as a strong believer in cohesion policy and structural funds, i particularly welcome the comments about how crucial these funds are in helping people back to work. in south wales, for example, i have seen the european social fund going to provide schemes for skills training and many other schemes to help people back into work. mr andor might not like my saying this, but that is one of the reasons why i believe that the european social fund should remain with regional development and not go to employment. that is a discussion we will no doubt have sometime in the future. i also welcome the recognition in the report of the importance of social partners. of course, when i say social partners, i mean trade unions, but i also mean local authorities and regional government as well. these are big deliverers of services, but they are also big employers and therefore should be included in any social dialogue on employment policies.
thank you for the observation. mr clark is not here but i am sure he will pick up your remarks. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday 8 september 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the presentation by the council of its position on the draft general budget – 2011 financial year. this constitutes a series of statements. there is no catch-the-eye procedure. i would like to apologise to colleagues who have been waiting for this item for some time. there were some very long speeches this afternoon.
that concludes the item.
the next item is question time (b7-0454/2010). the following questions are addressed to the commission. i apologise in advance. once again we are running late but we are going to have to bring this to a close at 20.30. i expect to do the priority questions starting with the question from mr paleckis, then mr aylward, ms mcguinness, and then the questions to mr andor, mr piebalgs and ms hedegaard. one, at least, may be only one question each. i am sorry about this.
we may get there. when i took the chair an hour ago we were running one hour late and we are now running half an hour late. i am trying to speed things up, i am hoping to get to your question, but it is no 2 to the commissioner, that is all i am saying.
question 16 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0356/10) subject: legislation on radioactive waste management and storage although 15 of the 27 european union member states have nuclear power plants, there are currently very few projects to set up long-term repositories for radioactive waste. while the eu recognises that the structure of energy supply is a matter for member states, it is creating the most advanced legal framework for nuclear safety, security and the management of radioactive waste. this law is being proposed under the euratom treaty, in line with which the eu establishes and regulates basic safety standards. it has been announced that the commission will propose european legislation on radioactive waste management in the second half of 2010. a public consultation on such a legislative proposal is currently being carried out. what stage have these consultations reached, and what results have been achieved? what specific environmental requirements will this directive seek to provide? will there be specific requirements for those countries that have already closed their nuclear power plants and have chosen different ways of managing waste – to build their own repositories or to repay suppliers in line with existing agreements?
mr de gucht is covering for mr oettinger. you may reply to those supplementaries if you are able to.
question 17 by liam aylward (h-0374/10) subject: european smes, international trade and child labour what can the commission do to ensure that european smes are not involved in child labour practices, either directly or indirectly, when purchasing products from developing nations? does the commission have any mechanism in place in order to monitor european trade and products that are linked to child labour in developing nations? what provisions are in place in order to tackle this issue?
question 18 by mairead mcguinness (h-0376/10) subject: possible impact of enhanced economic policy coordination can the commission provide information and clarification on the possible implications of corrective action, namely sanctions, as outlined in the communication on enhancing economic policy coordination for stability, growth and jobs and tools for stronger eu economic governance (com(2010)0367)? should member states exceed the requirements laid out in the stability and growth pact, payments from the eu to national governments could be suspended. how can the commission ensure that this action would not adversely affect citizens, for example farmers, if such sanctions are imposed? how can the commission ensure that national governments will be in a position to respect their commitment to farmers and other recipients of eu supports, especially at a time when many member state finances are under significant strain in the current economic climate? in the event that member states are unable to meet this need, what does the commission propose should happen?
as i said earlier, we are under a lot of pressure this evening for time and i am trying to get through as many questions as possible. i would be grateful to you all for your brevity.
question 20 by georgios papanikolaou (h-0363/10) subject: impact on young people of new conditions of employment the changes in conditions of employment promoted by the greek government will make it possible to hire entrants to the job market up to 21 years of age at 80% and young people between 21and 25 years of age at 85% of the minimum wage, as set in each case by the general national collective employment convention. in view of the above, will the commission say:in the context of the negotiations on the support mechanism for greece and the relevant memorandum, has it asked the greek government, either officially or unofficially, to cut the wage entitlements of entrants to the job market? does it consider that practices of this kind by member states are in line with the strategic objectives of europe 2020 which seek to combat poverty and social inequality?
mr crowley, your question will be answered in writing in full. as the author is not present, question 22 lapses.
mr gallagher has now arrived. commissioner, would you mind answering question 22 by mr gallagher on the forthcoming eu-africa summit?
question 26 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0354/10) subject: measures to fight drought and desertification climate change is affecting the member states in dramatic fashion, with many of them now having to handle long heatwaves, prolonged drought and large-scale desertification. this seriously affects agriculture and economic development in the regions concerned. the eu needs its southern and eastern member states to develop comprehensive irrigation systems and reforestation programmes if desertification and drought are to be fought effectively. can the commission state what measures for adaptation to climate change it will propose in order to support the eu's southern and eastern member states in their fight against drought and desertification? can the commission also provide information on the funding sources for each measure proposed by it?
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question 27 by karl-heinz florenz (h-0364/10) subject: preparation of the conference of the parties to the framework convention on climate change (cop 16) the next conference of the parties to the framework convention on climate change takes place in mexico from 29 november to 10 december 2010. how does the commission assess the chances of reaching a comprehensive climate agreement? what outcome is the commission seeking, specifically with regard to issues such as financing, deforestation, the further development of emissions trading and adaptation? what specific preparations are being made by the commission, not least in its exchanges with key players such as the usa and china? how will the commission ensure that representatives of the european parliament are also involved in an appropriate manner? and question 28 by andres perello rodriguez (h-0371/10) subject: eu contribution to the success of the cancún summit yvo de boer, the former un climate change chief, stated in bonn that it was ‘extremely unlikely’ that the forthcoming cancún summit would produce a binding agreement regulating greenhouse gas emissions from 2012 onwards, when the kyoto protocol expires. other political figures also attending the bonn meeting, such as the mexican deputy environment minister, fernando tudela, warned that the negotiation process had to be modernised and revitalised if cancún was to be a success. does the commission think that we still have time to ensure that the cancún summit is not merely an interim step, but produces a genuine, binding agreement? how can the eu contribute to making the negotiations currently taking place more flexible, practical and efficient with a view to reaching as final a compromise text as possible for the cop 16?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.30 and resumed at 21.00)
madam president, the difficulty we have with press freedom is largely a financial one. where it is felt the press is controlled, it is often due to who owns and funds the media. the digital age has seen profits fall rapidly and many companies thrown into financial turmoil, but how can any political body fund the industry without crossing the line of impartiality? a leaked letter to president barroso from the new commissioner for communications, viviane reding, revealed that in order to boost his image, the president will have a photographer and a tv producer on hand 24 hours a day. not only that, but journalists will be paid to follow the commission president on foreign trips. eight staff will even be hired to monitor the blogosphere for criticism and quash whatever unwelcome opinions are found. in 2009 over eur 8 million was spent on entertaining and training journalists, including eur 350 000 on coercing irish journalists during the referendum using so-called lisbon treaty seminars. eur 700 000 has been spent on journalism competitions and at least eur 7 000 on cocktail parties. there is clearly a very fine line between funding the information industry and bribing it. what is not acceptable is for the commission to launch an attack on state-owned publications when they themselves throw taxpayers’ money at engineering the media to spin us all a web of lies.
madam president, i shall try to keep to the time. i am pleased that the commission acknowledges the important role of a free press in maintaining democratic integrity. however, all too often the political elite adopt an attitude that words mean what they say they mean. this is one of those cases. today in this parliament an article in the løkkegaard report called for correspondence from the brussels press corps to be organised in order to cover eu news in a more instructive manner. journalists are there to inform, not to instruct. more than anything else, journalists value their independence. if they do not have independence, they cannot be considered free. the commission already exerts too much control over the media in brussels through financial incentive and through coercion. europarl tv is talked about here as if it had some news value: it does not. its content is nothing more than press releases with moving pictures. this is why nobody watches it. the løkkegaard report was actually voted through this parliament today, requiring eu studies to be incorporated into school curricula. any journalist would tell you there is no place for propaganda in free and independent media. the ngo reporters without frontiers has already identified italy, bulgaria and slovakia as having notable problems with their press freedoms. france and spain also failed to meet the standards that free citizens should have the right to expect. in the uk we already have a press that can be considered to be free, even if they use ‘allegedly’ a lot. as we have seen here today, the eu seems to be moving in the opposite direction.
madam president, there was a curious lack of passion, i thought, about the commissioner’s opening remarks. of course the commission is the guardian of the treaty and all its principles, but frankly you would hardly have guessed that from what she said. in this debate we have heard examples from across europe of bad practice. in my country, the uk, we have excessive media ownership by news international, by rupert murdoch. if a politician seeks power they do not tend to rock the boat by challenging that too much. and as for italy: when a prime minister owns a substantial part of the media, if that is not abuse of the principles of the treaty, then what is? how can we condemn bad practice elsewhere if we do not ensure that our own practices are as good as they possibly can be? now of course there are limits to the commission’s powers, to its legal competence. but commissioner, you are not a bureaucrat, you are a leader; you have a voice, and this is a time when that voice can be raised to embarrass people, to force change, to act for freedom.
author. − madam president, commissioner reding’s record on non-discrimination is exemplary, and the two testimonies she has heard tonight are intensely interesting. like mr de jong, i am a gay man in a civil partnership, in a relationship of 27 years that has only been recognised by the state for five years. as was said earlier, if i were to have an accident whilst on holiday in italy, my partner would not even be given the basic right to decide whether, in such a case, i should be on a life support machine or not. it is these basic elements that are so private and personal of which we are deprived on the sole basis of prejudice. there are those who say that mutual recognition and respect for civil laws and civil rights acquired in another country, and recognised and enforced in another member state, would undermine a member state’s competence on marriage. that is absolute nonsense. i am afraid it is an argument proposed by those who wish to have any excuse not to achieve equality. there are five member states that recognise same-sex marriage. there are 12 that recognise civil partnerships. ten of the 27 remain outside that brilliant ring of tolerance, equality and understanding. commissioner, it is your role – and i know it is a role you will take up – to push them into that ring of tolerance and understanding. then we really will have an area of freedom, security and justice, not just for some, but for all, regardless of one’s sexual orientation, gender or gender identity. in politics it is so easy to follow public opinion. the hardest and most difficult thing to do is to lead it and to face down prejudice. if this house does the right thing and you, commissioner, do the right thing, then we really can change the union and change people’s lives for the better, not only for ourselves, but for generations to come. the record of your hearing is unequivocal. you said that you believed that rights acquired in one country should be respected in another. i have the quote here, but i know i do not need to remind you of it because you are a woman of principle who will stand up against persecution and discrimination.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, some of the same features are in this debate as were in our earlier debate today on the expulsion of the roma from france and, previously, from italy. we have splendid principles in the treaties and legal instruments of the eu – non-discrimination, equality, rights of minorities, human dignity, the right to family life and the right of free movement – but their implementation in the member states leaves much to be desired and falls short of these values and commitments. the problem is that the commission, which is the watchdog and guardian of the treaties, all too often hesitates to pursue member states for even quite serious and very serious breaches. i am privileged to represent london, and therefore – i would say – one of the most progressive regions in europe when it comes to gay rights. i am not claiming that my city, or even my country, is free of homophobic prejudice or discrimination – we do not yet have gay marriage – but we have made a lot of progress. but when my constituents with civil partnerships travel or move abroad within the eu, they lose their rights and legal status, as others have mentioned: inheritance, tax, social benefits, even the right to be treated as a partner are lost. but the whole programme in an area that i work in a lot, which is european criminal justice, is rooted in the principle of cross-border mutual recognition – recognising and implementing legal decisions made in other eu member states. so why not legal decisions on partnership or marriage, which is even more precise than the area of jam and widgets that my friend sophie was talking about? i therefore do not agree with vice-president reding, with respect, that the free movement directive does not need amending. it does need amending, to remove the semi-discretion that member states have to discriminate against couples where they are same-sex partners or spouses moving from another member state. it therefore seems to me that we need action from the commission. we have got to a sort of critical mass, even if one accepts this argument that you have to wait for social change. we have a critical mass of member states which legally recognise same-sex couples. it is time to introduce uniform treatment of those same-sex partners moving to another european country. in fact, a recent interesting judgment of the european court of human rights suggested it might not be too long before that court – the court of the council of europe – insists that marriage be open to same-sex couples. it would be richly ironic if the eu had failed to act and we found ourselves upstaged by the council of europe when we claim to be the gold standard in our own self-definition compared to the council of europe.
madam president, i would just like to ask mrs záborská whether she can accept that we are not talking about forcing member states to change their marriage laws, but about obliging them to recognise the product of other countries’ laws on partnership and marriage. there is a fundamental difference. this is about implementing the principle of mutual recognition. i would ask other speakers who have expressed somewhat similar sentiments to accept that we do now have a well-developed mutual recognition principle in many areas of eu life and competence. that is the route we should take in the area of non-discrimination and free movement. it is not about forcing member states to change their own marriage laws, but simply to recognise other countries’ marriage laws.
madam president, i was not expecting to speak tonight. i had no intention of speaking and i do not have a prepared speech, but i thought i would say a few words. as an openly gay person, i think it is the right of everyone to love who they want to love and to live the life they wish to live, whoever that may be with. what has been confirmed here tonight is how right i was to leave the efd group and their fascistic views – for example, the 19th century views of their italian group. i remind this chamber that their mayor of treviso said that homosexuals should be ethnically cleansed from their city. as an openly gay person and as an openly gay politician, i have sometimes been a bit afraid to campaign for what i believe in with regard to equal rights for gay people. this is because i do not wish to be typecast. i wish to campaign for what i believe in. that surely is a discrimination that still affects our member states. of course if people join the european union – there have been many referenda where people have acceded to the european union – they have therefore acceded to these rights. everyone knows that i am a believer in the member state but – as ms in ‘t veld said – this is beyond the member state. this is about fundamental human rights. i think if you allow a country to join the european union – much as i am opposed to it – they must accede to its rights. so when will you enforce these rights? are we equal or are we not?
author. − madam president, the reason for putting this oral question and resolution on the agenda is to try to achieve an eu-wide code of conduct on long-term care for older people. i am not talking about legislation here, but an exchange of best practice between member states. for too long the treatment of older people has been inadequate in many areas. we need to know, first and foremost, what data the commission already has on the provision of care in member states. does the commission see itself playing a role in the dissemination of best practice? a key area i have been concerned with for a number of years is elder abuse. it can take many forms – physical, mental, emotional and financial. take the case of a 93-year-old woman who went into a care home for respite care for one week, one week only, only for her to return home completely dehydrated; obviously no attempt had been made to help her to drink at all. this is not an isolated case. there are many cases of malnutrition and dehydration, but it would be useful if we could have facts and figures. has the commission got any data on the number of deaths attributable to dehydration or malnutrition? just as worrying, of course, is the more frequent use of do not resuscitate orders. it should be up to the medical practitioner, in consultation with the patient, to decide on whether dnr should be on someone’s notes. i know of cases where either the nursing home itself decides which person is to be resuscitated or not, or the relatives are told that they must sign up to the document, which is a complete abuse of the person’s right to choose. what is the commission doing to look at the use of so-called do not resuscitate orders? i am not talking about living wills here, i am talking about do not resuscitate orders. does the commission agree that it violates the right to life under article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights? i am pleased that the world health organisation has adopted a broad definition of elder abuse. we need now at eu level to clarify the extent of that abuse. i hope that the commission will bring forward a green paper on elder abuse; i know that the commissioner has talked about that himself. over-prescription of medication, particularly anti-psychotic drugs, is also abuse. quite often they are used for the benefit of the staff, not for the resident in a care home. also, conversely, older people are denied medical treatment on the grounds of age alone. this is another reason why i believe pressure should be put on the council for a decision on the equal treatment directive to outlaw discrimination in access to goods and services, and that would include health care. more must be done as well by each member state, to make sure that older people can be supported in their own homes if that is what they wish, and to regulate qualification requirements for people caring for older people, with adequate training mechanisms in place. many member states have cut back on specialist geriatric medicine and we need to know what the real effects have been on older people. we must not forget, either, the support and recognition that informal carers need. quite often they are the ones who care for their relatives day in, day out with little help. the whole area of long-term care for older people has been ignored for many years. i hope, with this oral question and resolution, that all of us together can start to really give this matter the attention it deserves. quite often older people who require long-term care find it very difficult to speak for themselves. it is up to us all, working with them, to make sure their voices are heard and not forgotten.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would very much like to thank mrs lynne for the opportunity for us to be debating this tonight, and i welcome a lot of what the commissioner has said. indeed, i found quite a lot of it quite encouraging in some ways. you will have recognised, of course, that a number of our questions concern the issues about the vulnerability of older people and a very strong feeling that we have that it is crucially important that people can feel safe with those providing care. while i take your point about the issues about what is a member state competence, nevertheless the open method of coordination exists to help member states work together on something which, while it is not a competence of the european union, nevertheless is seen as something of common importance. i think certain of the issues, even about basic care, nutrition, etc., are very important within this. i am also wondering what further steps the commission might take to persuade member states of the cost-effectiveness of supporting informal carers. there are certainly figures from the uk that recognise that this is a contribution of billions saved in our economy, because the care is being given by close friends or relatives rather than by the state, and that in fact investing in something like a carer’s allowance and support mechanisms for carers really is worth doing, rather than having people totally worn out, isolated and suffering their own health and mental health problems because they have been caring for hours without background support. i am also interested in what you are saying about the possibilities of improving the qualifications of carers. part of that issue, of course, is not only that this concerns women, it often concerns migrant women, and therefore a particular sort of investment is needed. but our resolution also talks about the need for contracts to stipulate at least a minimum income, a minimum wage. i would welcome your comments on that.
author. − madam president, i would like to thank everyone who has spoken, and the commissioner for the things he has said tonight. these have been very useful. what has come out of this discussion also is the importance of having a code of conduct. this is something i called for in the oral question and resolution, and to which thomas mann and various other people have referred. as i said before, we are not talking about legislation. the good example from bulgaria of someone living on eur 100 a month and having to pay for long-term care is just one of the reasons why we need that code of conduct, so that member states can meet a minimum standard. the same applies to ‘do not resuscitate’ orders. i am not saying that the same sort of legislation should be rolled out across all the member states, but that we should actually have benchmarks for people to try and achieve best practice. that is where the commission can do a lot of work in helping us to roll out the good practices acquired from different member states. thank you once again, commissioner, and thank you to the interpreters for staying beyond the 24.00 deadline.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating the belgian presidency on its negotiating skills, and commissioner barnier and his team for finding solutions on supervision. but i would like to turn to those unresolved issues of financial transactions at yesterday’s ecofin. i seem to spend a lot of my time in parliament asking for people to conduct research, write impact assessments and do studies. this week’s ecofin has gone out and done just that. instead of looking at purely political concepts and legislating in haste, the council meeting and commissioner šemeta’s contributions have been based on facts and figures. a good example of better regulation principles in practice. however, when an independent assessment states that one member state would end up collecting in excess of 70% of the revenue generated from a financial transaction tax, it would be ludicrous to claim that such a tax should be implemented at an eu level, if at all. an ftt is not free money, as the popular media would have us believe. the banks and financial intermediaries would not be the ones to pay for a transaction tax. it would be the pensioners reliant on their returns in the market and companies in the real economy paying for every hedging transaction. it is time to recognise the limitations of the simplistic ftt and, if our true aim is to modify the behaviour of banks without destroying our economies, look at the more complex solution of a financial activities tax or bank levies as proposed by the imf instead. instead of derailing the process by calling for unachievable and unwanted eu-wide taxes that many member states, not just my own, are against, we must look at this as an opportunity for strengthening our members states’ weak public finances and allowing them to use the money as they see fit, replenishing their public coffers depleted by bank bail-outs and crisis management.
madam president, i welcome the agreement on the supervisory architecture. i know that my colleagues have not found it easy to reach that agreement. it has been a delicate balancing act between protecting markets from cross-border risks and yet also maintaining national governments’ responsibilities. the commissioner has described this, quite rightly, as just the first brick. i look forward to working with the commission to ensure that future bricks do not overtopple that delicate balance. fundamentally, it is no good for member states to agree standards internationally and then fail to implement them domestically. i hope that this will ensure that we all abide by our international rules. during the debate, many of my colleagues said that it was important that the head of the esrb was the head of the ecb. we promised to listen to him when he warned us of risks. yesterday, he warned the council of the risk of a financial transaction tax and told us that this could be a disaster for europe. let us make sure that we, as politicians, hold on to our promise and actually listen to the person we say we will listen to.
madam president, i should like to thank mr reynders and commissioner barnier very much for their support on the supervisory package, which sometimes felt a bit like trying to push a boiled egg through a tea-strainer, but finally we got through it. i hope our work on solvency ii and its implementing measures will be more productive and much faster. i trust that will be the case. there are many positives which have been pointed out already today – and many negatives – but i would like to agree with the progress that has already been made and what we should aim for. europe though – and not just the euro zone, it has to be said – needs performance-enhancing regulations as well as safeguards. i have the feeling that nations are being made to feel like outcasts, and this must be stopped. it is self-destructive for the eu as a whole. the international agenda is key. the european union has got to play a significant and crucial role in creating global standards. the problem is that if we believe that creating standards in europe alone is enough, we will make a grave error. that is why i welcome commissioner barnier’s remarks about table for the european union and the usa of comparative regulatory achievement. my office has already drawn up such a table. i would be very happy to share the contents of that with you, commissioner. i hope it will be useful. finally i might ask: where are we in dealing with the transatlantic economic council, the higher-level regulatory dialogue? where do we expect to go in the future? we have problems before us we cannot solve on our own.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would also like to thank mrs jeggle for her hard work on this report. there are significant improvements in the compromise text, particularly on inspections, on the new authorisation process for experiments and on a proper classification system, which we welcome. however, we have been waiting several years for the update of this law, and my group still has three major areas of concern, which is why we submitted the amendments. we believe member states should keep the right to introduce stricter rules on animal protection, as they have at the moment and as we agreed at first reading. we believe that alternatives to animals must be used wherever that is possible. the current wording limits the mandatory alternative requirement to a minority of tests carried out, which weakens existing laws and, again, is not what we voted for in the first reading. on non-human primates, we believe that, without the word ‘substantial’ to define it, a debilitating condition could be interpreted as almost any human ailment rather than as a serious reduction in human health, which is what the intention is here. we know from experience with legislation in this field that implementation and enforcement are key to achieving effective legislation, and these issues are crucial ones. with the aim of achieving clarity through further discussion, my group will be calling for a referral back to committee.
mr president, the commission proposed this directive in 2008 and there were concerns about placing excessive burdens on the scientific research industry. the proposal will dilute certain restrictions and i note that the requirement for sharing animal research data has been removed. some 12 million animals are being used in experiments in the eu each year and this proposal could increase their suffering. we must reduce the need for experimentation on animals. civilised human beings will try to strike a balance between the need for research and the obligation to respect the lives of other creatures on this planet. these decisions require the wisdom of solomon. i regret i have to say i have to ask the question, does the eu parliament have such wisdom?
mr president, there are clearly strong views on both sides of this argument. the argument is quite clear. it is about those who believe that the rights of animals should take precedence and those of us who believe in the rights of society to see progress in the development of medicines, treatments and cures for the infirm, the ill and those who are suffering. we need to get that balance right. yes, we need to protect animals, but we need to make sure that our scientists have the tools to be able to develop the new medicines that will provide cures in the future for some of the most desperate diseases that we face as a society. i think that in this argument the text in front of us gets the balance right between these two points of view. i believe that the protection of animals and the rights of society are dealt with properly, and we have the balance right here in the text before us. i would like to pay tribute to mrs jeggle and all the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done. i would ask at this late stage in the day for the greens to think twice about the amendments they are putting forward. this has already been covered in the debate. we have had a negotiation. i believe the text actually takes their concerns into account and deals with them. this is a subject that is too important to play politics with and i would ask, at this late stage, that they think about withdrawing before we get to the vote.
mr president, as a farmer i have always wanted to see animals properly treated and it is my belief that in the uk they are, at least by our scientific community. i have visited huntingdon life sciences in my constituency and i know that dedicated people are doing only what is necessary for scientific progress. this institution carries out essential tests on drugs that in a few years time may protect the life of somebody in this chamber. every employee there has an obligation to be a whistleblower if they have evidence of the maltreatment of animals. we cannot and must not impose unnecessary controls which arbitrarily restrict certain approaches. these three amendments will not enhance animal welfare, but their imposition will impede research. they are, inter alia, a recipe for legalistic conflict which does nothing to advance medicine but may line lawyers’ pockets. frankly, the eu needs to apply rather more the concept of ‘if it isn’t broken, don’t fix it’. in the uk we have a sensible regime, a responsible scientific community – including, in my own constituency, that powerhouse of global scientific progress, cambridge university – and balanced laws which sensibly address the needs of both science and animal welfare. that careful balance needs to be preserved. my message to the eu on this is straightforward: just for once, leave well alone.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to begin by welcoming three things that were said at the beginning: first, that there will be no new intellectual property rights; second, that there will be no changes to legislation via the back door; and, third, the increased transparency we have seen from the commission, particularly vis-à-vis some of the other negotiating partners. we also need to understand the difference between the digital world and the world of atoms. as chris anderson, the editor of wired magazine, once said, in a world of increased bandwidth, cheaper storage and cheaper processing power, digital products tend over time towards free or towards zero. what this means is that many of the industries which are complaining about the digital world have to understand that they must look to new business models. in particular, the phonographic industry and similar industries cannot rely on old business models. i believe it is a different story in the world of atoms – in the world of the manufacturing of products. we need to make sure that, while the eu may not be competitive in terms of labour costs, eu countries and companies are competitive when it comes to research and design. it must be galling for companies who invest millions – sometimes billions – in new products and new designs to see those products undercut by counterfeit products elsewhere. we lead the world in the field of high-value motor cars and in products like smart phones, and we must be very careful that, after millions or billions are invested in these products, these are not simply undercut. i welcome the statement by the commission, but we have to understand the difference between the world of atoms and the digital world.
mr president, we need to ask to what extent anti-counterfeiting trade agreements are simply protection for big business and to what extent they really protect ordinary people. in the case of medicinal products, counterfeit medicines might at best be ineffective and rob people of a cure; at worst they might be injurious and rob them of their health or even their lives. counterfeit goods are nearly always produced in low-wage countries and they under-cut genuine manufactured goods produced in our countries at the cost of the jobs of the citizens of our member states. sanctions must be taken against countries allowing this practice. i was pleased to hear the commission’s assurance that any large-scale infringements would be targeted, and not consumers. however, some actor-supporting lobbyists do indeed want internet access to be withdrawn from people suspected of repeated unauthorised downloading, and the same people would like deep packet inspection, looking at customers’ communications. can we be assured that these provisions will not be incorporated at a later stage and override your objections?
the next item is the vote. before we start with the votes, can i just explain that the electronic results system may be faulty, in which case you will only see the two cheeses known as ‘the camembert’ and not the result, but you may see it on your screen. we will check the system in a minute, so please be patient. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mrs alfano, thank you for that proposal. do we have 40 colleagues who wish to stand in support of that proposal? could you please stand if you are in support. i think we have 40 colleagues and i will take one speaker in favour of the motion.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the green/efa group supports the referral back because we also have serious concerns about the text as it stands. at the moment, member states have the right to adopt stricter animal protection measures if they wish. the new law would prevent that in future. this would discourage improvements and it is against what parliament agreed to at first reading. we should also state absolutely clearly that alternatives should be used wherever they are possible, but the wording of the text weakens the existing law. similarly, we need a very clear definition of the conditions for use of non-human primates. again, this is not the case in the text. many problems that we have with the current legislation have resulted from differing interpretations in different member states. we need more debate on this and on the other points to ensure that we have absolute clarity and to ensure that this legislation is effective.
there is a mechanism on your outlook which allows you to delete automatically, but that is a matter between you and your constituents.
how awful it must be for your constituents to be able to contact you! you are a disgrace. your constituents should be able to contact you. if you are asking for your constituents not to be able to contact you directly, what are you? (applause)
ms sinclaire, thank you for amplifying my point of view.
in fact the council was present for the debate because i chaired part of it. no doubt they will pay close attention to what parliament has to say as they assured the house last night they would.
mr president, i defer to your judgement, but i am informed that the agreement on this was late and therefore it is possible to ask for a roll-call vote on both amendments. with your discretion, i do ask for that.
mr mészáros (meh-tsá-rosh), we have the pronunciation of your name as i have just given it. if that is wrong, please tell us how you like it to be pronounced.
mr president, thirty years ago the countries of – let us call it ‘old europe’, the 15 member states of the eu as it stood prior to the enlargement to the ex-comecon countries, accounted for 36% of world gdp. today that figure is 25% and in 10 years’ time, it is scheduled to be 15%. now why is this happening? we cannot put it all down to the rise of asia. the share of world gdp occupied by canada and the us has remained fairly steady over the same period. the truth is that we have burdened ourselves with higher taxes, with more restrictive regulations, with more intrusive regulators and licences and inspectors and bureaucrats and clerks. it may have made sense when the main competition was coming from within this continent. it makes no sense in a world where we are competing with china and india. all the more reason for your constituents and mine to raise their eyes to further horizons, to abandon this cramped and dwindling regional customs union and to rediscover the global vocation which our fathers took for granted.
mr president, let us start with the positive aspects of this report. i think it is very important that we all support the idea of life-long learning. for too long and for too many years you had one chance at exams, and that decided – at a particular age, at the age of 11 or of 18 – your future. it is very helpful, in an age of ever-changing economies where certain sectors can disappear overnight, that our citizens are able to engage in life-long learning. but at the same time we should look at the bigger picture. quite often in this chamber we talk about the idea of a social europe. but that phrase ‘social europe’ is often a cover for policies that actually inhibit job creation – that add more burdens to smes, those engines of growth across europe – and make it more difficult to create jobs. let government get out of the way of the small businesses. let them create jobs, wealth and prosperity for all.
in my long experience in the european parliament i have never known such a huge majority in favour of a resolution of this type, with one vote against, 22 abstentions and more than 600 in favour. i think you have achieved the message you were seeking to send. thank you anyway.
mr president, on the motion about iran. we all share the same concern, and as you, mr president, just said, the result shows the overwhelming feeling here in this chamber right across the political spectrum. our concern is about the fact that these two ladies are not being afforded due legal process, and not only that, but when they try to employ lawyers, the lawyers themselves are persecuted and driven away from the country. we see a government that has a complete disregard for democracy, a government that ignores the results of the elections and then beats up the people and kills the protesters who want to see more democracy. we also see the persecution of people of other religions, of the christian faith, of the baha’i faith. but i would also like to point out very quickly one other person that we should be thinking about and that is ibrahim hamidi, who was accused of homosexuality. the fact that a person can be persecuted for his sexuality is a stain on the character of that country. let us hope that one day soon that regime will be overthrown.
i would like to thank you all. as vice-president responsible for human rights and democracy, i completely endorse the remarks that have been made. having witnessed so-called iranian justice a few years ago in person, i can only express my horror at the current situation in iran and hope, like all of you, that it will soon end. i hope also that the single vote against the resolution was a mistake and that in fact we were unanimous.
mr president, the iranian revolution of 1979 will one day be seen as an epochal event, on a par with the french revolution of 1789 and the russian revolution of 1917. like those, it immediately spilled out from behind its borders and sought to replicate itself around the world. like those, it made no acknowledgement of the principles of sovereignty or territorial jurisdiction. the signature act of the ayatollahs was the siege of the american embassy. even in the second world war, when mutually opposed ideologies fought to extirpate each other, the sanctity of diplomatic legations was respected. what the ayatollahs were doing was signalling that the old rules did not apply to them and that they answered to a different authority. they have carried on as they started, disregarding any notion of territorial jurisdiction, sponsoring their militias and their terrorist organisations. from the gulf to the lebanon, to the silk road khanates, to the balkans, they have struck at civilian targets as far away as london and buenos aires. i cannot help feeling that we would be in an even stronger position to condemn them if we had more respect ourselves for the principle of territorial jurisdiction and, indeed, democracy. i hope that those members who have spoken very sincerely and movingly about the lack of representative government in iran will apply the same high standards the next time we have a referendum within the european union.
in writing. − i am disappointed at the final text of this report, and particularly that the amendments tabled to strengthen the animal welfare provisions were not adopted. it is time clear regulations were laid down to move towards restrictions on the use of non-human primates, a ban on the use of wild-caught animals, an unequivocal obligation to use non-animal alternative methods when scientifically available, and a ban on experiments which involve severe and prolonged suffering. at the very least, member states should be able to go beyond the eu miminum requirements and implement stricter animal welfare laws. while this report will improve the existing legislation, it did not go nearly far enough and for this reason i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − i voted for this report even though i realise that, for some, this new directive does not go far enough. i believe however that the compromise reached between the parliament and the council represents the best possible balance between protecting animals on one hand and allowing scientific research to continue on the other. voting against this report would have meant that we would have go back to the previous 1986 directive which definitely does not offer the same protection for animals. existing uk legislation on animal welfare is among the strictest in the world and while the uk will not be able to legislate further in this area, our standards will be allowed to remain exceptionally high rather than be lowered.
in writing. − i am disappointed that measures to strengthen rules on animal testing did not go further. key measures which would have committed europe to the reduction and replacement of the use of animals in experiments were not included in this legislation. this was a missed opportunity and much more could have been done to protect animals, including allowing member states to adopt higher welfare standards than other countries. i am concerned that this directive will prohibit the uk from adopting higher standards in the future. in addition to this, procedures to regularly review the use of animals in scientific experiments were not included. i am pleased however, that vital research into new medicines and diseases can continue.
in writing. − i have abstained on this motion. however, i would have voted for the (ecr) motion b7-0499/2010. of course, i agree with the sentiments that stoning to death (or any other death sentence) for adultery is completely unacceptable even for muslim countries that might wish to prohibit such conduct by law. whilst i am not in favour of using the criminal law to enforce moral conduct between consenting adults, i respect the right of other countries to take a different view, as long as they do not use disproportionate and savage sentences. i am also alarmed at the use of the criminal law against political dissent, either in iran or those countries in the eu that are guilty of this. all defendants facing serious criminal charges should be entitled to legal representation and there should be safeguards against inappropriate police conduct before trial. i do not believe that it is for the eu to tell iran that it must never use the death penalty in any circumstances. if this motion is not to be counter-productive, it must be measured and appeal to reform-minded members of a very conservative society. this motion will offend even pro-reform iranians.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group attaches great importance to the right of our sovereign nations to decide whether or not to issue an arms export licence in accordance with criteria in the agreed eu common position. clearly this is not a matter where the eu decides, nor should it be. the common position, of course, urges exporting member states to consider, inter alia, the preservation of regional peace, security and stability. in the case which seems to be the focus of this discussion, we should be aware of the sensitive nature of the situation in both the baltic and black sea regions. as far as the black sea is concerned, we should recall the recent conflict in georgia and the fact that, of the six black sea littoral states, three – bulgaria, turkey and romania – are nato members, and two others – georgia and ukraine – are nato partners and aspiring members. we might therefore question the wisdom of the sale of amphibious assault vessels to the sixth: russia. however, there are well-established mechanisms to cover issues related to arms exports. in the eu context this is the council working group on conventional arms exports – coarm – which meets formally about every six weeks in brussels. as it is intergovernmental, it is the right forum for discussion of arms exports; a strasbourg plenary session is not. we should let coarm get on with its work.
(beginning of speech inaudible) ... the commission because mrs lösing fell into a trap which we often hear in this parliament and elsewhere in the union of referring to the european union’s arms exports. the european union does not export arms anywhere. the european union does not have a defence industry, the european union does not have any armed forces. these all belong to the member states of the union, so we should not use terminology which says ‘eu arms exports’. there is no such thing.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the eu’s interest in the export of arms is clearly part of the increasing militarisation of the eu in the post-lisbon era. tony blair himself told journalists just days ago that he wanted to see the eu develop a ‘military character’. a big part of this will be who the eu gets its weapons from and who it sells those weapons to. there is already talk that equipment produced for the eu army will not be interoperable with american equipment. the crazy notion of the british sharing an aircraft carrier with france would lose britain access to us stealth technology overnight. it would also close the uk market to american imports and close the us market to british exports, destroying jobs on either side of the atlantic. defence exports are worth gbp 7 billion a year to the uk economy, that is the same as we pay to the eu in net contributions every year. we should oppose all such moves.
mr president, a dilemma faces all arms manufacturing countries over the issue of arms exports. the fixed costs are self-evidently and inevitably high, which makes it uneconomic for most – if not all – countries to manufacture arms for their own use only. it would be tempting for some arms manufacturing countries simply to have a policy to export arms to any country other than ones that it has reason to believe might attack itself or its interests. that would maximise the interests of the country producing the arms. however, it would at best be an amoral policy and, at worst, a thoroughly immoral one. the criteria stated in the original question for deciding whether to export arms are many and varied. different criteria might apply to different kinds of weaponry. countries with poor human rights records such as iran – and, for that matter, those eu countries that lock people up for political dissent or heretical opinion, such as half the countries in the eu – should be denied small arms, surveillance systems and articles of restraint, but might not be denied weaponry to protect them from external attack. countries that are prone to waging aggressive wars, but respect the rights of their own citizens, might be sold small arms and restraint mechanisms, but not weapons of mass destruction. in particular, the united states – arguably the most aggressive country on the planet, having waged countless destabilising, aggressive and illegal wars – should be denied any technology that might be used for weapons of mass destruction. iran, however much we might deplore its human rights record – and i certainly do – has not carried out any attacks on its neighbours. it was not, for example, the aggressor in the iran-iraq war. however, it may be the focus of aggression and a planned attack, possibly by the united states and possibly by israel. we might not wish it to have weaponry that could be used to launch an attack – and i certainly would not – but we might want it to have access to a nuclear shield to prevent it from being attacked.
mr president, i do not normally intervene and least of all in debate with a british national party mep, but to actually accuse member states of locking people up for their political views and opinions! i can be critical of the european union, but i do not know of any european member state which locks anybody up for their political views, otherwise why would people like him be allowed into this chamber, for goodness’ sake? (interjections: 'hungary'.) absolute nonsense! can you name and shame these countries which lock people up for their political opinions? (interjections by members including mr brons, who was offered the floor.)
mr president, i have said that hungary, under the previous regime, locked up several people merely for political dissent. there are many countries in the eu that lock people up for heretical academic opinion. however wrong that academic opinion might be, it is not justified to lock people up for opinions that fall short of incitement to violence.
mr president, the conventional arms industry is an important contributor to the economies of many member states, including my own, the united kingdom. in an unstable and dangerous world, eu member states need the capacity to defend themselves, their interests and their allies around the world. however, the eu, by unanimous agreement intergovernmentally in council, has made impressive efforts and progress in recent years to restrict the production and distribution of certain weapons and even ban the supply of arms to certain repressive regimes. we can be rightly proud of our advocacy in favour of the ottawa treaty, which bans anti-personnel mines globally. the issue of the convention on cluster munitions, which entered into force last month, will hopefully be another step towards eventually eliminating these nasty weapons – although i do note that at least six eu member states are yet to ratify it. in the eu’s neighbouring countries, we work hard under the mpi to monitor arms production and destroy nuclear weapon stockpiles, and this should be continued and even intensified. we must always be vigilant against efforts by terrorists to acquire arms from countries where end-user licence regimes and arms exports are less rigorously policed and enforced. finally, the european union should maintain its ban on exporting arms to china, for two reasons. firstly because of the regime’s woeful human rights record against its own citizens, and secondly to show our support for our democratic ally taiwan, which is potentially first in china’s line of fire.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in the week when there is the resumption of direct peace talks and on the day which marks the beginning of the jewish new year – and i wish shana tova to all jews in europe and in the world – i deeply regret that the israeli knesset still intends to impose onerous and unacceptable reporting restrictions on all human rights organisations in receipt of foreign funds, including funds from the european union. we have heard from the ngos affected, both in our middle east working group and in parliament’s human rights subcommittee, that they undertake bona fide human rights work but that they are being intimidated and harassed by accusations of political bias. such restrictions on international aid for human rights ngos exist in countries including burma, tunisia and rwanda. they should not be introduced in a country like israel, and they are contrary to israel’s obligations to support freedom of association under the conventions of the international labour organisation. there are too few voices for peace and human rights on both sides of the conflict in the middle east. those who do speak out are often overwhelmed by others who seek the path of violence. pluralistic democratic societies operating in conditions of peace and stability cherish civil society, even when its message may sometimes be difficult. as george orwell said, ‘freedom is the right to tell people what they do not want to hear’.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i refer to the letter from the israeli ambassador, mr curiel, to the chair of our human rights subcommittee. it was my intention to welcome, and indeed endorse, his declaration that we should be prepared to support the principle of transparency in the funding of organisations. we would expect that here, and why not in israel too. then my eyes turned to one of the last paragraphs of his letter, where he expressed his resentment to any comparison being made between pluralistic israeli civil society and some other countries. he uses these words: ‘embarking on such a wrong path may lead us all to dwell on europe’s own credentials past and present’. if that is not a reference to the holocaust, i do not know what is. the implications are clear: you europeans do not have the right to criticise israel because of your past. you have blood on your hands. i was not responsible for the actions of the nazis. i was not born at the time, most of the rest of us here were not born then, and this european union was established to try and ensure that evil of that kind never took place again. i resent the idea that we have to turn a blind eye to israel’s appalling behaviour – in gaza, the economic blockade, the occupation of palestinian territory and infringements of human rights – all too often. i resent the idea that we should be forced not to ask why a people which suffered so much in previous centuries should now inflict such suffering upon the palestinian people today. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, like all sovereign states, israel has an absolute right to supervise, monitor and regulate as it sees fit the activities of domestic and international ngos which operate on its territory, particularly if they are of a political nature and might be supportive of terrorism or coming from states which support terrorism. israel is a parliamentary democracy, characterised by a vigorous civil society in which all shades of non-violent opinion can be openly represented and discussed. ngos operating in israel have a freedom unparalleled anywhere else in the middle east, which is generally a repressive environment for civil society. russia has passed draconian legislation against ngos, despite being a member of the council of europe, but russia is big and has oil and gas, whereas israel is small and resource-poor, which perhaps explains why russia largely escapes scrutiny in this respect. today’s debate therefore appears suspiciously like another israel-bashing exercise by the usual suspects, of the kind in which this parliament indulges all too often – never mind that the draft law proposed to the knesset has undergone considerable alteration and improvement. with direct talks between israel and the palestinians having just resumed, we in the european parliament risk condemning ourselves to irrelevance with unhelpful debates like this one.
mr president, i am deeply disturbed by the content and tone of some of the contributions to this debate today. as direct talks between israel and the palestinian authority make a faltering start, i would urge this house to be cautious in its remarks, at a time of great sensitivity in the middle east. from the experience of my own constituency of northern ireland, i can testify to the fragility of such talks. outside interference is often counter-productive and destabilising to progress. this is made all the more acute by the indiscriminate attack last week which killed four israeli citizens. i am sure members will join in condemning that attack, and indeed in commending israel for its commitment to the talks. turning to the legislation in question, we should acknowledge that the israeli government has worked with its parliament to address concerns. the bill that will progress through the knesset has seen significant changes. those changes exemplify israeli democracy in action and responsiveness to reasonable and measured criticism. the remaining measures are focused on applying the principles of openness, accountability and transparency to the ngo sector. ngos across the world regularly advocate these as key principles for healthy public life in a democratic society. furthermore, the requirement that foreign government support should be acknowledged in public advertising campaigns and websites is comparable with the eu funding requirement to acknowledge and promote the receipt of eu funding. i would suggest that this makes the opposition by ngos – and by some within this parliament – to such proposals both illogical and hypocritical. that debate represents interference in the internal affairs of a state outside the european union and on a matter which is already being addressed. many in israel will conclude that the motivation for this is born of anti-israeli sentiment when, at a time of peace negotiations, we should be a source of encouragement for those negotiators. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
mr president, i thank mrs dodds. would the honourable member accept that she is relatively new to this house. some of us who have been here a remarkably long time already, it seems, have actually been through a number of israeli-palestinian direct peace negotiations and have found that keeping quiet does not necessarily contribute to the process whatsoever?
mr president, of course i will accept that i am relatively new to this house, but i would also expect the honourable member to recognise that i am not new to situations of conflict or to dealing with a situation of terrorism, within my own constituency of northern ireland. i actually have personal experience of such terrorism and, having taken part in the negotiations which led to a more peaceful democratic future for my people in northern ireland, my experience is that outside interference, and particularly very skewed outside interference, is both wrong and unhelpful. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, water is indeed a sensitive and potentially inflammatory issue in the middle east. high-level delegations from israel and the palestinian authority are currently discussing water rights as part of the comprehensive framework for peace. as a member of the quartet, the eu supports a two-state solution as the ultimate guarantor of peace and stability in the region. therefore we must be very careful not to prejudice the delicate negotiations currently under way in washington. blaming the israeli settlers, as mrs de keyser seems to be doing, in particular for jordan river water overuse sends precisely the wrong signal to the people of israel – our democratic ally – about the eu’s professed position as an honest broker. conserving the watershed of the jordan river is an important regional issue that is not of course confined solely to israel and the palestinians, yet israel’s opponents in this house and elsewhere are blatantly seeking to exploit this issue as part of their campaign to undermine the jewish state. in succumbing again to this anti-israeli agenda, we are in danger of having the eu seen by israelis as unworthy of its privileged role as a partner for peace.
mr president, competition for water can exacerbate – or even ignite – conflict, whether it is the receding glaciers of jammu and kashmir, the tensions amongst central asian countries over the depleted aral sea, rival tribes vying for the same waters between sudan and somalia, or indeed here, in this debate about the lower jordan valley. the rehabilitation of the river jordan and the cooperation required to achieve it might just enhance the prospects of peace too. that river has been immortalised in the holy books of judaism, christianity and islam, with references associating it with the prophets moses and elijah, and as the burial place of four companions of the prophet mohammed. the river jordan was crossed by the israelites under joshua, and it is here that the miracle took place of jesus walking on the water. we should not need another miracle for its waters to be protected for the benefit of the peoples of the region today, and for future generations there to live in peace and prosperity.
the next item is question time (b7-0454/2010). the following questions are addressed to the council. question 1 by vilija blinkeviciute (h-0355/10) subject: disabled people and the europe 2020 strategy the european union strategy for jobs and growth over the next decade adopted by the european council is intended to help europe recover from the crisis and, by promoting competitiveness, productivity and social cohesion, to strengthen europe’s role at eu and international level. however, it is highly regrettable that disabled people, who currently constitute over 12% of the eu’s population, have been forgotten in this strategy. although the council has constantly called for greater attention to be paid to the integration of disabled people when dealing with disability issues, no specific tasks, objectives or commitments are set out in the europe 2020 strategy that might form a basis for the improvement of the lives of the more than 65 million disabled europeans. almost 78% of disabled people are not integrated into the labour market and have no opportunity to earn a living. most of them are dependent on benefits, which, sadly, have also been reduced as a result of the recession. how does the council intend to guarantee employment for disabled people and their participation in the labour market on equal terms? does the council not think it necessary to adopt specific guidelines for disability policy over the next decade or a dedicated strategy with clearly defined objectives and commitments?
question 2 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0358/10) subject: budgetary adjustment and private debt attempts to achieve financial reform at european level aim to improve public finances and balance member states’ budgets. at the same time, action is being taken to clean up the wider financial sector, and particularly the banking sector, which is directly linked with the real economy. these efforts, however, are concerned only with the public debt situation, not with private debt, which is the second component of a country’s overall debt. what impact does private debt have on the social situation of each member state, and what are the links between private and public debt? what does the council intend to do in the event that (a) private debt is greater than public debt, (b) it is increasing? how will it tackle such a tendency, given that the stability and growth pact does not envisage tackling private debt?
question 3 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0361/10) subject: ten-t network review a ministerial conference was held on 7 and 8 june 2010 in saragossa (spain), organised by the commission with the objective of launching a review process for the ten-t network. this process will, in principle, take place over the second half of this year and the beginning of next year, and will focus on developing the methodology for defining the nucleus of the ten-t network and its nodes for interconnection with the transport infrastructures of the eu's neighbours. following this process, each mode of transport should be able to enhance its contribution to trans-european transport, with intermodality ensured between different forms of transport and, above all, with suitable financing mechanisms in place. given that the greater part of this process will coincide with the belgian presidency of the council, can the council provide information on the proposed timetable and the actions planned by the belgian presidency concerning the review of the ten-t network?
question 4 by georgios papanikolaou (h-0362/10) subject: evaluation of the open method of coordination in 2000 the council introduced the concept of the open method of coordination in relation to sectors (employment, social protection, social integration, education, youth and training) which fall within the remit of member states. its aim was to improve cooperation between member states and ensure exchanges of best practices in order to bring about the convergence of policies between individual countries. in view of the above, will the council say:does it consider this specific strategy to be successful? could it provide specific results? does the presidency consider that the concept of the open method of coordination should be re-examined or revised?
question 5 by nikolaos chountis (h-0366/10) subject: memorandum of understanding concluded by greece with the eu and imf and rocketing inflation the memorandum of understanding with the imf and eu signed by greece specifically states that one of the obligations of the greek government is to reduce inflation to below the average for the euro area in order to make its economy more competitive. in may, however, inflation reached 5.4% compared with 1.6% for the euro area, thereby further eroding the disposable income of greek wage earners and significantly undermining the competitiveness of the greek economy. this hefty rise in inflation has been caused by increased direct and indirect taxation imposed by the eu and imf, as well as by ongoing and unrestrained speculation. does the council agree that the fiscal measures imposed by the eu and imf have largely contributed to this inflationary spiral which is further undermining the competitiveness of the greek economy? what structural measures will it recommend to the greek government with a view to containing it?
question 6 by laima liucija andrikiene (h-0368/10) subject: priorities of the belgian presidency regarding the un and its bodies what are the priorities of the belgian eu presidency with regard to the un in general and the un hrc in particular? have the representations of the eu council and the european commission in geneva already merged or is the process still in progress?
question 7 by liam aylward (h-0373/10) subject: enhancement of biodiversity in the eu given that 2010 has been designated the international year for biodiversity and in light of the forthcoming conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in nagoya, can the council outline its priorities on the protection and enhancement of biodiversity? what is the state of play as regards the enforcement of the eu biodiversity action plan and how does the council envisage the role of biodiversity in the eu 2020 strategy?
question 8 by mairead mcguinness (h-0375/10) subject: informal agriculture council, september 2010 what conclusions have been drawn by the belgian presidency resulting from the high-level cap conference in brussels in july? can the presidency comment on the upcoming informal agriculture council on 19-21 september? what will the presidency propose to member states at this council with regard to the cap post-2013? furthermore can the council update members on any developments at council level with regard to the ongoing mercosur talks?
question 9 by ryszard czarnecki (h-0379/10) subject: prospects of accession to the eu of balkan states what view does the council take of the prospects of accession to the european union of the states in the balkan region in south-eastern europe? does the council consider that some of these states could accede to the union during the period covered by the next financial perspective, i.e. between 2014 and 2020?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.00 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this question opens with a statement that the free movement of workers is beneficial to the economies of member states and does not have serious negative side effects on their labour markets. the us economist, professor george borjas, disagrees. he says, ‘there is no gain from immigration if the native wage is not reduced by immigration’. in 2003, a study published by the dutch government said ‘gdp will increase but this increase will largely accrue to the migrants in the form of wages. the overall net gain in income to residents is likely to be small and may even be negative’. a report from the house of lords select committee on economic affairs in 2008 said ‘although possible in theory, we found no systematic empirical evidence to suggest that net immigration creates significant dynamic benefits for the uk resident population’. uncontrolled and unrestricted immigration into the uk has meant that the wages of native workers have been driven down, while living costs have been driven up because of extra demand on housing. the people at the bottom end of the economic scale have experienced this directly. massive immigration of cheap labour may benefit an expanding and developing economy in a country with vast reserves of untapped natural resources, such as america in the 19th century, but it will have the opposite effect on a developed post-industrial economy such as britain, as has proved to be the case. governments should protect the interests of their own citizens first and then help other countries to develop their economies by adopting sensible international trade policies, such as britain used to do before we joined the european union. that is why the only sensible policy for great britain is that of the uk independence party, which is to leave the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think it is important – as others have said and indeed the commissioner also said in his contribution – that there is no risk at all to human health from produce from the offspring of cloned animals. i stress there the word ‘offspring’ of cloned animals, rather than the particular issue of cloned animals themselves, because these are two separate issues. i wanted to raise here today – as i did with you yesterday, commissioner, when we met informally – the position that the innes family in scotland found themselves in earlier on this summer. they are a long-standing farming family in scotland who are very dynamic, go-ahead farmers and have always sought to use the best genetics from around the world. they bought a bull bred in the united states, which turned out to have a clone in its parentage. they asked all the right questions at the time about the use of the animal and whether it could be used on the farm. they did not understand that there was any issue with it because it was an offspring of a cloned animal, rather than a cloned animal itself. they now have 90 females bred from that particular bull on farm, and these are worth somewhere in the region of £200 000. it was only when they started to consider selling the milk from these animals as they became old enough to produce that they discovered there was a problem. the united kingdom’s interpretation of the current regulations is that not only the produce from the cloned animal, but the produce from the offspring, is not allowed into the uk food chain. that is an interpretation that was put in place by the food standards agency. that has meant that these animals are worthless, except of course if you move them to another member state where there is a different interpretation regarding these animals and where milk from these animals would be allowed to enter the food chain, or indeed if you sold them back to the usa. that is the problem that we have in terms of lack of consistency across member states. i think it is in the interests of both consumers and farmers that we get some certainty about this. in terms of parliament's position, i think that we have gone too far in saying that the meat and milk and products from the offspring of cloned animals should be banned from the system. i think that is wrong and we need to see movement on that. it seems to me that we have to accept that all the scientific evidence suggests there is no difference between these animals which are offspring and any other animals, and they should be allowed into the food chain. i hope that at some stage over the coming months we can see some compromise and introduce certainty that reassures both consumers and farmers on what is a very sensitive and emotional issue.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, you will be pleased to hear that i am only going to speak for a minute. we face a very similar situation here to the controversy over gm crops. in each case, the objective scientific safety tests have been successfully passed, but in each case there has been a subjective and emotional backlash that no qualitative test can legislate for. in the case of gm crops, the commission has now allowed decisions to be taken by member states’ elected governments, which of course is where all decisions should be taken. this development has only occurred after years and years of stalemate and buck-passing between different eu institutions. it is unsurprising that present eu law is confused over the commercial use of the offspring of cloned animals, and it is certainly not the job of this chamber to increase this confusion with yet more eu regulation. the correct procedure here is to allow member states, with their very different cultures, to decide for themselves whether or not to allow commercial production of these products. those countries which choose not to must have complete freedom over the method of labelling imports, without eu interference. the use of assurance schemes in such countries will create opportunities for their farmers.
mr president, i welcome the commissioner’s statement on this issue tonight. as george lyon indicated, several issues have emerged in the united kingdom recently surrounding the marketing of cloned offspring. the lack of a consistent message between the commission guidance and that of the uk food standards agency has caused a great deal of confusion. this, i must say, is through no fault of the commission’s, but it has brought hardship to producers and has certainly had an impact on confidence in the safety of food. it is unsustainable and illogical that the uk food standards agency regards products from the offspring of cloned animals as novel foods in the united kingdom, while in other countries across europe this is not the case. i am pleased to learn that discussions have taken place on the matter between the commission and the food standards agency to try to bring clarity for both producers and consumers. the nature of a novel food in the context of cloned animals and offspring of a cloned animal must be made clear. with a unified approach on this issue across europe – and indeed beyond in terms of third country imports – the contradictory advice in the uk which has been offered thus far must cease. as we all know, confidence in both the source and the safety of food is essential. i welcome the commission’s attempt to keep that confidence in food safety in place.
mr president, i wonder if commissioner dalli could clarify exactly what he intends to bring before us in november. he talks about a report, but what we have heard about here is a real legal loophole where farmers have been put in an impossible position because there is no clarity about what the actual legislation in place now means. we want more than a discussion and a report in november. even if the commission brings forward new proposals, it could take 18 months before we have any new law. in the interim, before there is any new law and any new clarity, i would strongly recommend that we have a moratorium on food products from cloned animals. i want to echo what mr schnellhardt has just said in relation to the commissioner’s claim that we cannot take on board ethical issues in legislation. that is not correct. the lisbon treaty has a provision which states that all eu policies must take animal welfare into account. i wonder whether the commissioner has read the report by the european group on ethics. for colleagues who do not know what this is, it is the group set up by president barroso to look at the ethical aspects of eu policy. that report states clearly that there are major concerns about animal suffering in connection with cloning and food. it states that there should be further studies on the long-term animal welfare of clones and their offspring. another concern the commissioner has not mentioned is biodiversity. if there are herds of animals which are all from the same cloning family, the report states that this could create huge problems of interbreeding and increased vulnerability of the food supply chain. it also states that there is a problem of cloned meat leading to an increase in meat consumption, with serious environmental consequences. the conclusion of that ethical committee – which is the commission’s own ethical committee – is that we need more public debate before we allow food from cloned animals onto the market. commissioner, we need that debate. we need you to stop now, not to put farmers in this impossible position, and to make the law clear. we cannot wait two or three years to do that. you need to act, quickly, with a moratorium now, and then have a proper debate on a proper piece of legislation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i should like to thank my colleague the rapporteur for this report and everything she has included in it. better lawmaking is a challenge of vital importance for the future of an eu that is relevant for citizens of our member states. much of the good lawmaking that we do in this house is, however, unfortunately negated, firstly by the large number of completely unnecessary regulations that still sit on our statute books and the administrative burden that places on the backbone of the eu economy, i.e. smes. i am pleased to see that the commission has today recognised that in this house. secondly there are the somewhat completely crazy initiatives that the commission comes with to us from time to time, which achieve nothing other than to allow our real work to be ignored and these crazy ideas to be rightly rubbished. moving forward from the lisbon treaty, however, it is important that we concentrate on many of the issues that have been raised by my colleague. first of all, as the standing rapporteur on monitoring subsidiarity and proportionality, i can tell you that it is certainly of vital importance that our national parliaments play their right part in our process of lawmaking here, but without adequate interpretation facilities, that part of our job is not done to the best of our abilities. i welcome the development on impact assessments. consultation with all interested parties and compliance with subsidarity should also be tested. i welcome the report’s call for smart regulation to be defined. impact assessments should be presented in committee right at the outset, so that parliament can share its views with the commission before any assessment is undertaken. in short, my group is very supportive of the fact that we move forward on the following bases: the european institutions must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality; all draft legislation must include reasons for concluding that this level is the best at which we come forward with that regulation; all legislative proposals should be accompanied by an impact assessment with a greater degree of independence; the commission should present all impact assessments to the committee right at the outset; and we must ensure that decisions are taken as closely to the citizen as possible.
mr president, the legislative process as it is carried out by this parliament seems to be designed to prevent individual members from making individual judgements. legislative proposals and amendments are re-written or re-assigned to different batches of amendments or re-divided at the last possible moment. those members of large party groups who wish to obey unthinkingly do not need to concern themselves with this, because they blindly follow the instructions of their party or group leaderships. however, independent-minded meps, either of large or small groups, who wish to take an independent judgement before they vote must sometimes decide between attending a debate during the morning preceding a vote and leaving crucial judgements to their assistants, or absenting themselves from those debates so they can make a personal decision. this is no way to run a democratic institution.
author. − mr president, i speak on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, of which i have the honour to be chairman. those of us who have followed the process of postal liberalisation will be aware of what a long drawn-out affair it has been. right from the outset in the late 1980s, this parliament was keen to ensure that any liberalisation process should not adversely affect working conditions and should guarantee a universal postal service to the citizens of europe. modern technology has radically changed the way people communicate with each other, but at the end of the day citizens still like to see, on a daily basis, the postmen and postwomen who deliver our mail. therefore, the starting point has to be that our postal services are not just about economic bottom lines, but they are also a social service that needs to be supported. it is from this basic starting point that we must judge directive 2008/6/ec, which will complete the internal market in postal services by 31 december this year. the aim of this oral question from the committee on transport and tourism is to remind the commission forcibly of the safeguards put in place by parliament in this directive in the areas of social protection and the delivery and financing of a universal service, and to remind the member states that the obligation is on them to protect both of these areas and not, as they have done with railway liberalisation, just to ignore the law. therein lies the dilemma faced by this parliament. firstly, there is a suspicion that the commission will not enforce these important aspects of directive 2008/6/ec but will act with great zeal in enforcing the economic liberalisation side of the directive and, secondly, that member states will move at a snail’s pace, will do nothing to protect postal workers and postal services and will fail to finance adequately the universal service. therefore, there are four clear questions requiring four clear, unambiguous answers from the commission. those questions are the ones contained in this oral question. we do not require technical commission-speak answers or even quotes from the various treaties, etc. my committee is well-versed in the treaties. we require guarantees that what was agreed in directive 2008/6/ec will be implemented, including the safeguarding of postal workers in all sectors. we require the guarantee of a universal service. we want to see the studies demanded in the directive on the cost of delivering that universal service or at least a date for their completion. we want the commission to carry out a full impact assessment on the liberalisation of the postal market and on the effects that it will have across the sector, and not just in terms of the economic aspects of that sector. in conclusion, one could ask why this oral question is being placed before parliament at this time. sadly, the answer lies in a suspicion – even a mistrust – that having got, after many years, full liberalisation of this sector, member states will ignore the social and service provision articles that are contained in the directive and that the commission will allow them to do so. that simply cannot be allowed to happen. we as a parliament are not prepared to have the same debacle afflict postal services that has been prevalent in the railway sector. member states must abide by all the provisions of directive 2008/6/ec and the commission must be vigilant in ensuring that they do. failure to do this would, in our opinion, be a dereliction of duty.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, when the eu ordered the postal sector to open up to competition, it destroyed a vital british service. as a sovereign nation, our post offices were run by the royal mail and linked with national savings, licensing, welfare and pension collection, to name a few. in 1975, we had 25 000 post offices. now there are fewer than 12 000 despite a population boom. after being forced to sell off their profit-making arm, post offices could not stay open without government support. thousands shut, stripping communities of access to vital services. the eu postal reform says that good quality postal services should be available throughout the union. that is exactly what we had in britain. as a consolidated enterprise, the service was efficient, prices were managed and everyone had access to it. now the sector has been broken up, along with people’s faith in it. it is a disgrace to strip britain of an efficient public service merely to satisfy competition law. do you wish to privatise our nhs as well next? the uk must be allowed to fully opt out of this directive.
author. − mr president, i think the fact that you have had a lot of people willing to participate in the catch-the-eye debate shows the importance of this issue to parliament, and that is what i want to stress to the commissioner. i have heard the commissioner’s response and, in some respects, i am gratified at what i have heard, but there is deep concern in this parliament that, with the liberalisation of the postal services, social conditions and workers’ conditions, as well as the service conditions that are contained in the universal service, will be diluted on the altar of liberalisation and privatisation on some issues. i therefore think it is relevant that we make that point to him and i hope he will come back on that in his response. the second point i wanted to raise is in response to the spokesman from the efd group with regard to the united kingdom and the fact that he was blaming the closure of sub-post offices in the united kingdom on this liberalisation process. we need to nail that lie very strongly. the closure of sub-post offices in the united kingdom was a decision of the united kingdom. it was a decision that came about because the uk government reduced its subsidy to sub-post offices and it changed its payments of benefits into a direct payments method. that was one of the major reasons why, along with royal mail cutbacks, sub-post offices closed in the united kingdom. finally, the idea of a uk opt-out is one of the most hilarious things i have ever heard in my life as far as postal services are concerned. why? the most hezbollah, pro-liberal, ‘let’s get on with it quicker than any other government’ government in europe on liberalisation was the united kingdom’s own government, from thatcher to major to blair... (the president cut off the speaker).
mr president, 48 hours from now, as millions of muslims will still be celebrating eid and the world will be remembering the terrorist atrocity of 9/11, a koran burning has been planned to coincide with this in florida, usa. this act has been denounced by the us administration and the vatican. i hope this house will do likewise. (applause) this extreme act of koran burning is the act of one man and his followers alone. his actions should not be identified with the west or christianity. muslims globally must be told that, through this koran burning, that pastor will achieve nothing. he has been isolated in his country and by his religion. it is only through a reaction that any perverse sense of achievement can be earned. (sustained applause)
mr president, irrespective of the merits of mr karim’s remarks, i fail to see how that was a point of order. if anybody else had stood up to make a statement, you would have asked them under which rule they were speaking. can you please tell me how that was a point of order?
mr president, i notice that there were a large number of people holding up banners. i understand this is against the rules, but you did not say anything about it. if they can hold up their banner, can i hold up mine, please? it reads: ‘say no to the european union’. (applause from the efd group) can we have one set of rules that applies for everybody, please? is that possible?
mr president, there are moments in this chamber when the order paper is beyond parody. the report on ‘better lawmaking’ comes from the same institutions that have turned this part of the world into the most over-regulated and least competitive bloc on the planet, that have brought us the bureaucratic nightmare of the common agricultural policy, the ecological calamity of the common fisheries policy. but let me try and be constructive. here is an idea for better lawmaking: let us try not to be declamatory when we make legislation. let us try not to use the statutes of this house as a way of showing that we are nice people, that we care about unemployment, that we care about the roma or longer working hours or whatever it is. heavy-handed intervention by the state is not usually the best way to solve problems. we are far better off allowing decisions to be taken as closely as possible to the people that they affect. so my modest proposal for better lawmaking is that we close down this parliament for the next six months on an experimental basis, we do not pass any legislation at all, and we see whether our constituents complain about it.
mr president, i did not vote in favour of any of these resolutions because, as a matter of principle, i do not recognise the democratic legitimacy of the european union, and i never will. however, it should, of course, be the right of sovereign nations to decide who can and cannot enter their territories, and on what basis. eu states have abdicated that right by recognising the supremacy of eu law, and in particular by adopting directive 2004/38/ec on the free movement of people. the french cannot have it both ways. they cannot be full members of the european union and then discriminate against romanian gypsies. if the french do not like it, then i suggest that they adopt the policy of the uk independence party, which is to leave the european union and regain their sovereignty.
in writing. − i and my ecr group colleagues agree with much of this resolution and we remain wholeheartedly committed to providing equal rights, opportunities and the freedoms laid out within eu law for all people, regardless of race, religion, gender or sexual orientation. however, whilst we fully support the integration of the roma people within the european union, we believe that the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, should complete a thorough legal investigation into the matter before this parliament makes its final judgement. for these reasons we have abstained on this resolution.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on kenya: failure to arrest president omar al-bashir see minutes..
author. − madam president, president omar al-bashir of sudan has been indicted on charges of genocide by the international criminal court for allegedly ordering terrible crimes in darfur. he is hardly the sort of person you would want to make a guest of honour, and turkey had to back down from inviting him to the oic conference on ankara last year because of the icc indictment. sadly, that is exactly what kenya’s president did recently at the ceremony to mark the promulgation of the new constitution of kenya. admittedly, many government ministers in kenya’s fragile coalition, including prime minister odinga, were very uneasy about bashir’s presence, but the damage has been done and kenya’s reputation as a regional leader, in that it is both a democracy and upholds international law, is now besmirched. the icc was established precisely so that high-ranking officials, even heads of sovereign states, could be called to answer for their alleged crimes when these became crimes against the whole of humanity, or genocide, or war crimes and therefore subject to universal jurisdiction for rome statute signatories. kenya’s refusal to honour its obligations as an icc member is therefore deplorable. however, recent news that kenya will cooperate fully with the icc as it investigates the tragic post-election violence of three years ago is to be welcomed, even if it is long overdue and seems to be a consequence of the furore over the bashir case.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in syria, in particular the case of haythan al - maleh see minutes..
author. − madam president, last year i met the son of haythan al-maleh in brussels. he was seeking support for the release of his father. mr al-maleh has a distinguished history as a human rights defender and jurist, and has been a frequent critic of the al-assad baathist dictatorship in syria over the years. mr al-maleh is a sickly elderly gentleman and should be released on humanitarian grounds – not that he has committed any crimes, except falling foul of the emergency and repressive laws against dissidents in syria that have been in place for more than 40 years. syria, sadly, is a problematic state harbouring known terrorists, having suspicious arms dealings with north korea – including possible nuclear ambitions – and being close to that very roguish state, iran, on political grounds. i appeal now to the syrian leadership and its president to improve its deplorable human rights record and release mr al-maleh.
mr posselt, you do not need to appeal to me, it is already going to happen. the debate is closed. the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes) written statements (rule 149)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 16.05)
mr president, thank you for the announcement you made today. people across the whole of europe, and in particular in my country, the united kingdom, will be appalled at what a mess we are in. we come to strasbourg once a month – twice this month – to sit, which is a complete and utter farce. the voting could take place quite easily in brussels when we are there. the extra cost every time we come is millions and millions of euros, throughout a period of time. surely the time has now come for us to wake up – for you to wake up, and for this parliament to wake up – to the fact that we should not meet in this place at all. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, yes, on behalf of the ecr group, i would like formally to move postponement of the vote on thursday. i want to make it clear it is only the vote that we are referring to, and not the rest of the order of business. i do so because, as you yourself described in detail at the outset of this meeting, members will face potential problems on thursday travelling back to their home countries; indeed i know of many members from across the house who are actually planning to leave strasbourg on wednesday. it is therefore perfectly reasonable to ask for a delay of what will be about two weeks in taking the vote on this particular item, and for it to be deferred to the mini-plenary session in brussels.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i wish to thank our rapporteur for her hard work on this important dossier. i want to concentrate on two issues contained in the report: firstly, on how to improve the investigation of air accidents and, secondly, on the issue of the rights of victims and relatives of those involved in such accidents. the transport committee has, i believe, strengthened a number of provisions initially proposed by the commission. in particular, we have, as our rapporteur has said, clarified the role of easa in air accident investigations to ensure that accident investigation is independent and above interference. we cannot allow the regulator also to be an investigator. hence the clear definition of easa’s role as an adviser, as defined by the icao in annex 13. we have also extended our support to the establishment of a european network of investigation authorities and the need for data to be analysed on a europe-wide basis so as to help improve the quality of air accident investigations across the whole of europe. it is also crucial to point out the need for an effective occurrence-reporting system and the sharing of relevant information arising from incidents, as well as for payment of adequate compensation. parliament has also, in this revision, raised an opportunity to revisit the area of protecting the rights of victims and relatives by insisting that assistance and information be made available within two hours. finally, i would point out to the commission the need to revise the occurrence-reporting directive so that the two directives can complement each other. i believe this to be an excellent piece of work and i congratulate our rapporteurs and the shadows for their efforts.
author. − madam president, i wish to thank mr sógor for his work. however, the s&d voted against this agreement in committee for two very basic reasons, both based on the protection of human rights. we believe that respect for international conventions is not fully guaranteed in this agreement. in particular, pakistan is not a signatory to the 1951 geneva refugee convention, and this creates an unstable situation. it seems logical to us and our group that signing basic international conventions such as these should be a necessary precursor to signing readmission agreements. the eu is currently a signatory to 11 readmission agreements; it has entered into negotiations on seven more, two of which – pakistan and georgia – are on the point of being concluded and one, turkey, is to be signed very shortly. therefore, this is not something that parliament will have to consider only once, on this occasion. with its consent powers, parliament’s concerns about human rights need to be considered by the commission when it is negotiating these agreements. we cannot be expected to rubber stamp agreements when fundamental rights are still in question. so for our group it is vital that, before giving consent to such agreements, parliament is in full possession of the facts. however, despite that first such agreement entering into force in 2004, there has been no evidence-based evaluation of the effectiveness of such instruments and the consequences of their implementation. for that reason, the s&d group calls on the commissioner to carry out such an evaluation as soon as possible. we believe in these readmission agreements, but they must be based on fundamental human rights and safeguards. pakistan is one of the few countries which have not signed the geneva refugee convention, and that for us creates a difficult situation.
madam president, the case for returning illegal pakistani immigrants to their country of origin is self-evidently valid. the main question to be asked is why there should have to be an agreement with pakistan for them to be allowed to enter their own country. i ought to be surprised, but i am not. there are those who object to their being returned even with pakistan’s permission. their objection appears to be that pakistan does not comply with the relevant human rights standards. that is quite true. but it is also true of most third world countries – and indeed some european ones. are they suggesting that all illegal immigrants from countries with flawed human rights standards should be allowed to stay? if they really believe that, we must ask why they are content for the remaining populations of those dangerous countries to remain in them. should we not be inviting the entire populations of pakistan, china, afghanistan, the middle east, latin america and africa to move to the european union? that is the logical absurdity of their position.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the report describes turkey as having the sixth biggest economy in europe. well, as a question of fact, the total land area of the country that is turkey is over 300 000 square miles, and of that just three and a half percent – less than 10 000 square miles – is actually in europe. only the eu could categorise turkey as a european country! the eu has had this customs union with turkey since 1995. that is highly unusual. indeed, monaco and andorra are the only other such countries. let me make a key point. the existence, and indeed success, of the customs union makes turkish membership of the eu, leading to full political union – with all the far-reaching consequences that follow therefrom – wholly and totally unnecessary. that is something which will be argued about in europe for some time to come.
mr president, has it occurred to the speaker that the reformed constitution to which he referred also had the effect of significantly undermining the independence of the judiciary, and is that something of which he approves?
mr president, this report very wisely recognised the role of farmers in conserving biodiversity, and their contribution to good environmental practices in general. as we discuss the imminent reform of the common agricultural policy, one of the main arguments in the debate is beginning to focus on the responsibility of farmers in this regard and how they should be compensated for these environmental benefits or public goods which they deliver. i do think that we have to change our approach to this issue. i want to see farmers encouraged to engage in agri-environmental measures rather than being subject to stringent cross-compliance rules. in this regard, i am an advocate of the carrot rather than the stick. ms de lange’s report mentions the idea of an extra direct top-up payment, which i believe is a very interesting idea and would encourage farmers to do more to help protect the environment. i do not agree with those who say we need a soil directive. i do not believe we need that. we have enough tools in the box. we need to take up the challenges facing us at the present time in this area, and i have no doubt we will be able to do that in the reforms.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 21 september 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
the next speaker is mr batten, who has the distinction of being the first politician in history to wear his party colours.
mr president, it seems that nick clegg, the uk deputy prime minister, will soon announce the coalition government’s decision to comply with the ruling of the european court of human rights and grant the vote to inmates of her majesty’s prisons. a spokesman for mr david cameron, the prime minister, has reportedly said that it would be ‘unfortunate’ if the blanket ban was lifted entirely. he did not go on to explain why a partial ban might be more acceptable morally and why a thug, burglar or thief should have the vote rather than a murderer, rapist or paedophile. it is an insult to the law-abiding and the victims of crime that those who break the law should also have the right to elect lawmakers. i can say one thing with absolute certainty, which is that in the next manifesto of the uk independence party there will be a commitment to repeal any such law.
depending on who is the leader of ukip.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by pablo arias echeverría, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on completing the internal market for e-commerce (a7-0226/2010).
that concludes the item. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (tuesday, 21 september 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by marielle gallo, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market (com(2009)0467 - 2009/2178(ini)) (a7-0175/2010).
i am sure the commission can satisfy everybody. mr barnier, you have the floor.
thank you, commissioner, that was very well received. that concludes the item. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (tuesday, 21 september 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission communication: a community approach on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters (com(2009)0082 - 2009/2151(ini)) (a7-0227/2010).
the message is: ‘do not abandon bandon’!
thank you very much. we are grateful to you also for the greek word ‘catastrophe’.
− that concludes the item. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (tuesday, 21 september 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by eleni theocharous, on behalf of the committee on development, on poverty reduction and job creation in developing countries: the way forward (2009/2171(ini) (a7-0192/2010).
− that concludes the item. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (tuesday, 21 september 2010). written statements (rule 149)
mr president, lawyers chase ambulances: where there is an accident, there is a parasite rushing in to profit from someone’s misfortune. the advocates of european union are ambulance-chasers extraordinaire: from the fantasy of man-made global warming, to earthquakes and forest fires, every crisis becomes an excuse to grab even more power. the russia-ukraine gas crisis was an artificial problem caused by neo-con interference in the politics of eastern europe. the answer is to stop ‘baiting the bear’ and to leave the nations of europe free to buy the gas that russia needs to sell us. instead, the crisis is used as an excuse for the eu to seize control of gas supplies and ensnare us all in a web of interdependence designed to enforce the union that voters would never approve. this is not about gas supplies. it is the creeping tyranny of a socialist superstate using deceit to grab what it cannot get democratically. when it drops the mask of reasonable necessity, its new fascism will be imposed, not with castor oil, but with deadly cold. that is why freedom lovers will vote against this report.
madam president, this summit will be of great importance to the eu. we need to make sure that it is also important for china. i have no doubt that china wants a strong, integrated europe. it wants a multipolar – not a bipolar – world, and we should welcome that. we therefore need to ensure that the eu has a strong, coordinated approach on many important issues – for example, on trade links and on ipr, to help us access the huge and growing chinese market, but also on climate change and energy. energy, in particular, is a vital issue for both the eu and china. therefore, i believe that cooperation on such things as clean energy technology is an important topic for us to discuss. we should have discussions on the exchange of technology such as ccs. this will help us improve our environment and will be good for our energy policy.
madam president, the prc remains a ruthless communist dictatorship, but every day capitalist china achieves another economic record. it is about to overtake japan as the world’s second economy and is already – astonishingly – far and away brazil’s number one trading partner, as china goes truly global. we all know of its massive scramble for natural resources in africa and its shameful backing for the indicted war criminal, president bashir, in sudan and the mugabe dictatorship in zimbabwe. i worry about the risk of a proxy war in sudan, with china backing the north and the americans the south, in the south’s quest for independence. at this summit, i do hope that ratification of the iccpr and reform of the notorious laogai labour camps will also be raised. once piece of good news in my view – and i speak as president of the ep-taiwan friendship group – is that communist china, the prc, is now treating taiwan with much more respect and there is much more detente across the straits.
madam president, in the first three months of last year, the united kingdom imported more than four times the value of goods from china than it exported to that country. the eu as a whole is facing a similar threat from a growing chinese economy. in 2009, the eu imported goods worth eur 215 billion from china but exported goods worth only eur 82 billion. we might have expected to compensate for that deficit in trade by a favourable surplus in the trade in services, but the surplus there was a paltry eur 5 billion. we are allowing the chinese to destroy the industries and jobs of the nation states of europe by embracing globalism and opening our markets to low-wage goods with which we simply cannot compete. we must stop importing goods that are destroying our industries and destroying the jobs of our peoples.
mr president, i do object, not because i object to it being a roll-call vote but because – as i have said in this chamber many times before – we should have one set of rules that applies evenly to everybody. if one of us stood up and asked whether we could have a roll-call vote on something else, it would be denied. if we have rules, we must follow the rules.
madam president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain my views on this vote. i think we all agree that this is very important: there are still far too many barriers to e-commerce. it is important that we are able to purchase both digital and physical goods on the internet across the eu. i welcome any initiatives which break down barriers within the eu to achieve that. that is probably one of the positive things about the european union. at the same time, however, there is so much more commerce which is involved with the rest of the world, and i would hope that we are not then seeking legislation on a global scale, but better coordination between different jurisdictions to ensure that we break down barriers and that citizens of countries within the european union are able to take advantage of cheaper prices in the rest of the world and to buy products, goods and services from the rest of the world over the internet. at the same time, we should recognise that, as there is an abundance of bandwidth, storage and data, prices will tend towards zero, and over time the prices of some digital products will come down to zero.
madam president, constituents of mine in business will look at a report like this with weary resignation. here are all the trite, clichéd phrases that we associate with eu directives: ‘e-commerce is a vital force of the internet’; ‘an important catalyst for achieving the aims of the eu 2020 strategy’; ‘it is important for all stakeholders to cooperate’. this does nothing to facilitate actual commerce and free exchange. you do not need directives and regulations to allow businesses to buy and sell to each other: it is what they do, without having to be expressly legalised. when one of my constituents is selling by internet to a company on the other side of the world, in australia or new zealand, they manage to do it without the regulatory superstructure of the eu’s single market. in fact, they often do it with far fewer problems than when trying to negotiate their way through the tangle of european rules, which perhaps explains why, in the years of our membership of the european union, our trade has been in surplus with every continent in the world except europe. it perhaps explains now why, with the rise of the technological revolution, my constituents are rediscovering their global vocation.
madam president, i abstained on the vote on an agreement between the european union and pakistan. the agreement appears to enhance the ability of nation states, or member states i should say, to return illegal immigrants to pakistan. on the face of it, that would seem to be desirable for the united kingdom, but it should only be for britain, as an independent sovereign nation state, to decide who can and cannot enter her borders. to vote in favour of this agreement would be to cede that right to the european union, which is something i could not possibly do. britain must gain control of its immigration policy, legal and illegal, and not surrender it to the european union.
madam president, i think there will be consensus across this house. i do not think anyone can be against the idea of poverty reduction and job creation in developing countries. a couple of years ago i ran a workshop in côte d’ivoire, where i spoke to young african politicians. i asked how we from the european union could help them. they gave me a number of pointers. firstly, they said that we should make sure that the aid we send to them does not help to keep corrupt governments in power. all too often, that is the problem. secondly, they said that we should encourage open markets and liberalisation, making sure they get away from state monopolies that provide them with bad services. thirdly, we should reform the common agricultural policy – or get rid of it – and get rid of those subsidies that allow farmers in the eu to undercut farmers in developing countries. they also said that we should get rid of ideas about border adjustment measures, which is basically green imperialism to keep imports from developing countries out. finally, we are discussing the alternative investment fund managers directive. the epp, the socialists and the greens are looking to ban investment in developing countries. we must tackle that sort of economic nonsense.
in writing. − volumes of air traffic have increased steadily in recent years. this naturally brings with it increased risks of accident and it is vital that adequate processes are put in place to minimise those risks. this report goes some way to improving the legislative framework and i accordingly voted in favour.
in writing. − in recent years, there have been a number of disruptions to gas supplies across the eu caused by disputes between suppliers and transit countries, including the russia-ukraine gas dispute of january 2009. these disruptions demonstrate a pressing need for the eu to diversify its gas supply. i particularly welcome the report's call for an assessment of the benefits of lng installations. in wales, we have a state-of-the-art facility in south hook, milford haven, which could make a huge contribution to alleviating some of the eu's dependence on imports of gas, which often come from unstable and undemocratic parts of the world.
in writing. − i voted against this recommendation. whilst pakistan receives more refugees than any other country in the world, it is not a signatory to the geneva convention on refugees. the eu must not be in the business of deporting people whilst having no regard for their fundamental rights; we must ensure that human rights are guaranteed.
in writing. − the amendment allows the many people in the eu, and the meps who represent them, to signal their unhappiness and opposition to turkish membership and the concomitant political union. however, we do not want this to be at the expense of supporting free trade with turkey – and without tariff barriers – so much of the report is unchanged. many choices are invidious: free trade agreements allow tariff barriers. customs unions eliminate them internally but continue to allow and even erect them externally. and, of course, customs unions limit and prohibit members' freedom of commercial negotiation. despite these concerns about customs unions as a concept, in the context of turkey’s circumstances, we are accepting that part of the report’s content relating to the customs union because it allows those against full turkish eu membership to register their vote. it should be noted that in the event only 38 meps out of 736 put their vote against turkey entering political union.
in writing. − the amendment allows the many people in the eu, and the meps who represent them, to signal their unhappiness and opposition to turkish membership and the concomitant political union. however, we do not want this to be at the expense of supporting free trade with turkey – and without tariff barriers – so much of the report is unchanged. many choices are invidious: free-trade agreements allow tariff barriers. customs unions eliminate them internally but continue to allow and even erect them externally. and, of course, customs unions limit and prohibit members’ freedom of commercial negotiation. despite these concerns about customs unions, we are, in the context of turkish circumstances, running with the customs union because it allows those against turkish membership to say so.
in writing. − the amendment allows the many people in the eu, and the meps who represent them, to signal their unhappiness and opposition to turkish membership and the concomitant political union. however, we do not want this to be at the expense of supporting free trade with turkey - and without tariff barriers - so much of the report is unchanged. many choices are invidious: free trade agreements allow tariff barriers. customs unions eliminate them internally but continue to allow and even erect them externally. and, of course, customs unions limit and prohibit members' freedom of commercial negotiation. despite these concerns about customs unions as a concept, in the context of turkey's circumstances we are accepting that part of the report's content relating to the customs union because it allows those against full turkish eu membership to register their vote. it should be noted that in the event only 38 meps out of 736 put their vote against turkey entering political union.
in writing. − the subject matter of this report is huge and the conservation of biodiversity cuts across a vast swathe of policy areas. many environmental issues are of a nature which justifies intervention at eu level. equally, many issues are best managed at a more local level, and there must be full respect for the principle of subsidiarity. this report calls for clear action in a number of areas, and it is important that both the commission and the member states take note.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the eu has not met its targets to halt biodiversity loss by 2010, as protecting our biodiversity is of great importance for ethical, ecological, as well as economic reasons. it is an issue that cannot merely be reliant on public spending, but should also form part of corporate responsibility strategies across the eu to stop any further destruction of ecosystems and repair them where possible. i have supported the proposal to halt biodiversity loss by 2020, particularly as my constituency, wales, has such a huge variety of ecosystems to offer. i also believe achieving this target will allow the eu to be a global leader in its efforts to protect and preserve our biodiversity, and demonstrate to developing nations our commitment to the 2015 millennium development goals.
in writing. − mr ferreira’s report highlights the numerous potential causes of disaster and, of these, potentially the most serious in the long-term are accidents involving nuclear material. large areas of the eu are to this day still suffering as a result of the chernobyl disaster and it is my belief that there is no such thing as safe nuclear energy. a number of governments across the eu are intent on building new nuclear power stations, thereby simply increasing the chances of future nuclear disasters. my party and the scottish government remain firmly of the opinion that our energy needs must lie in non-nuclear power.
in writing. − amongst the many good points contained in this report on developing countries, there is a call for a rethink of privatisation policy, particularly in areas such as water and sanitation. i consider that such a rethink applies as much to the developed world and believe that water services are of such fundamental importance that they should be allowed to exist purely for the public good and not for private profit.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am sure everybody in this room has taken pharmaceutical products at some time or other. the safety of those products is of paramount importance for public health. last week, at a meeting of experts to talk about this new legislation, we were reminded that 2010 marks the 50th anniversary of thalidomide. anybody my age will certainly remember what thalidomide meant: the images of children born with no limbs. lessons were learned from that experience, and, over the years, governments developed pharmacovigilance systems to monitor the safety of medicines, because it became clear that clinical trials alone would never be enough to ensure that, when we put medicines out into the public domain, we would know all the side effects in advance. improvements have been made. last week, experts told us that, with the improvements we have already made, it would have taken only a handful of cases of thalidomide to actually identify the problem. in the 1960s, it took 2 000 cases before the problem was picked up. in recent years in europe, we have been working at european level to develop a coherent system between member states and the european medicines agency in london on pharmacovigilance. it is very clear that we need to work together. with a pool of 500 million people, it is much easier and quicker to pick up an adverse reaction than working separately at national level. the creation of the medicines agency, a network of agencies in each country, underpinned by eu law, has helped us to make such progress. the practical tools we have created – like the eudravigilance database, the biggest in the world – help us to reduce the amount of time we need to identify adverse reactions. but we need further improvements. since thalidomide in the 1960s, we have seen problems with drugs like vioxx and, very recently, with the diabetes drug avandia. i believe that the package of laws that meps and the council have agreed on, negotiated at first reading and to be put to this house tomorrow, is a very good package and one which will further improve pharmacovigilance in the european union. what are the key changes? first, there is the creation of the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee, which is a beefed-up safety committee that separates medicine safety from the approval of medical products. it will include experts, not just from national governments, but also from among patients and healthcare professionals. we are improving information to patients, direct patient reporting to national authorities, and a notice on patient information leaflets encouraging people to report any adverse reactions. there will be a black symbol on new products. at the moment, healthcare professionals know when they give you, as a patient, a new product. they know they should be looking out especially for adverse reactions but you, as a patient do not know this. there will be better public information: a one-stop-shop web portal on medicines, bringing together all the different information about medicine safety, the patient information leaflet – the kind of information that at the moment you have got to spend hours putting together. there will be gains for companies in terms of streamlining procedures, cutting out duplication in reporting and freeing up resources for more important research work. these are changes which i believe will vastly improve the whole system of pharmacovigilance in europe. finally, i would like to thank the people who have helped us get where we are today, as well as my shadow rapporteurs. it is a very complex dossier and we were very lucky to have such expert colleagues amongst us. dolores montero, from the spanish council presidency is here with us today. she and her team did an excellent job, as did the parliament’s secretariat, jo wood from the socialist group and my own researcher, kiri hanks, who made a major contribution to getting the issues clarified, on the table, and helping us. i should also like to thank the commission and council secretariats, and the many organisations who sent in information and who helped us to understand the issues from their point of view – patients’ organisations, pharmacists’ groups, doctors, companies and the national regulators. this has been a great team effort and we now have to work together to implement the legislation properly.
mr president, marina yannakoudakis, our shadow rapporteur, sends her apologies; she is unable to be in strasbourg this week but she has asked me to pay particular credit to linda mcavan for the very fruitful and cooperative way that she has worked with the other groups in drafting this legislation. the aim of it is to strengthen the community pharmacovigilance system of medicinal products for human use and we certainly believe that we have reached an agreement which will ensure, firstly, a more robust system of risk assessment, secondly, an improved system for marketing authorisations and post-authorisation safety and efficacy studies, thirdly, a better and more efficient means of reporting of any adverse drug reactions and fourthly, of course, greater transparency and medicinal safety. patients will also have better access, through web portals, to information regarding potential side effects of medicines, and these measures, we believe, will be of benefit first and foremost to european patients and citizens, but will also clarify and simplify the roles of the commission, member states, and risk assessment committees and pharmaceutical companies in ensuring the highest possible levels of patient safety throughout the eu.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would first like to respond to some of the points raised. colleagues talked about transparency: i think that what we have achieved is a big breakthrough in transparency. the amount of information that will be made public through the web portals is a huge increase on what we have already. on the independence of the work on pharmacovigilance: it was the amendment from this parliament which has now separated authorisation from pharmacovigilance and makes sure it is the pharmacovigilance committee that will make the recommendation, which can only be overturned if there is a very strong reason. so we have done a big job in establishing this independence and improving it. the commission: there is a lot of work for the commission to do after this legislation is approved tomorrow. i think we will achieve a big majority in the house. there is a lot of work to do on the patient information leaflet, with a lot of dissatisfaction from patients’ organisations and from individual patients about it. you tried to find a solution in the commission. it was not one which found acceptance. but we want to work with you to have a good patient information leaflet. the leaflet cannot be a repository for every possible thing that can happen to a patient, because that makes the leaflet useless in the eyes of the average patient. it has got to make sense. it has to prioritise information. we need to work with you on that. you are going to do the study on the environmental impacts of medicine. that is very important, and we want to see the black symbol. we want that symbol developed, we do not want to see it go away, like it did on the medicines for children, the paediatric medicines. we want to see that symbol soon. for the member states, an awful lot of work on the web portals has to be done. we want to see these up and running and a timetable for when they are being established. it is vital, as the commission has said, that people get information in their own language, and the member states also have to set up their direct reporting systems. it is a lot of work for national agencies. for the ema, there will be an increase in work, and we have to resource it properly. we discussed this at length in the negotiations and want to see that happen. thank you once again to everybody concerned. i hope we will get a big majority tomorrow and then the real work can start to make a difference, on the ground, to people’s lives.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i should like to thank mrs klaß. in my 60 seconds i can only mention two issues in this important and complex dossier. the first is the issue of pbts – persistent bioaccumulative and toxic substances. biocides are by their nature toxic: they kill something, usually something nasty which is a danger to human health and often to animal health. so if anyone is tempted to vote in favour of amendment 61, which would make toxicity the lone criteria for substitution, then beware: you will be cutting across the whole rationale of protecting public health and the environment. this brings me to my second point: the substance difenacoum. amendment 243 seeks to restrict the use of this rodenticide to professionals only. a quick look in my local store at the weekend confirmed this active substance to be in about half of the products available, and all with clear instructions for use. rodenticides create resistance: they need to be used in rotation to remain effective. taking one product away will upset this balance and could lead to a major public health disaster. please, colleagues, do not be instrumental in letting this happen.
mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for her hard work. the regulation of biocides and biocidal products requires a balanced approach which takes into consideration the interests of manufacturers, on the one hand, and the welfare and safety of consumers and our environment, on the other. i wish to say a few words on one aspect of this report. i was very concerned with the initial proposal from the commission, which may have led to a ban on rodenticides. these substances are the most widely used products in the fight against rodent infestations and are a vitally important tool in the agricultural and agrifood sector. i have received many representations from farmers and public bodies in my constituency, and other interested parties, who are totally opposed to such a ban, arguing that it would have serious negative implications for their respective industries. while the agriculture lobby may not be 100% happy with this regulation as it stands, i was reassured to see that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety passed some amendments which will hopefully go some way towards guaranteeing the exemption of these rodenticides. in this regard i would urge colleagues to uphold the committee’s position and vote for the relevant amendments in tomorrow’s debate.
mr president, i must say that it is quite enthusing to see that there are so many meps who treat this place with the contempt i do. out of the 736, there are fewer than 30 of them here – which is under five percent – and it is half four on a tuesday afternoon. as usual, eu rules and regulations are running out of control. but that is nothing compared to the rats and mice that will run out of control when the eu takes away common rat poison from ordinary householders. this is what amendment 243 of this report will do. this daft piece of legislation will ensure that only professionals will be allowed to put down rat poison, which is freely available in shops. so, if rats are in your front garden, spreading their diseases and chewing everything up, the ordinary uk householder will be forced to wait for the council ratcatcher or have to pay for rentokil. we are already told that you are never further than 20 yards away from a rat in a city centre in the uk. this piece of crazy legislation will only make things worse. to put this into perspective, this is a piece of bureaucracy for a rat poison that has been safely used by ordinary folk for the past 30 years – not only in the uk, but across europe and in the usa. i will finish by asking a question. why are you doing this? do you want more vermin? do you want more disease? or is it just about control and your obsession with trying to govern every single aspect of our lives?
mr president, it is good to hear the uk independence party confirming that they do not care a jot about animal cruelty, that they are happy to have the world treated like a giant chemistry set. thalidomide and ddt would be on everyone’s breakfast table if they had their way. a concern has been raised here that we have seen in british newspapers, about the effect of banning anti-coagulant rodenticides and the question of whether this will lead to rat infestations in cities and towns. we have worked with the commission; we have raised the issues brought to our attention by professionals; and working with the commission, changes have been made. they are now in article 5, and i believe they have the support of the commission. that should deal with the major problem which has been expressed. but there is the issue that mrs girling has raised: article 44 about difenacoum. i would like the commission to explain whether it supports amendment 243, because it seems to me that it contradicts in some ways the changes being proposed to article 5.
mr president, i am delighted that attempts to ban all anticoagulants and rodenticides have failed. had such a ban won majority support, it would have led – as we have heard already – to an explosion of rats and mice across europe, with the consequent damage to stored crops, farms and domestic properties on a large scale. it is estimated that seven per cent of all house fires and 50 per cent of all farm fires are caused by rodents gnawing electric cables. sadly, the environment committee did adopt one specific ban of a widely used second-generation anticoagulant rodenticide. as we have heard, that rodenticide is difenacoum. i hope the house will vote against amendment 243 so as to enable this effective rat poison to continue in use, particularly as it has already undergone rigorous scientific assessment and has been through a proper and detailed regulatory process.
mr president, the aim of this regulation is to protect public health and the environment. the current regime for authorisation is too slow and bureaucratic. we must ensure that the authorisation of new products is more efficient, both in time and money. pest control is central to the protection of human health. i welcome the amendments that will improve the availability of some products that kill rodents but, as has already been discussed, a problem remains over the treatment of difenacoum. this is an effective and widely-used rodenticide. it should be classified as an authorised substance. it is essential to the effective control of rats and mice. its removal from annex i by the commission is simply irrational, and i invite the commission to explain why this occurred. the authorisation of products should always be based on the result of scientific assessment, not by politicians seeking to grab a headline.
mr president, the adoption of the report by ms klaß would undoubtedly see an explosion in rat populations, jeopardising sanitation in homes and on farms. rats carry diseases such as e-coli and salmonella and can cause significant damage to property, in some cases leading to electrical fires. farms, especially, fall victim to rat infestations without effective pest extermination. anti-coagulants are the most widely-used method of rat poisoning and are by far the most effective, accounting for around 95% of rodent control. in may, i directed a written question to the commission requesting formal acknowledgement of the implications of a ban and sought a support framework for those affected, as well as indications as to possible alternative pest control. the commission stated they were open to discussion with the aim of ensuring that appropriate solutions were found. what kind of solution does the commission propose? has there been an impact assessment into the prohibition of anti-coagulants as rodenticides? will there be a viable support framework and have alternative rodenticides been identified?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (wednesday, 22 september 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by lászló surján, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council’s position on draft amending budget no 7/2010 of the european union for the financial year 2010, section iii - commission (13476/2010 - c7-0261/2010 - 2010/2120(bud)) (a7-0250/2010).
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, tomorrow we will be voting on draft amending budget no 7, which covers the guarantee that the eu has been asked to provide for the european financial stabilisation mechanism. this mechanism, which makes it possible for the union to borrow funds in the capital market and then loan to member states in financial difficulties, implies that if a member state is not able to reimburse the loan, the european budget would be used to cover the debt. colleagues, i call your attention to the fact that the guarantors of this financial stabilisation package are actually the member states, many of which are themselves in the midst of a financial crisis. we are talking about eur 60 billion. this is not a token. where are we planning to find the money if the guarantee has to be honoured? how can we vote in favour of such an amending budget when the commission has not established priorities for spending from the budget in case the european union is called to honour the guarantee? if we act responsibly in defence of constituents’ interests – even if we are being told that the risk is low – we should vote against this resolution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (wednesday, 22 september 2010). (the sitting was suspended at 18.35 and resumed at 19.00)
the next item is question time (b7-0462/2010). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question 22 by marian harkin (h-0414/10) subject: regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 taking into account regulation (ec) 1083/2006 oj l 210 of 31.7.2006, p. 25 and the effects of the current economic crisis combined with the effects of globalisation on employment levels throughout the eu, what specific measures or checks has the commission put in place to ensure that when companies make workers redundant in one member state the same company has not received any structural fund monies in the last five years in another member state?
as the author is not present, question 23 lapses. part two
i just want to make the point that we have to close the sitting at 20.30. we will therefore probably be able to get in the questions by mr tarabella, mrs ţicău, mr chountis and mr iacolino, but i doubt we will be able to take the others.
question 25 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0417/10) subject: regional cooperation in energy-related matters the commission has announced that in 2010 it will issue a communication setting out recommendations and best practices with regard to regional cooperation in energy-related matters. this year the commission will also publish a report on the implementation of the european economic recovery plan, which will also include an assessment of the state of implementation of energy-related projects. i should like to ask the commission whether regional cooperation measures concerning energy will also include the development of 'intelligent' energy infrastructure (smart grids) at the macro-regional level, thereby helping to reduce energy consumption and enabling renewable energy sources to be used in a decentralised system? furthermore, considering that in 2010 member states can adjust their operational programmes, i should like to ask the commission when it will adopt this communication?
we now move to question 26 by mr chountis which is being addressed by mr hadjigeorgiou. it is likely that we will be able to get to the question by mr iacolino, but i am afraid that questions 28, 29, 30 and 31 will be answered in writing. i apologise in advance to those colleagues who are here or waiting in their offices.
question 27 by salvatore iacolino (h-0420/10) subject: oil drilling in the mediterranean a few months after the incident in the gulf of mexico and under an agreement concluded in 2007, british petroleum is apparently preparing to begin drilling five new oil wells in libyan territorial waters some 600 kilometres from the coasts of sicily, malta and greece. in view of the extraordinary biodiversity of the mediterranean and the fact that it is a closed sea with limited water renewal, will the commission answer the following questions: will it introduce stricter controls on drilling at sea and, if so, how? would it be feasible to introduce a moratorium on drilling in the mediterranean? will it urge libya to take account of the cross-border environmental impact of these operations? will it consider introducing the offence of environmental crime at european level so as to deter hazardous activities in areas belonging to the member states? will it examine the possibility of binding oil companies operating in europe to a strict code of conduct that will safeguard the public and the environment, as well as business activities of the kind successfully developed over time in the mediterranean region?
i apologise about questions 28 to 32 but they will be answered in writing. as i said at the beginning, we are under some time pressure this evening. we now come to questions to mr geoghegan-quinn. we shall start with question 33 by mr tsoukalas. i would expect that we can get through to question 35 at least, and then we will see how we get on.
as i have said from the outset, we are under some time pressure and i am going to move at 20.15 to questions to mr hahn. i fear, mr kelly, that we will not get to your question 36, or indeed to successive questions thereafter, that is, questions 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41.
question 35 by pat the cope gallagher (h-0409/10) subject: participation of smes in eu research programmes can the commission outline what it is doing to increase the level of participation of small to medium-sized enterprises within eu research programmes?
question 42 by bernd posselt (h-0400/10) subject: danube strategy and euroregions what role does bavaria and austria's cooperation with the czech republic play in the danube strategy and how much account does the eu take of culture and tourism when providing support for the euroregions concerned?
question 44 by richard howitt (h-0445/10) subject: cash gap for local groups depending on eu regional funds the british government’s decision to disband the uk regional development agencies (rdas) means that european funding under the erdf, the european social fund and rural development programmes which, in my east of england constituency, had previously been delivered by the east of england development agency, will now have to be delivered in an alternative way in the uk. as any changes in the management and control system for eu programmes have to be approved by the commission, can the commission say what consultations have already taken place with the uk government on this issue and confirm whether eu payments may be suspended pending commission approval of any changes to the management and control system? what interim arrangements might be put in place to ensure that local people and community groups who benefit from these european funds in my own and other uk regions will not suffer from a cash shortfall stemming from the uk government's decision to abolish the rdas?
thank you, mr president, as ever, for your great impartiality and support for this democratic process. i will be quick and also respect the timing. commissioner, in my question i asked what consultations had already taken place between the commission and the uk government about their new plans. this is a very factual question. has any consultation taken place at all, and if so, what? i think it right to put that before you. will you accept today, in this chamber, that the structural fund regulation’s requirements both for additionality and for partnership are fundamental, and that you will ensure without hesitation that they will be respected in any new structure?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.30 and resumed at 21.00)
mr president, i declare an interest as a vice-chair of the intergroup on islands and mountainous and sparsely populated areas. i would pay tribute to colleagues across the chamber who have worked so hard to bring this subject onto the agenda because, commissioner, while i very much welcome your presence here and welcome your statement, all the action in terms of actually setting the pace on implementing article 174 and making it useful has taken place within this parliament. you have a very enthusiastic partner in making article 174 work for our citizens, because it sets us a challenge in terms of demonstrating real eu added-value for some of the most diverse and disparate communities we have within our union. i stress communities, because it is important to recognise that it is the communities that we are looking to assist. the geography – be that being an island, be that having mountains, be that being sparsely populated – is actually irrelevant. we are talking about a common problem created by different geographical specificities. that is where we need to make sure our categorisations actually fit – and they do not at present. the rules that we are operating with do not fit the specificities of the communities we are talking about and they often deliver perverse results. that is where we had a particular problem with the regional policy dg paper ‘territories with specific geographic features’. i hope you will take to heart the criticism in paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution by the group of the greens/european free alliance, because we mean it. we need a better system of classification than we have. this is not about giving more money to poor, handicapped areas. there is more than enough dynamism, excitement and enthusiasm across our islands in scotland, mountainous areas and various places to help them heal themselves. however, we need to make sure in particular that state aid represents an addition rather than a hindrance to their lives and, if we sweep the hindrances away, we can work together to make their lives better.
mr president, could i too welcome the report that is here before us today to discuss. as an islander living on the west coast of scotland, i am very well aware of the challenges that face many of our outermost areas, and indeed our island areas. the fundamental challenge that faces islands, and indeed our mountainous areas, is of course the cost of transport. it makes us uncompetitive, leads to lack of opportunity and to lack of jobs in these areas, and ultimately to the loss of our young people. paragraph six of the report refers to the need to make areas more competitive, which seems to me to be the fundamental challenge that faces regional cohesion policy in the future in addressing the concerns of islanders and those living in mountainous areas. allow me to bring up a particular issue that i wanted to take up with the commission, and to draw the commissioner’s attention to it. in scotland, we had a worthwhile initiative brought forward by the scottish government three years ago which attempted to lower ferry fares for the islands to see if it gave a boost to those particular islands. the pilot project ran for three years and has now come to a conclusion. some of the islands received the benefit of that subsidy, others did not. we expected, once the evaluation had been done, that the programme would be rolled out across all the islands in scotland. unfortunately, the scottish government has chosen to roll the programme out again only for the western isles, and the rest are not to receive any benefit. commissioner, my constituents in argyll believe this to be unfair and unjust; some of them believe it to be nothing more than an electoral bribe. if i write to you and the transport commissioner, i wonder if you would respond to their concerns and examine the unjust situation that many of my island constituents face.
mr president, i come from wales, which has mountains, islands, sparsely populated areas and much more. therefore, i welcome the proposals in the motion for a resolution. in my short contribution, i wanted to focus on the role of local government and regional government, because it is clear that, whatever strategies, projects or programmes are put in place, they will be prepared, implemented, delivered and managed by regional and local authorities. that is right, because this is the level of government which is closest to the ground and the closest to the people. therefore, it is also right that they are involved at all stages of any programme or initiative. so i would hope the commission would bear this in mind and put in place mechanisms to ensure the full involvement of local and regional government, and i am sure that they in turn will ensure the development of our communities and regions.
madam president, i would like to add my support for this oral question, as i find it totally unacceptable for the united states, canada and mexico to be seeking to challenge the inclusion of aviation in the eu emissions trading system. in any event, many people believe those aviation conditions from 2012 to be modest in comparison to what we should and could have been able to achieve. for example, this sector will still be allowed to access carbon credits from other industries, and the cap on aviation emissions is nowhere near as challenging as that demanded from other sectors. including aviation here is at least a step in the right direction, and ends the legislative vacuum it has enjoyed for too long, to the extent that it is the fastest-growing source of carbon emissions. surely the principle of the polluter pays has never been more well deserved than in this instance. in closing, i would say that we must not let established eu decisions be jeopardised by third countries. i urge the commission and the council to clearly state that they intend to fully respect the properly-adopted eu law in the upcoming icao discussions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, on behalf of my group and also as the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i want to thank the commissioner very much indeed for making it absolutely clear that the behaviour of the two trademark offices concerned – in benelux and in hungary – is absolutely unacceptable. i emphasise that very strongly, because this is clearly an attack on the fundamental principles of the internal market. i am pleased that all colleagues here have spoken in support of the decisions that the commissioner will make. i would say, from a practical point of view first of all, that it is a remarkable coincidence that both those trademark offices are operating in the country of the current presidency and the next presidency. the first thing my committee intends to do – and i will make sure it happens – is that, when the minister for the internal market (and indeed the hungarian minister, from january onwards) comes to my committee, we will make sure that we ask this question and ask them to go directly to their trademark offices and say this is not acceptable. why is it not acceptable? because it is a fundamental attack on the basic principle of the internal market that there should be no discrimination of any kind on companies, wherever they operate in a single uniform unitary market. in this case it is even worse, because this proposal – or proposed actions, if they were to be upheld – actually discriminates against small enterprises as opposed to larger enterprises. it is small enterprises that will be most affected by this because they may register a new trademark for a product across the european union – taking advantage, by the way, of a fantastic internal market revolution and a very cost-effective way of protecting their intellectual property. it may take them more than five years to get that product into the marketplace – and what would they find? when they come to the hungarian market, they would find that the hungarian trade mark office has given their trade mark away to someone else. this is absolutely not acceptable. i cannot understand why it is that, after all the time that we have had the office for harmonisation in the internal market (the trademark office) in operation, we suddenly find these two trademark offices doing this. perhaps it is because the cost of registering a european trade mark has come down, because they are operating it so efficiently. of course, these two trademark offices, in trying to sustain these objections to allowing people to register trademarks, will be requiring the companies concerned to register in their own jurisdictions. this is naked self-interest on behalf of these organisations. it cannot be allowed to stand. it is fundamentally against the principles of the european union and, by the way, it also undermines – as the commissioner rightly says – a major priority for this commission, which is innovation, getting new products into the market and making the internal market work better.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i want to make a couple of quick points before i go to my main specific point. firstly, i should like to congratulate the council on its concentration on improving economic governance in europe. secondly, on the roma, i want to make it clear that we have been pressing very hard to get a very clear legal statement from the guardians of the treaty, the commission. until we do, i must say that attacks on the french from some political quarters, just for the sake of it, are not very edifying or very helpful to european unity. however, this morning i want to talk about the declaration on pakistan, a commonwealth partner of three of the european union’s member states and a strategic ally of the union. we welcome the progress that has now been made to provide emergency aid for pakistan and we are pleased that the council agreed that a comprehensive package of measures for pakistan’s recovery and future development is required. development aid for pakistan, as elsewhere, is vital, and the new uk coalition government is proud of its commitment to spend 0.7% of gni on overseas aid by 2013. and yes, mr schulz, the coalition government in the uk comprises conservatives and liberals – just to make the record complete. but aid is only one side of the coin. the long-term future of the developing world rests on the ability of each nation to create a robust, dynamic trading economy. i believe the intention to grant to pakistan increased market access through the immediate reduction of duties on key imports to the eu is an important step, even though i regret that the policy will need to be time-limited rather than becoming the rule. nonetheless, the call to establish a major new trade partnership between europe and pakistan was a bold proposal by the uk prime minister david cameron, which has been pursued with determination by the coalition’s trade minister, ed davey. i fear though that the need to take into account industrial sensitivities, referred to in the declaration, will turn a dramatic initiative into something of a timid half measure. given the plight of the people of pakistan, such a betrayal would be a disgrace. we in my group will therefore be watching closely to ensure that the ambition of the declaration is not thwarted by any selfish protectionism.
mr president, this is a crucial time, at which the european union needs to show its leadership globally, particularly on climate change and fighting poverty, but also in terms of governance, internally. this issue goes wider than to just the member states. we must improve multilevel governance to address the governance deficit in the lisbon treaty, and that means an integrated eu-wide approach that recognises the importance of all the regions and substate governments. it also means clearly restating the aim of reducing regional disparities. i have been looking forward to welcoming president barroso to my constituency in wales next week. three quarters of wales receives structural funding to combat some of the highest levels of poverty in europe. i look forward to showing him what a difference the funding has made to our economy and our communities. to continue this progress in this and many other regions, regional funding must not be nationalised to the member states, and i urge the council and commission not to jeopardise this european union assistance for long-term sustainable development.
mr president, on economic governance, my group supports efforts to achieve stronger european economic coordination, but we have serious doubts about the direction being followed by the commission and council. in essence, they want to strengthen an imbalanced policy approach which has failed us now for over a decade. this mistaken view is based on the assumption that balanced budgets combined with more flexible labour markets will per se bring about properly shared growth and prosperity. sound public finances are very important, but at any point in time we must get the balance right between potentially conflicting policy objectives. this is being ignored. what is proposed for the 24 million unemployed across europe? the answer is fiscal consolidation and a gradual reduction in social protection. that is not good enough. we need economic governance that can achieve a balanced policy mix, with sound public finances and high-quality full employment. the two objectives must go hand in hand. the reform of the current system will be a missed opportunity if the policy focus remains solely on balancing budgets and reducing public debt. that strategy is wrong, from both an economic and social standpoint. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, it is very difficult to distil complex arguments down to one minute, but i did devote one sentence to saying sound public finances are very important. we agree absolutely with that, but it is the timing and method of approach that you adopt which is also crucial. if you do it far too quickly, as is being proposed – that we get back to the 3% deficit criteria by the end of 2013 – that could well cut off any possibility of growth and lead to long-term stagnation and high levels of continuing long-term unemployment. that is the wrong approach. we need a two-legged approach, not a one-legged approach which focuses only on deficit reduction.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and mr reynders. i would also like to thank david wright very much for his activity, as well as my colleagues around the room. we have been quite successful. however, you are either captured by the moment or you capture it. a financial crisis has given life to new agencies, which are much needed and very welcome at this time across the european union and perhaps even across the globe, but the power invested in these institutions also has to be a responsible power. ambition, therefore, must have a purpose, in order for there to be any fulfilment, and that purpose must be shared by our citizens whose jobs and livelihoods depend upon us getting it right. there is no doubt that the discussion between member states and parliament has often led to tensions during this debate, but none of us have completely got our way and all of us have been successful in delivering what will, i believe, be a success. parliament has pushed for greater powers at european level. of course this has been against the background of being against the wishes of member states. some in this house will want to go further in creating direct supervision, particularly in the area of central counterparties, for example. we all have to caution against adventure over ambition, but let us have proper measured responses when we get to fill in the blanks which will come later. financial stability at this time depends upon the years – and sometimes decades – of experience of thousands of nationally-based people who have experience of financial services. they have been the first front line in preventing problems. the national governments have proved that they can also bail us out when it comes to meltdown. however, this has been about fortune rather than design. these new institutions give us the chance to have design. that is what has been missing and that is why it is so important to have it fulfilled. the agencies do have practical issues involved. we will have a joint committee, which i have been very proud to help champion. the joint committee should be a vehicle for coordination, exchange of information and joint decision-taking. it will be the platform for focusing; these agencies work on eliminating systemic risks. we have also insisted on giving the head of the ecb control over monitoring risk at the aggregate level, but if we have to ask mr bernanke whether his reputation was enhanced, i think he might say ‘no’ about having such powers. so, avoiding the casino-style financial operations of the past – yes – but being responsible ourselves as regulators, we have to be very measured as well. there should be regulatory ambition, but this is also about people’s pensions, their savings, their houses and their jobs. i welcome the supervisory infrastructure that we have. it is young but it will have to grow up very quickly indeed.
madam president, i should like to ask mr skinner on what basis he assumes that the judgement and decisions of new european institutions are going to be better than the decisions taken by regulatory institutions at the national level?
madam president, if the earl of dartmouth had listened to my speech, then he would have heard me say that i consider this has to be done in coordination with national authorities, not against their interests – and only done when the legislation that we put forward for such purpose is fit and has passed through the democratic procedures of this house. i believe that this actually provides the best of both worlds. if you are to imagine that, sitting on your island, a moat alone will protect you from the real issues of the real world, then you are a fool, i am afraid, because the realities are that the global crisis has taught us a real lesson.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we have made it. the supervisory architecture train has left the station and we are expecting great things from the common rule book. however, our financial legislation is still like a swiss cheese with holes and carve-outs – places a single rule book will never reach. that is a shame that we will all share until we all really truly subscribe to a single market in financial services. the new authorities give us an extra dimension to achieve cross-border coordination, but that means extra care has to be taken to make sure that decisions are responsive and taken close to the markets. the esas will need to be joined up with one another and with national supervisors and, they will indeed have to have fingers in all the pies to make appropriate decisions, mindful that a bad decision is not made better by making it widespread.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the legacy of this financial crisis has been a cloud of uncertainty hanging over the financial services sector and our public finances. the banks, the financial markets, governments and corporations are feeling this uncertainty daily, and in order for our economies to show signs of recovery we need to ensure that this uncertainty is dispelled. one of the main uncertainties since the spectacular failures in the financial sector has been uncertainty regarding regulation, including who will do the future regulating and which institutions will enforce them. this house has been instrumental in debating this issue, and has over the past few months discussed the minutiae of regulation and supervision in terms of who, what, where and when. the result delivers balance: balance between member states’ responsibility for supervising institutions and a new european authority setting a common rule book, thereby progressing the single market in financial services whilst elevating the role of peer oversight; balance between safety in the system as monitored by the new esrb and the need for financial companies to take risks; balance between ultimate protection of the taxpayer and provision of capital to fuel the economy. we all have a strong interest in establishing new mechanisms to underpin the single market in financial services, including: the monitoring of global risk at our european banks; ensuring a coordinated and ordered procedure across all member states in a crisis; ensuring stronger arrangements for mediation between supervisors; and ensuring the enforcement of the rules in all financial centres and by all financial players. this supervisory package as it now stands delivers the balance required. however, the recruitment of high calibre, financially competent staff will be critical to its future success. i call upon the commission to ensure that this next step works.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, when last i met the commissioner, i expressed grave concern that regulation of the city of london was going to move to brussels. he seemed surprised that i was so concerned, but since he has taken office he might have come to understand that a significant portion of the united kingdom’s gdp actually comes from its financial services sector. it is very important to the united kingdom. indeed, it picks up most of the tabs. the gbp 45 million a day we send to this place to support the rather suspicious european union project, which has not given any of our electorate an actual say, one of those tabs. in fact, you must understand that big salaries and big pensions do not grow on trees. commissioner, i also mentioned to you that we could learn something from the old dominions – australia, canada – who have not suffered from this problem, and you rather charmingly, and in a very gallic way, suggested that australia was a long way away. i hope, now that you have been in office for a little while, you will understand that perhaps such a parochial approach will not do. i still worry, commissioner, i still fret that we will have regulation from the usual mishmash of ignorant bureaucrats, parliamentary committees with their usual complement of cryptocommunists, anachronistic socialists, journeymen politicians, fringe greenies, a sprinkling of well-meaning housewives, and grandmothers exploring their new third age. the outcome will be the same as all the other eu projects: fishing, agriculture, energy, employment, immigration and, horror of horrors, the ticking time bomb of the single currency. it is an astonishing litany, is it not, of failure? you would think the european union would get something right once by accident. i am sorry, but i am not satisfied. i am desperately cross that the british conservative party has given away the city of london regulation. if dave cameron had been the admiral at trafalgar, it would be admiral villeneuve on the plinth in trafalgar square now.
madam president, ordinary people see crises as disasters; the european union sees crises as opportunities for gathering power to itself, always at the expense of the power of national governments. member states will lose their sovereignty over their own financial systems. whilst it is true that the crisis in the united kingdom was handled in a woefully defective way, that is because successive uk governments have not imposed sufficient control over the activities of their private banks. banks are not ordinary businesses that are best left to themselves. they are the creators of credit, a large part of the money supply – and that cannot be left in the hands of unregulated private business.
in writing. – brussels are now totally in control of banks, stock markets and insurance companies, yet what was supposed to be supervisory has escalated into powers that stretch much further than the advisory nature of current systems, leaving national bodies without power or purpose. if brussels were viewed as over regulating banks and stock markets financial services would face two options – fall behind international competitors or move their headquarters to countries free from any limitation whatsoever. the former would keep european investors stuck in the dark ages of recession as the rest of the world takes huge strides out. the latter could lead to a cowboy banking market overseas beyond reach where everybody’s money would be at risk. the majority of eu regulation in other sectors has been unmitigated disaster. we have put the city of london, one of the uk’s largest industries, responsible for 80 per cent of european hedge funds, into the hands of the commission. if this follows the rest of brussels’ erroneous lawmaking, the uk, and the rest of the world, could rue the day such a power transfer was allowed to take place.
mr president, we are all familiar with the famous bicycle metaphor – the idea that the european union has to keep moving forward or else it will topple over. i have always thought that a ravening shark would make for a better simile – it has to keep swimming lest it choke – but we will leave that aside. let us examine the question of why that is the case. the truth is that the european union has become a mechanism for the redistribution of money. it has to keep sucking in more and more funds in order to reward its favoured client groups. if it stops doing that then the bicycle indeed topples and the shark drowns. that is why we have this extraordinary spectacle, at a time when every national government is looking to constrain spending, that the one budget that keeps rising is that of the european union. in my country, every departmental budget is looking for savings of between 25 and 40 percent, but one budget is increasing by 60 percent, namely our net contributions to the european union. far from stimulating the economy, we are taking money out of the productive sector and taking people out of the productive sector and putting them in the bureaucracy. this will simply confirm people in the view that the european union has become a racket.
mr president, the distant rumble we can hear is the eu’s barrage, its opening assault on the prosperity of the city of london, whose prosperity sustains the surrounding economy of my constituency. the new supervisory architecture, which this house has just voted through with an enormous margin, is not a proportionate remedy to an identified problem. no one has convincingly demonstrated – no one has even seriously tried to argue – that the measures we are putting in place would have prevented the financial crisis two years ago. what we are seeing rather is measures driven by envy, by resentment of london’s position and by hostility to capitalism as a model. you can blame an awful lot of people for the credit crunch – you can blame the banks, you can blame the regulators, you can blame the governments for keeping interest rates too low for too long – but you cannot blame managers of private equity who were rather among the victims and who took their losses on the chin and who did not come bleating for bail-outs. the people in those industries are not going to sit around waiting for commissioner barnier to send in his inspectors. already they are emigrating to switzerland, to shanghai, to singapore – leaving london, and the eu as a whole, the poorer.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament for london, many of my constituents – as you can expect – are very concerned about the impact of this not only on europe’s largest financial centre, but on its two largest financial centres: london is home to the city and to the canary wharf group. when we look at the financial crisis, it is very easy to fall into a trap – the trap that this parliament and all the institutions are falling into – that more regulation is the solution. we forget the role that regulation actually played in creating the sub-prime crisis in the first place, telling banks to lend to uncreditworthy customers. when one in ten of those customers defaulted, we had the sub-prime crisis. we also need to understand the difference between regulation and supervision. it could be argued that regulators had the tools at their disposal but did not use them properly. one of the advantages we hear is that this will create a single rule book for europe. that is very interesting, but the problem we have got, as we know, is that many eu countries often ignore the rules and do not pay their fines. how can you create a level playing field when many of the players will not obey the rules?
mr president, like many members of the parliament across the political spectrum, i too had my reservations about this report, particularly when it was looking to confuse the issues of file-sharing with the health risks associated with counterfeit goods, say in aircraft or counterfeit medicines. the two are not comparable and should be clearly separated. we also need to come to terms with the difference between products and services in the world of atoms and products and services in the world of bits – the digital economy. we need to understand that, in a world of increased processing power, in a world of cheaper data storage, in a world of increased broadband, what we are seeing is, on the whole, that many digital products tend towards zero. unfortunately, what is happening is that, while many artists are responding and finding other ways to make money while giving away some of their content, the music industry as a whole has not caught up and still seems to want people to go back years to the days of the physical media. it is time for the music industry to wake up and adjust their business models to the digital economy.
in writing. − in voting for this measure, there is no endorsement of the system of vat. what is clear is that the timetable set for the introduction of an electronic refund procedure and a single refund request was in practice unrealistic – and many taxpayers and small businesses might lose as a consequence. this essential measure recognises this and, in doing so, recognises the central role of member states – arguably hands power back to them if only for six months. it also stops an unrealistic timetable causing the uk’s and other member states’ smes from financially suffering due to eu incompetence. for these reasons, we are voting for it.
in writing. − in voting for this measure, there is no endorsement of the system of vat. what is clear is that the timetable set for the introduction of an electronic refund procedure and a single refund request was in practice unrealistic – and many taxpayers and small businesses might lose as a consequence. this essential measure recognises this and, in doing so, recognises the central role of member states – arguably hands power back to them if only for six months. it also stops an unrealistic timetable causing the uk’s and other member states’ smes from financially suffering due to eu incompetence. for these reasons, we are voting for it.
in writing. − this report, and the corresponding reports voted as part of the financial supervision package, herald a new era in financial regulation, where banks will no longer be able to take advantage of grey areas in regulatory regimes, and the eu will be able to provide better protection from risky financial products and activities. these reports should be especially welcomed by consumers, as the creation of the new european supervisory authorities means the eu will now be able to regulate the cross-border activities of financial institutions and ensure that the interests of consumers are at the forefront of decisions made by banks.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the democratic republic of congo (drc) is neither particularly democratic as we understand the term here in the european union, nor is it an effectively functioning republic; this is partly due to its vast size, porous borders and poor infrastructure, which makes democratic governance a major challenge. but the drc’s fragility as a nation state is also due to decades of corruption, political repression and sporadic armed conflict, both internally and with neighbouring states, where atrocious crimes such as mass rape have been carried out. the deterioration began under the kleptocratic and murderous regime of president mobutu and has continued to the present day. president kabila has at least held a general election to give the impression to the outside world of instituting democratic reform, but in reality he controls all the levers of power, and in particular access to the country’s vast natural resources. the increasing interest of some countries, particularly china, in exploiting these resources has emboldened the kabila regime to neglect its responsibilities regarding human rights and the rule of law. china itself has a lamentable human rights record, and at the un actually defends the actions of countries like the drc with which it does business. it is therefore no surprise to me that, of the three trials under way at the international criminal court, all involve nationals of the drc. despite this alarming situation, the african union refuses to condemn or pressurise kabila to live up to his constitutional obligations. the eu, to its credit, has no such qualms, and i welcome the tough approach taken by the high representative, baroness ashton. finally, i want to reiterate the call i have made several times already in this house for the kimberley process to be extended to cover other key natural resources in africa. human rights abuses in africa, which are all too common regrettably, are often linked to competition for the control of mineral resources. the kimberley process has been hugely successful in curtailing the trade in conflict or blood diamonds, and i believe a similar approach should now be considered for other extractive industries.
mr president, this debate implies that human rights abuses in the congo are a recent phenomenon, or that this is an unusual state of affairs in africa. neither is the case: if only it were. i remember the independence of the belgian congo in 1960, when i was still at school. i recall the kidnapping and arrest of patrice lumumba within months of independence. i still remember vividly the coverage of him being thrown roughly into the back of a lorry, never to be seen again. decades of fratricidal instability, dictatorship and civil war have followed. the congo has not been a special case in africa. a peaceful democracy would be more difficult to find. if i were to follow the prescriptive, ‘nurture’ explanation, i would have to say there must be something in the water. however, there is another explanation. in africa in general, if not particularly in the congo, when the colonists drew straight lines on the maps of africa they ignored the differences between different tribes and peoples. each country, on independence, contained enormous vertical ethnic, linguistic or religious divisions in the body politic, which always inject political instability. this is as true of belgium as it is of the former belgian congo. the only difference is that belgium has escaped the political violence. unfortunately, the same cannot be said of bosnia and croatia where there have been as many killings, if not the same gratuitous sadism. if vertical divisions in political states lead to instability, and sometimes to violence, why are we creating the same vertical divisions in europe by uncontrolled immigration from the third world in general, and africa in particular? we were not content to leave africa with unworkable political societies. we are busy recreating the same problems in the european heartlands.
mr president, earlier this year denis mukwege, a gynaecologist from panzi in the drc, came to our european parliament and told us that the at least 200 000 rapes which have taken place in his country over the last fifteen years are too brutal to be described as such, and should instead be called sexual massacre, and that sex is being used as a terrorist act. little did we know that but a few weeks later, within twenty miles of an international peace keeping force in the area of luvungi, the town would be put under siege and some 500 women and children subjected to repeated and horrific sexual violence. in this parliament, where we have decried the failure to offer protection in rwanda and srebrenica, we cannot and must not stay silent. we should commend the un assistant secretary-general for accepting that the un had failed and is partially responsible. but we should also challenge the un to investigate why local warnings in advance, delivered by motorcycle taxi drivers, went unheeded; why the un base did not have access to local language interpretation; and how the rules of engagement continue to hinder the effectiveness of its peace-keeping force. frankly, i would ask all member states of the united nations and every member state of our european union what has happened to the fine words we all voted on concerning the un’s responsibility to protect. i commend what mr chastel has said this afternoon about bringing the perpetrators to justice, but in the report imminently to be produced by the un itself we need a meaningful justice system for a decade of crimes in eastern drc. president, i also express agreement with the others in this debate who have condemned the corrosive corruption which afflicts the plundering of the drc’s rich mineral resources. but most of all in this debate we should say that there are no explanations, no excuses, no extenuating circumstances which can in any way justify sexual violence as a weapon of war, and that our foremost concern should be for those 500 women victims who all of us failed to protect. our commitment should be to ensure it never happens again.
mr president, today’s debate is focused on the terrible events which have occurred in the east of the drc, but member states continue to maintain that it is safe to return congolese asylum seekers to kinshasa because the capital is far removed from the insecure areas to the east. unfortunately, the facts suggest otherwise. for example, of the nine people removed from teeside in north-east england since 2007 and taken to kinshasa, seven report that they have been interrogated, imprisoned, sexually abused or tortured. they have either fled the country again or are in hiding. since the 2006 elections, the eu has invested heavily in supporting good governance in the drc. it is inconvenient to have to acknowledge that violence is still occurring in kinshasa, but i ask the council and the commission to face up to this reality and to respond to it.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, what is the commissioner thinking about? has the commission been asleep for the last two years? here we are, at a time of economic stringency, despite what mr van rompuy said this week. there are millions out of work, some newer member states have still not got the promised financial package, and germany has a billion-euro bill round its neck to underwrite the greek economy. in britain, my government is raising taxes, freezing public sector pay and pensions and cutting back on welfare while finding gbp 45 million every day for this place. and now you want to spend eur 1.1 billion of hard pressed european taxpayers’ money on a programme to help partner countries along the eu borders. is that what you mean by more europe – or is it an attempt to draw these countries into the eu? it sounds like empire-building to me. after all, josé barroso himself called this an empire. we are told that the eu is to prevent further wars in europe, but if you look at the record you will find that such wars were due to the empire-builders. now you are doing it all over again. do you never learn?
mr president, as the former rapporteur for the enp in the last parliament, i would say to commissioner füle that i remain sceptical as to whether one can really combine morocco and moldova under one policy umbrella. to an extent, the eastern partnership developments and the euromed/barcelona process reflect my concerns. of course, i still hope that one day ukraine, moldova and a democratic belarus might join the european union. nevertheless, i do agree that more cross-border enpi funding needs to made affordable to solve questions such as the frozen conflicts from transnistria to nagorno-karabakh, which is a region that particularly concerns me and which has never had any funding from the commission. there is a real risk at the moment of an escalation of tensions, or even of hostilities breaking out again between armenia and azerbaijan over nagorno-karabakh, particularly as azerbaijan is now flush with petrodollars. in the southern dimension, solving the western sahara question and fighting religious fundamentalism, particularly in secular countries like egypt and tunisia, could also be an area where cross-border cooperation could become a priority. sadly, for most of the countries of the european neighbourhood policy, it is all about bilateral eu relations with brussels, with little or no interest really in regional integration amongst themselves or in cross-border cooperation.
mr president, if you really want to know what somebody is up to, you must listen to him telling you what he is not intending to do. the european union’s description of its neighbourhood policy sounds like an old man of questionable character armed with a bag of sweets explaining how innocent his motives are. the european neighbourhood policy is not about membership of the european union, it says. however, we do have some sweets in the form of action plans on economic and social cooperation and development, which contribute to sustainable growth in partner countries. it must be emphasised that the european union’s motives are beyond reproach, as innocent as those of the old man of questionable character. it does not want to take possession of neighbouring states for improper purposes; it just wants to talk about shared values. there is a name for this in english law: it is called ‘grooming’. i have some advice for neighbouring countries: do not talk to strangers bearing sweets. keep the virtue of your sovereignty and avoid being suborned into betraying your country, even by people with the purest of motives.
mr president, china is an economic capitalist wonder but it is essentially a brutal one-party communist state. one of the more unpleasant facts is the forced ‘re-education’ through labour camps, or laogais, to which millions of dissenters or political opponents – from uighurs to falun gong practitioners and, in the past of course, tiananmen square protesters and their relatives – are sent. in these camps there are horrendous, albeit unproven, allegations of organ harvesting, for transplant purposes, among prisoners about to be executed. it is a fact, of course, that china does execute thousands of its citizens yearly for various reasons: from major capital crimes – something we might find understandable – to economic sabotage and even pimping. there is another issue which i raised in the past with commissioner mandelson, which is the worry that forced labour camps may be producing goods. this is an allegation. one particular thing cited was rubber boots, which somehow find their way onto the eu markets. i have some sympathy with the commission because identifying this, or proving it, has so far been impossible.
mr president, the prospect of being jailed for thought crimes is shocking. unlike most of the people here, i can tell you that from personal experience. the british government has tried to jail me three times under anti-free-speech laws that state that telling the truth is no defence. so i am very sympathetic to chinese, and especially tibetan, dissidents forced into slave labour in communist prison camps. steps must be taken to prevent the goods they make being allowed to undercut manufacturing and workers in the west. but, if one accepts that items made by forced labour constitute unfair competition, it is impossible to avoid the same conclusion about goods made by sweated labour, by workers who are not allowed to organise into trade unions in a country where there are no environmental protection costs. the truth is that all manufactured goods from china constitute unfair competition. trade with china, far from being free, costs millions of jobs and destroys our manufacturing base. it is time to protect our workers from this unholy alliance of communist tyranny and capitalist greed.
mr president, whether or not it should be permissible to sell goods which prisoners have been compelled to make must depend on whether the prisoners have committed real offences, as distinct from political ones – of course in china we know exactly what the offences are – on whether the judicial system is fair and, certainly, on whether prisoners are being kept in humane conditions, which they are certainly not in the laogai. however, whether or not other people should be permitted to buy them must depend on whether or not the importing country wishes to close down its own factories and put its own workers out of employment. that should apply not only to goods made by prisoners but to goods from any low-wage economy with which our workers cannot expect to compete. advocates of free trade in the classical economics books always say that free trade makes the world as a whole much richer. however, that does not mean that each country becomes richer. it certainly does not mean that british and other european workers who are thrown out of work will become richer. their interests must come first.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, whilst i rise under the umbrella of the ecr group, my comments are entirely based upon my personal convictions. i welcome the debate that is taking place in this house today, as it is quite clearly a display of our commitment to a fundamental value of our union. last year, at least 714 people were executed by states. this excludes china, as it will not provide transparency on the issue. many of the states that still have the death penalty as a punishment tool do not have the mechanism to deliver fair trials to those that they accuse of capital punishment crimes. the distinction between those countries that have capital punishment and use it and those that retain the power but do not actually carry out the death penalty is not as dramatic as one would first assume. the figure i stated earlier does not include all those who sit waiting to see what their fate may be, many of whom are actually innocent and have been denied the possibility of a fair trial. so, whilst we have this debate, it is a very personal one. it is not just about those who are facing conviction and the death penalty but, along with them, all the many others that are affected, their families and so many other people in society, simply because those people face execution without any opportunity of a fair trial. we should concentrate on addressing those cases as well.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the gulf of mexico oil spill was a wake-up call for the oil sector. there is no question about that. we are all keenly aware of that fact, but let us be careful we do not overreact. i agree when we say that we must have proper compensation for all those, particularly in the fisheries sector, who lose their livelihood because of an oil spill or any accident of this nature which – heaven help us – i hope does not happen in any of our waters. we must set up either a compensation fund or an insurance fund to which the oil companies themselves would contribute. however, when i hear good colleagues like mrs lepage calling for a moratorium on exploratory drilling, i really feel that is going too far. that is an overreaction. we have 20 years, two decades, of experience in deepwater drilling in the north sea and off the west coast of scotland – two decades in which we have exported some of the highest-level safety technology in the world. we have got more than 315 deepwater wells, i.e. wells over 300 metres deep, while some of them have been up to 1600 metres deep. it is early days to look at the analysis of what happened in the gulf of mexico but from the evidence it already seems that if our technology, which we have been using for two decades in the north sea, had been used there, we would not have had the oil spill, or it would have been contained much more rapidly. so do not let us suddenly slam the door on one of the safest and most secure industries that we have in europe, when this year alone we have already invested gbp 6 billion in exploratory work in the north sea and off the coast of shetland. do not overreact and send the message worldwide that we in the european parliament feel that our european industry is no longer safe. this is one of our great export earners.
madam president, the real significance of the deepwater disaster is being missed. the real question is why bp is drilling for oil through 5 000 metres of rock, in water 1 500 metres deep, in the middle of a hurricane zone. the answer is peak oil – the point at which we have used the half of the world’s reserves that were easy, safe and cheap to produce, and now rely on shrinking reserves which are increasingly inaccessible, dangerous and expensive, both financially and environmentally. deepwater is merely a symptom of peak oil. using it as an excuse for yet another eu power grab will not stop us reaching peak or suffering its potentially catastrophic consequences. instead of talking about symptoms, it is time to get serious about the disease: the fact that we have used all the easy oil and are still addicted to the stuff. in recent months this reality has begun to dawn on – among others – president obama, the british government and the german military. it is time for the eu to take its head out of the sand, stop obsessing about climate change, and study and address the real crisis: peak oil.
madam president, as many other speakers have said, the gulf of mexico disaster was a wake-up call for the industry. however, i listened carefully to what the commissioner said in his introduction and his comments and i agree with the commitments he gave that we need to improve standards, we need to improve quality, and we need to ensure that the eu can be a leader in this field and that we can export our safety systems around the world and make sure that others follow. i also welcome his recognition in his contribution that, in the north sea, the uk and norway are already operating to some of the highest standards in the world. we in scotland have had our disaster in the north sea – in the piper alpha disaster, just over 20 years ago, when over 100 people were killed. that led to a wide-scale review of safety standards which has resulted in the very high standards that we now have today. i support much of what is in the question that jo leinen has led on today, but i do not believe that the open-ended call for a moratorium is proportionate and is a sensible response to the challenge we face. i hope parliament will think twice about going as far as that.
madam president, disasters like this should make us think. they make me think about the arctic, an area where the eu has no direct jurisdiction but much influence. commissioner, you rightly said that eu companies operating outside the eu should export eu standards. i hope that will happen in respect to the arctic area. it is far more challenging and hostile than the north sea and to me it is a conundrum. we, as europe, champion a move from an oil-based economy and we champion renewables. yet indirectly we are encouraging oil exploitation in the most vulnerable and fragile part of our globe, where the consequences could be horrific. maybe we should think quite carefully about what happens in the arctic.
madam president, the resolution is looking at one problem, that of the risks of deep-water drilling, in isolation from the related problem that we are running short of easily accessible oil. we might already have passed the point at which we have used over half the world’s supply. those who would stop or inhibit deep-water drilling must explain how they would find an energy-dense substitute for oil. or would they be happy for future generations to be returned to a non-industrial society? there is no comparison between the risks of drilling in the shallow waters of the european continental shelf and the waters in the gulf of mexico. the proposers of this resolution are quite right to be horrified by the environmental and other costs of the bp tragedy in the gulf. however, they must also be aware of the costs of a moratorium on deep-water drilling.
in writing. – mr president, the gulf of mexico oil disaster serves as a reminder of the inherent risks involved in maritime oil exploration. the investigations into what went wrong in american waters must be full and rigorous and the eu should pay careful attention to any lessons needing to be learned. nevertheless, the calls for a moratorium on all deep-sea drilling in eu waters are premature and wholly disproportionate. the regulations in place in scottish waters are not those which were in place in the gulf of mexico and we have decades of experience in this industry. scottish oil exploration has not been without incident and the piper alpha catastrophe showed that some prices are too high in the pursuit of oil. however, lessons were learned from piper alpha and regulations were tightened up. if further lessons emerge from the gulf, appropriate amendments can be made. these amendments should however be the responsibility of the democratic institutions of scotland - and knee jerk reactions from this parliament are unlikely to solve any problems.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i was also at the un with mr mitchell and represented the parliament on the issue of the mdgs. i want to congratulate the commission on what they are doing, but i want to inform the house that we in the eu lead internationally on these issues – on biodiversity, on climate change and, indeed, on the mdgs’ poverty alleviation – but, interestingly, at the un we are only given observer status. that must change, as we lead the world on these issues. we have the year of biodiversity, but i would suggest that every year should be the year of biodiversity. our citizens – maybe in the visitors’ gallery, maybe watching at home – will ask what this has got to do with them. without public awareness and the raising of awareness, nothing will change. they must realise that the tin of tomatoes that they pick up in the supermarket would not be there if it were not for biodiversity. we need a 360 degree awareness of what this means. as mr mitchell brilliantly put it, this wall of poverty – and, may i add, deprivation – must come down. we talk of policy coherence in this house, but let me just refer to some of these issues: without policy coherence on access to energy in the developing world, deforestation, climate change, food security, the reform of the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy, land grab, natural resources and access to water, we will never protect biodiversity and we will never end the suffering of the world’s poor.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, biodiversity is not some abstract word that is used by abstruse scientists to look after some environmental peculiarity. biodiversity is the very core of our survival on this planet as a human race. take, for example, a recent calculation done by dr pavan sukhdev about the loss of biodiversity and the value of that loss. his findings show that deforestation alone – the loss of the earth’s lung, which changes carbon dioxide to oxygen and which enables us to breathe – is costing usd 4.5 trillion every year. every year we are losing in replacement costs 4.5 trillion us dollars’ worth of oxygen manufacturing process. that is about the size of the new york stock exchange. if every year we lost an asset with the value of the new york stock exchange, i am sure everybody in this room would be up and running around, but because it is biodiversity nobody seems to care. that is an enormous amount of funding that would be required to replace the loss of oxygen that we cut down by cutting these trees. take the collapse of the newfoundland cod fisheries in the 1990s. it has cost cad 2 billion in replacement costs. if we lose – as we are doing – some of the pharmaceutical genetic material which comes from biodiversity, we will be losing about 640 billion dollars’ worth of raw materials. this is a very serious issue and we need serious people making serious decisions.
madam president, the challenge we face in reversing the loss of unique species of life becomes depressingly apparent as this debate continues. a lot is going to be said at the biodiversity conference about the need to put in place the correct measures but if all we end up with is a pious declaration we will achieve very little. i hope we can put in place a set of targets and the financial support mechanisms – no doubt linked to access to biological resources – to make them worth something. i hope we can ensure that procedures are put in place to assess and confirm compliance, and i hope that we can put in place arrangements for frequent review of the targets and for improvements to be made to the procedures as time progresses. it is quite clear that this conference cannot possibly halt the loss of biodiversity; the pace is simply too rapid. however, if we can at least put in place the mechanisms and the structure that can eventually slow and perhaps one day reverse that loss, then it will be judged a success.
madam president, ‘biodiversity’ is a word i often hear bandied about by eurocrats, meps and lobbyists out here in brussels. but i wonder if anybody in here can actually define what it really means, because i bet my bottom dollar that none of you can. oddly enough, i think it does matter that you understand what you are talking about if you are making laws for the whole of the eu. but what does the conveniently vague and ambiguous term ‘biodiversity’ actually mean? because the truth of the matter is that there is no correct number of species, whether it is on a cumbrian farm or a liverpool suburb or even in a cheshire forest, and i defy the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to come up with a proper definition or stop using such ragbag words. and, may i ask, where is the boundary of the biodiverse area? is it ever applied to offshore marine environments? and if so, why are you so keen to build monstrous wind farms that are detrimental to wildlife and do not even work! let us be frank, you have not got a clue. there is no clear thinking, no coherent policy and no logic to what you are proposing. if you are going to preach, which is what you are doing, look in the mirror first, sort your own house out and let us start with the disaster which is the common fisheries policy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i wonder if the honourable member would agree that we are losing unique forms of life on this planet each and every day and that there is a need for international action to try and counter that? i did not hear anything in his remarks that suggested that he did agree with that but i invite him to explain his position to the house.
madam president, let us put a few facts in order. if you want examples of species which are disappearing, there are a lot of dodgy statistics out there – take polar bears as an example. people constantly say that the polar bear population has fallen. yet the polar bear population is actually bigger now than it was in the 1940s. i agree that species are disappearing, but i do not believe that the european union – which is fundamentally undemocratic, the british people have never had a say on it – is the forum to decide this matter. it should be done in nation states.
mr president, unlike some of the other speakers, i do not believe that the lisbon treaty changes as much in the social policy field as in some other areas. we have had codecision in the employment field for many years now but, under the title ii provisions having general application, in article 9 there is a reference to, among other things, the protection of human health. one directive that affects that is the electromagnetic fields directive and i know the commission has been looking at this. when we take the electromagnetic fields directive through the whole procedure with the committee on employment and social affairs, we must ensure, and i hope member states agree, that state-of-the-art mri scanners can be used. article 10 under title ii covers anti-discrimination. as several other speakers have said, it is most important that we make sure that the horizontal directive on access to goods and services is unblocked from the council and make sure that those member states that are blocking it lift their objections so we can have a true anti-discrimination directive on access to goods and services.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, i would like to join with commissioner malmström in sincerely thanking tanja fajon for her committed and patient hard work. i have been a modest member of her team, under her leadership over the last eighteen months, in what i know she has and i have regarded as an extremely important exercise. it is reported – and i am quoting from an english translation of the report – that the french european affairs minister, pierre lellouche, has called visa policy a matter of security. he apparently said in the assemblée nationale the other day that ‘my position and that of the government is that the visa issue is a matter of security. it is not only a diplomatic present which we offer along the way’. as i say, i am quoting from an english translation. yes, we agree, but i will come back to the issue of security shortly. of course – and tanja fajon dealt with that – it is not a diplomatic present. but he went on apparently to say that france would request security guarantees from the two countries. but that is exactly what the commission has done, under the usual, carefully prepared roadmap which has had the full support of the council of ministers as well as of parliament. so all the points that commissioner malmström made were absolutely pertinent and she is also right to add that it must be made plain, and will, i am sure, be made plain to their citizens by the national authorities of those two countries, that it is a right that must not be abused; that it is a right for short-term travel, for tourism, for exchanges, for business and so on, and it is not for other purposes, including work. but just to come back to that point about security in the broadest sense. the european union is about security in the broadest sense and this is part of the whole exercise of opening up minds, of fighting nationalism, of fighting ethnic conflict, of building a continent on peace and prosperity, and that is what we want to open up the eyes of the citizens of those countries to. we are all in this together and we hope to prepare them to become members of the european union because the european union is a security project. we made this deal. we said, if you jump through these hoops, you will get visa-free travel. if france or any other member state had doubts about this journey, they should never have given support to the visa liberalisation roadmap. they must not now fail this promise.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, visa liberalisation is an important step for any country seeking a closer relationship with the european union. making it easier for bona fide citizens of third countries to visit the eu, for business and tourism, is an important part of integrating these countries with our own union. the positive experience of extending visa liberalisation to montenegro – for which i had the privilege of being the rapporteur of this parliament – to serbia and to macedonia, has given extra momentum to these countries’ aspirations for eu membership. however, we must eventually give all countries in the western balkans an equal opportunity to achieve this status if they qualify for it. after all, this is nothing more than what they used to enjoy in the days of the former yugoslavia. extending visa liberalisation now to albania and bosnia-herzegovina is therefore a natural progression of a long-standing strategic policy which i welcome on behalf of my group. but we should be insistent on all of these countries reaching and maintaining high standards of passport biometric security. visa liberalisation is a privilege and not an automatic right which can be taken for granted. as for kosovo, concerns still remain about the quality of passport security and organised crime. until these questions are fully answered, kosovo must necessarily remain outside the scope of our policies. but i, for one, am not opposed in principle to kosovo eventually achieving visa liberalisation. even though five eu countries do not recognise it, this alone should not be a reason not to grant kosovo as a territory the right to freedom of travel to the european union. no eu member state recognises taiwan, a territory for which i happen to be the president of the friendship group of this parliament, but nevertheless our union is shortly expected – and rightly so – to grant visa-free privileges to taiwanese nationals. so kosovo, a bit like taiwan, should enjoy the same privileges eventually when the time is right.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, can i say to the commissioner that when we voted on supervision, i said our legislation was like swiss cheese, full of holes, places where the common rule book would not reach. then last week bankers from around the eu assembled for eurofi, discussing basel iii. the word on everyone’s lips was ‘national’: national flexibility, national rules, national rules, national exemptions; the beast of perverse incentive was rampant. as soon as a framework is agreed for harmonisation and stability, the wriggling and the wheedling to make holes starts, and frankly it is no better here. i am fed up of it. why does europe have to be the cry-baby of basel? this is not what we intended with the supervisory architecture. it is not what is intended by basel iii. the facts are clear. g20 was clear. banks must be able to withstand the type of crisis that we have just had and capital is crucial to that. i am not blind to the problems of the real economy and the need for banks to lend and, like others, i look forward to the macro-economic and cumulative impact assessments, not just of basel, but of the whole post-crisis financial regulation that you, commissioner, and commissioner rehn both promised me in your competency hearings. to the banks i say – we cannot give weight to your protestations while your aggregates are cloaked in secrecy and you stamp ‘confidential’ on everything. so as far as i am concerned the extended timetable of basel is enough slippage: no more. now, commissioner, liquidity measures – as others have said – are not fully resolved, and i do fear more perverse incentives around the growing concentration on sovereign debt and short-term instruments. we must be very careful here, we must think and not replicate the same measures in every piece of the prudential regulation where they may not be appropriate and would destroy investments in equities and the real economy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i am very aware that the economic crisis is far from over and that we do need lending in the wider economy. however, last week we saw in ireland that banks are still coming to the taxpayer for their bailouts. we cannot continue to have the taxpayer bailing out banks. we need banks that are prepared to take risks, but they need the capital and liquidity to live within their means when those risks go wrong. this is a complicated piece of work, and one for which i would like to thank mr karas, but it is only part of the work, and we need the right resolution mechanisms too. it is very clear from the number of amendments across the floor that meps want to look at the detail and at the impact. we must make sure a similar approach is taken to the collateral in the derivatives language. first of all, there is an impact assessment – it was done for basel – but it is so cloaked in confidentiality that we cannot see it. let us release it and use it. when we make an international agreement, we need to make sure that it is implemented globally – not just here and in wall street, but globally. there are a number of places in this text where there is wriggle-room – paragraph 24, on minority interests and deferred taxes, paragraph 40 with its description of pfandbriefe and the new paragraph 43a. yes, basel should look at networks of small banks supporting each other. they are doing that. however, my interpretation of the english is that we could, in some way, be seen to be pre-empting their conclusion. furthermore, it has been agreed that there will be a migration towards a full and binding leverage ratio. let us not move away from that. i agree that, where we have good local practices, we should allow them to continue, but let us examine those in public and not bring in exemptions through the back door. the market will just assume that back door to be a way of promoting bad practices, rather than promoting good practices.
madam president, i do not know about companies having 400 years to pay off fines, but that does sound rather draconian. nonetheless, commissioner, i realise that you are not necessarily in a position tonight to make policy on the hoof either. to that effect, i will be submitting some questions to commissioner almunia on the issues that we are talking about tonight. i would like to make two brief points. firstly, i would request that the commission deliver on the impact assessments for the 2006 guidelines. i understand mr almunia’s staff have already indicated that this can be done. i am looking forward to seeing them. perhaps i just need to be up-to-date on that, but i would be reassured if that was the case. secondly, we have heard tonight that all the focus is on fines – and fines that are imposed on companies which violate the terms of competition. there may be a graduation of fines, but these do not seem to deter them. they still do it. we may have to be inventive about what we do. in the case of price fixing, for example, quite often small enterprises further downstream may be affected by the consequences of companies having done this and, through no fault of their own, fall foul of these particular fines. what if the commission was to think about the social impact for a minute? what if the commission was to think about adopting different approaches? in the uk, for example, the arrangements allow for the disqualification of directors, instead of imposing the fines, which actually deals with the culprits involved and allows the workforce and the companies to survive – an intelligent philosophy perhaps, and one we might borrow from as a model of what we could do, or even just as a pilot. there are other examples – as we have heard from around the floor, from other countries – where i am sure we could do the same. if we apply some intelligence to this, we can do a lot to secure that workforces for the companies out there are not equally affected by the bad practices of the directors who adopt this cartel philosophy.
madam president, i will be brief. i want to welcome what colleagues have said this evening. the power that we have in terms of fines in antitrust cases is a real power to break cartels, to prevent anti-competitive practices and to put the consumer first. there are three questions i want to ask the commission, like mr gauzès and others. firstly, what can we do better in terms of prevention? secondly, are we looking – as mr skinner said – at best practice in the different member states? mr skinner’s suggestion concerning board complicity, and what we can do about directors, is essential. thirdly, can we have a timescale for the prospective proposals?
madam president, the matter i was wanting to raise today is that, on 18 september, 36 members of this house, including myself, were honoured by the european lung foundation for our anti-tobacco work. this is actually the european year of the lung, and the petition can still be signed by colleagues who are interested in our work against the tobacco industry and on tobacco control. at the moment, only 10 out of the 27 member states have a comprehensive ban on smoking in public places, to make these places smoke-free. i am proud that scotland was one of the first countries to introduce a smoking ban in public places. the recent evidence suggests that there has been an 18% drop in the number of children coming into hospitals with asthma because of this ban on smoking in public places. this is something we have to see replicated across the european union. i would ask the house to congratulate the 36 colleagues who were presented with this award by the european lung foundation on 18 september.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, it has been suggested that the commission will withdraw regional development funding to all but the most economically weak areas of the union post-2013 by removing regional competitiveness and employment objective funding. although many areas of wales benefit under the convergence objective, reflecting the country’s economic shortcomings, as many as seven welsh regions are now threatened with losing eu money. eu funding to wales, currently worth gbp 280 million, could be withdrawn. financial support to numerous projects created under the auspices of the regional competitiveness programme could be stripped, threatening thousands of associated jobs. has the commission thought, at the very least, to draw up an impact assessment to judge the social and economic consequences of cutting funds? what transitional measures are being proposed? spending on debt-ridden euro zone countries, including greece, was pursued with little hesitation and amounts to a trillion euros over three years. wales also suffers high unemployment levels and will be greatly affected by forthcoming uk government civil service cuts. another threat to wales could be the proposed renationalisation of structural funding, which could see britain undersold on entitlement to support. the uk as a net contributor would likely be expected to bear the heaviest fiscal burden. the eur 55 billion spent on regional competitiveness and employment funding account for just 6% of the entire eu budget. the uk will continue to pour increasing amounts of money into brussels, yet the one area where some of that money is recouped – albeit very little – is the area the commission are looking to axe. it is, of course, my opinion that the people of wales would be better off if the uk left the eu. that way we could save billions and be the sole dictators of where much-needed financial provision is channelled.
mr president, parliament’s special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis parliament has concluded that one of the key instruments to aid economic recovery should be that of cohesion funding across all regions of the eu. my nation of wales is currently in receipt of cohesion funding, and given how badly the private sector in this region has been affected by the economic downturn, i and many others recognise the value of these funds to potentially transform the economy. funds, of course, need to be put to good use in sustainable projects, hopefully with many smes benefitting both directly and indirectly in order to ensure the return on investment for a future investment programme in these regions to use. the cohesion funding should be a mechanism for stimulating economic growth across the eu but needs to have a specific goal as supporting smes and entrepreneurs who are the backbone of our economy. investment, not spending, should be the goal, pre- and post-2013.
mr president, at a time when member states are reducing public spending, in the uk our government is seeking to overhaul the benefits system to make work pay more. i do believe, then, in this context that funds such as the esf have a vital role to play in ensuring the employability of those who are hard to reach and low-skilled. we in northern ireland receive significant funding from the esf administered through the department for learning and employment, and i note that in a recent house of lords enquiry into the esf, it was noted the esf continues to make a significant contribution to supporting economic growth in northern ireland, aimed at creating a knowledge-based economy with a highly-skilled and flexible workforce. it is therefore essential that future esf projects and the money directed towards them can be considered in the context of domestic schemes, many of which have similar aims. that level of joined-up and targeted thinking can only bring greater rewards. regional flexibility is of the utmost importance for the successful operation of the esf. post-2013, i believe that the limited resources of the esf should continue to be focused on assisting the hardest-to-reach and least-skilled into work or back into work through access to training and further education.
mr president, wales has benefited hugely from structural funding. it is therefore not surprising that i support the current basis of cohesion policy. i believe that structural funding should be made available to all regions across the eu and that adequate support should be provided for regions that no longer have convergence status. i believe competitiveness should be maintained, and would therefore urge all colleagues who are interested to attend this afternoon’s march, organised by the committee of the regions. finally, i believe the european social fund should remain part of cohesion policy and not be moved out to sectoral projects. i look forward to the publication of the fifth cohesion report, around 9 november. in particular, i look forward to talking about some of the details, including simplification of the process, particularly for applicants. i also look forward to discussing the definition of an urban area. that is a very important issue for us to discuss. we must also, of course, ensure that cohesion policy and structural funds have an adequate budget in the future.
in writing. − the serious human rights violations, including systematic and mass rapes, which have taken place in the democratic republic of congo are truly shocking. whilst this house's powers are limited in this area, it is important that we are united in condemning these atrocities and accordingly i supported today's resolution.
in writing. − ukip accepts there are legitimate arguments about the death penalty, both for and against. however, ukip feels that the decision to have or not have the death penalty is a decision that lies only with the individual nation state, and not the undemocratic eu. ukip notes the attempts the eu has made to interfere with other countries’ policies in this area. it is not for the eu to bully any country into maintaining abolition or enacting abolition of the death penalty. ukip also notes the way the eu has shut down any debate on this topic in the european context, despite public opinion on the subject. the maintenance or otherwise of the death penalty is, and should remain, a decision solely made at the nation state level via democratic means. any state with the death penalty should ensure proper procedures of evidence collection, prisoner interrogation and fair trials.
in writing. − whilst the eu is a global leader in the campaign against the death penalty, too many countries - including many with whom we have strong economic, social and cultural links - continue to execute people. i do not consider that capital punishment has any place in the 21st century and support today's call for a moratorium on executions.
in writing. − the abolition of the death penalty worldwide is a priority of this parliament and a particular priority of the socialists and democrats group. it is a violation of human rights and unacceptable in all circumstances, and i am pleased the parliament has endorsed this motion with such great support. as the most active and prominent supporter of abolition in the world, the eu had a responsibility to support civil society and organisations throughout the world campaigning for such a fundamental human right. there is a great amount of work to be done in supporting de facto abolitionist countries codifying such practice in law, in reducing the number of death penalty sentences handed down and carried out in other countries and in supporting campaigns to repeal death sentences, particularly where trial outcomes are not recognised as legally sound. this is a fundamental value of our union which we must defend publicly and often wherever possible.
in writing. − the british conservative delegation has traditionally given a free vote to all its members on the issue of the death penalty. we believe that the use of the death penalty should be a matter of conscience for each individual. however, we would like to stress that even when individual members are in support of the death penalty we believe that it should be reserved for only the most heinous of capital crimes, and we categorically condemn its use on minors.
in writing. − passing this resolution today, ahead of the eighth world day against the death penalty on sunday, once again relays the european parliament's call for a complete moratorium on all executions to those countries still using this barbaric form of punishment. it also reinforces the european parliament's view that all european citizens should be free from the threat of execution.
in writing. − i strongly support high safety standards in oil drilling throughout the eu, and particularly support calls for oil companies to maintain uniformly high standards in all countries they operate in - the current disparities between member states is unacceptable and unfair. the findings of the investigation into the deepwater horizon tragedy must be examined carefully once they are published, and particular care must be taken in reviewing safety standards when awarding licences for new drilling. given the high standards in north sea oil drilling in scotland, i do not think a uniform moratorium on new drilling is the best way to tackle this issue, but instead that detailed safety checks should be paramount in any decision to award new licences.
in writing. − at the heart of the financial crisis were banks taking excessive risks and failing to hold enough capital to cover those risks. the failures of those banks have brought on a crisis which continues to severely hurt citizens around the world. citizens have paid twice, with costs of a taxpayer bailout followed by the pain of recession and spending cuts. to prevent a repeat of such a crisis requires a fundamental revision of the financial regulatory framework and this must include a stronger capital framework for banks. proposals to improve the capital requirements directive are therefore central to creating stable and responsible banks. this report endorses the aims and proposals set out by the g20 and the basel committee, to ensure banks hold sufficient amounts of capital of a suitable quality, and that they have the liquidity and stable funding necessary to withstand tough market conditions. labour meps are voting for this report as it backs the reform process, but we do not support any calls to weaken the proposals adopted by basel. we encourage further study of the impact of the measures where appropriate, but with a view to ensuring full, tough and timely international implementation.
in writing. − i wish to confirm my support for this report. as the commission knows, parliament has always felt that arrangements for the agreement of basel ii inadequately reflect the parliamentary process. with so much at stake between the major financial nations a reconsideration of issues such as capital ratios and leverage demand stronger oversight by parliament. this report has helped correct the imbalance of institutional involvement from the ep and the commission needs to acknowledge that.
in writing. − the current financial crisis has demonstrated the risks taken, and lack of capital held to cover those risks, by many banks. this irresonsibility continues to cost european citizens, both in terms of bank bailouts and spending cuts as a result of the ensuing recession. any revision of the financial regulatory framework must include proposals to improve the capital requirements directive and therefore central to creating stable and responsible banks. this report endorses the aims and proposals set out by the g20 and the basel committee, to ensure banks hold sufficient amounts of capital of a suitable quality, and that they have the liquidity and stable funding necessary to withstand tough market conditions. i voted for this report as it backs the reform process, but i will not support any calls to weaken the proposals adopted by basel. i would also suggest further study of the impact of the measures where appropriate, but with a view to ensuring full, tough and timely international implementation.
in writing. − as part of the current debate on the future of cohesion policy after 2013 this resolution sets out the parliament's commitment to ensuring that the european social fund remains part of the overall strategy for cohesion funding. there is however a need for increased flexibility and a simplification of the rules surrounding the fund. the esf can act as the main tool in achieving the europe 2020 strategy by focusing on skills and jobs across the eu. in order to achieve this we need to ensure the esf remains part of cohesion policy.
mr president, the set-up of the hybrid sui generis eeas has been characterised by much debate, but high representative ashton deserves some credit for crafting a consensus on the way forward at a time when european leaders have been distracted by the eurozone crisis. british conservatives opposed the creation of this service, fearing it would erode britain’s prerogative to exercise an independent foreign policy. now that the service is a political reality, we will engage with it constructively in order to ensure that british interests are indeed promoted and protected. one way is by lobbying for british eu officials and british diplomats from the foreign office to fill posts in the service, because surprisingly, the uk is under-represented in the eu institutions. while the new service needs to be representative of the eu’s 27 member states, it must be built first and foremost on merit. finally, member states are making deep cuts in public spending. the eu must be sensitive to the need for austerity, particularly when it comes to the budget of the eeas. budget neutrality is vital if the european external action service is to gain and retain the confidence and approval of all of europe’s citizens.
mr president, while the idea of having a european external action service was never really welcome around europe, the eu bureaucracy managed to sell it, saying it would be budget neutral. now we realise that it is not budget neutral, and that it will cost eur 34 million more than the eur 441 million originally planned. and this difference emerges even before it is fully operational. the report on the financial regulation calls for the commission’s chief accountant and the commission’s internal auditor to act in these roles for the eeas, while it was agreed in madrid that the eeas would be a separate institution with its own heads of finance and audit. it does not look as though the agreements made in madrid back in june were set in stone. we are now lost in a sea of confusion about the eeas’s structure. the implementation of this lisbon treaty novelty looks pretty disgraceful, but i must say i am not surprised. as always, however, it will be the taxpayer who pays for these ‘efficiencies’.
madam president, i shall start off by congratulating the high representative today for upholding the long parliamentary tradition of crossing the floor. most politicians who do that end up losing friends, but i am sure today she has won them. there will still be some people in this house who have counted the number of minutes you have been on one side or another to accuse you of bias and, of course, i have my own questions about this new service. i want crisis management fully in, i want human rights mainstreamed and linked to trade, and i have sympathy with what many of our eastern european colleagues say, but do i have absolute confidence that you are creating this service fully in the spirit of the treaty? do i have confidence that you will continue to bring together and to speak for all of the different interests in this european union? do i have absolute confidence of your lifelong commitment to the principles of equality and representatives? yes, i do, and so will this parliament in our vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i believe the minimum income report that we have voted through in the committee on employment and social affairs is the best way forward and will achieve the widest support. that is why i urge you to reject amendments 1 and 2. i have always been a passionate supporter of a minimum income in all member states, and i have written it into all the reports i have ever done on social inclusion, but i believe the best way of achieving this is through an exchange of best practice. in my view, if we try to take the legislative route we will fail to take everyone with us and will not achieve what we all want – a decent standard of living for all and to take people out of poverty and avoid homelessness. in the employment committee report we also say that the most effective way out of poverty is to give labour market access to all. one way of achieving this is to make sure the employment directive is implemented effectively across all member states. when formulating policy regarding poverty and social inclusion, we must listen to people at the sharp end – in other words, those who are experiencing poverty and homelessness themselves. we must make sure that member states meet their targets for poverty reduction as outlined in the eu 2020 strategy. i would also like to point out in this debate that we are talking about a minimum income – in other words, out-of-work benefits and not wages.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i find this debate rather risible, almost laughable. i have heard several speeches now and we have been talking about eradicating poverty without once mentioning how we create more wealth. you cannot eradicate poverty without creating wealth, otherwise what you are doing is just distributing from one to another, not creating new wealth. in the international domain, eur 880 billion come out of the developing countries through all sorts of corruption and other activities which are not recorded or taxable or deposited in proper banks. this is a scandal of the financial community in international development. those eur 880 billion should be creating wealth in the developing countries. in europe, poverty is on the increase because we are over-regulating ourselves against creating wealth when challenges are now coming from india and china. we need to revisit this.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, poverty, especially the number of those at risk of poverty, has grown as the eu has grown, with each new member state adding to the problem, so it is pretty obvious how to prevent further increases. one of your answers is to introduce a minimum income. i am in favour of a minimum wage, but only as set by each country for itself. a pan-eu minimum wage would distort the issue. in scandinavia, for example, domestic heating must be more expensive for all income groups than in southern europe. i oppose a minimum income because that means public funds to top up a low wage: more for the taxpayer to find in an economic crisis. how do you stop some employers paying less than they might because they know the benefit system will make it up? answer: more regulations and red tape for businesses, falling most heavily on the smes who between them employ half the workforce. and, of course, minimum income harmonised across the eu will be followed by a harmonised tax system, reducing all to a grey amorphous mass, devoid of europe’s greatest property: diversity.
madam president, i think we are all aware of the importance of minimum income schemes across the european union, although not all member states have them in place yet. we also know that there are very big variations in effectiveness, that there is often no clear basis for the amounts that are paid, and that the amounts paid do not necessarily keep pace with rising costs. some member states have a very poor take-up, so people are not getting their entitlements, and some also time-limit these income schemes, which seems very bizarre for something that is meant to be a safety net. i believe very strongly that we need a common framework across the european union that gives clear principles for how we develop these schemes and a clear methodology for working on them. we are not talking about the same level of payment in each member state and to keep saying this is to perpetuate something which is deeply untrue. we do need to develop these schemes so that everybody in the eu can live in dignity.
in writing. − the ecr group firmly and consistently believes that decisions relating to social policy and employment law should not be made at eu level but at member state level by national and local governments. we recognise that a minimum standard of treatment of workers in the workplace is important and are pleased that the european parliament is raising awareness of the issue, but we feel that this standard should relate to both men and women and that specific recommendations relating to employment contracts and childcare, for example, do not fall within the eu’s sphere of responsibility.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this parliament has joined the european commission in demanding an increase of almost 6% for the 2011 budget at a time when national governments are proposing significant cuts to their own budgets. those who defend the increase argue that extra funding is required to cover the new competences arising from the lisbon treaty. in fact, i do not remember having heard – or anybody mentioning at the time of ratification – that there would be any cost associated with lisbon, or what this cost would be. not even today do we have a clear idea about what the implementation of the lisbon treaty will cost the taxpayer. it is also alleged that austerity is not the right answer in times of crisis, and that it is necessary to spend more on education, renewable energy, etc. looking at the underspend for the past few years, it is clear that the eu does not succeed in producing an efficient budget. this failure is linked to the irregularities identified by the european court of auditors every year. yet again, the biggest increase that is being proposed – a 17% increase – goes to the cohesion funds, the area where the auditors report the highest number of irregularities. if i find it stunning that in times of crisis this eu is looking to increase its own budget, i find it more difficult to explain that the european parliament wants to double its own entertainment budget. are we saying that the uk is axing child benefits and university funding, postponing school-building schemes and making other painful cuts just to fund more champagne and oysters for the european parliament? is it reasonable for the uk to make military spending cuts while its net contribution to the european union will increase from around gbp 6 billion to gbp 8 billion in the next couple of years? this is simply unacceptable for the british people. (applause from the efd group)
mr president, first of all i should like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done on the budget. every budget is difficult, but against the backdrop of cuts in member states, perhaps this budget is more difficult than normal. indeed, the coalition government in the uk will tomorrow announce savage cuts of around gbp 83 billion which will affect every single person in the uk. we believe that is too quick, too soon and too much. we all, however, know we have to be careful with eu spending and therefore we need to make sure that the eu spends its money wisely. we also need to ensure that the eu and the european parliament are able to carry out their responsibilities and that we are able to fund our priorities – priorities such as the structural funds and research and development which benefit individuals, communities and smes right across the eu. all these things will also help us grow our way out of deficit and debt. these items should not been seen as unnecessary spending, but as investments in our future. whilst member states want to cut their way out of the crisis, we believe we can help create a different strategy: a strategy based on growing our way out of difficulties such as debt, deficit and growing unemployment. because we need to find funding for these priorities, we need of course to monitor unnecessary spending and administration costs. when extra spending is justified, we should support it. let us remember that some of the extra expenditure the eu now has is the result of decisions supported by member states, such as the external action service and the creation of three new financial governance agencies. where spending is unnecessary, we should oppose it. this is true for the general budget, as well as the budget of the european parliament. the rapporteur has already given some examples of areas in which we have made efforts to make savings in parliament’s budget. i will just give one: releasing the reserve on the second tranche of eur 1 500 per member per month. we need to get the full costs involved in employing extra staff before we consider releasing the reserve, and i would hope members would support that view. i would also hope that when they vote tomorrow members would look at every single amendment carefully to ensure we have the right balance between investment and carrying out our responsibilities as a parliament, and careful public spending. i am sure every member would want to ensure that the eu adds value to member state spending, as well as to individuals and communities. finally, i would hope that in the conciliation meetings the council will recognise that it needs to look not just at cuts, but also at investments and growth for jobs right across the eu, which we desperately need.
madam president, congratulations to the rapporteurs in what are very trying and difficult financial circumstances, as we have heard in the debate this afternoon. at a time when the british government is proposing the most wide-ranging budget cuts in a generation we, as conservatives, have been calling for a freeze on european spending. we believe that the european union budget must be used to add genuine value in areas such as securing economic growth now, and recovery in the future, stability in the eu and around the world, reducing global poverty and fighting the shared challenge of climate change. furthermore, we have tabled amendments to the budget resolution where we want clarification in three specific areas: on the costs, for example, of parliament’s external offices in the member states; disquiet about non-governmental organisations’ funding, on which we would like a report from the european commission; and last, but not least, the generous pension arrangements in the staff regulations, including those for retiring commissioners. these are issues on which we want clarification in the months ahead. with regard to the broader view, we have had a press release from the european commission this afternoon. firstly, we believe that this is not an opportune moment to think about additional own resources in the midst of the worst financial crisis in the last 70 years. second, mr commissioner, while saying ‘yes’ we need more flexibility and ‘yes’ we want to have more emphasis on the results and the inputs, how is that compatible with calling for a 10-year financial perspective when we see the results of a mid-term review are entirely fruitless in this kind of exercise that we are going through? we cannot set figures in stone ten years ahead when we do not even know what the european economy is going to look like in two years. lastly, as far as my country is concerned, our net contribution is rising by 60% in the next two years, but we have had no concomitant change in the cap. why should it be any different this year? we should be calling for a net cap on our contribution until we have a fair system for the eu budget.
madam president, the report says ‘the eu budget should in no way be perceived as a burden to national budgets.’ for countries like the uk that are forced to endure cuts in expenditure at home, any increase in the eu budget would be inappropriate, let alone the original 5.9% increase proposed. a money terms cut or a freeze would probably be more appropriate. the united kingdom has had a double dose of the bitter pill. we have seen our rebate reduced by a third in the last year alone, making us even more of a net contributor than we were. it has been said that while the eu has been a net contributor, the new member countries have been net recipients, for which of course their peoples cannot be blamed. in light of that undeniable fact, would it not be madness to continue to pursue expansion to include even poorer, and undeniably burdensome, countries like turkey which are not, by any stretch of the imagination, even european?
thank you for your comments. we have made every effort to check the position with regard to the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and there was no formal opinion, but obviously your point will be noted. so far as speaking time is concerned, that is clearly a matter for the political groups to sort out and allocate. the debate is closed. the votes will take place on wednesday. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the budget review.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in presenting the mid-term review for the multiannual financial framework, the european commission is bringing news which i believe will be a cause for concern for all europeans, but more specifically for the british people. while there is a modest approach to limit common agricultural policy expenditure, there is a more radical attempt to eliminate the british rebate. but, worse still, there is a clear intention to create a new own resource. like a thief, the european union now wants to directly plunder the pockets of the british taxpayer. be it carbon tax, a bank levy or whatever, it is certain that the taxpayers will be taking more pain. when people see the eu taking their money, they will increasingly resent the eu waste and lack of transparency. the elimination of the rebate and the creation of a new european tax – let us call it by its correct name – will not require a change in the treaty. however, the agreement reached between the german chancellor and the french president about imposing political sanctions to ensure financial stability will require those changes. if the eu wants more power, it must ask the consent of the governed. if eu politicians want a new treaty, they must first give the people a referendum. now there is a chance for ‘cast-iron dave’ to make good on his reneged promise to hold an eu referendum. i will believe that when i see it.
the next item is question time (b7-0552/2010). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question 19 by enrique guerrero salom (h-0484/10) subject: eu-africa summit/food security in connection with world food day on 16 october 2009, the fao has recently indicated that the situation remains unsatisfactory despite a slight improvement regarding the number of those suffering from chronic hunger in the world (925 million this year, compared with 1023 billion in 2009). the lack of food security is threatening to undermine mdg objective 1, particularly in sub-saharan africa. in the run-up to the next eu-africa summit (tripoli, 29 and 30 november), many of those concerned are anxious that the strategic partnership should place greater emphasis on food security, including issues relating to access to food, infrastructures, land ownership and adjustment to climate change. does the commission consider it necessary to introduce a new specific partnership for food security under the joint africa-eu strategy? does it intend to step up coordination on horizontal issues in the context of existing partnerships, this being necessary to achieve food security in africa?
question 20 by marc tarabella (h-0453/10) subject: ensuring respect for air and rail passengers' rights regulations (ec) no 261/2004 oj l 46, 17.2.2004, p. 1. and no 1371/2007 oj l 315, 3.12.2007, p. 14. bestow a highly important set of minimum rights on all air and rail passengers in the european union. in each member state, an independent body is responsible for monitoring the implementation of these regulations. how can the commission ensure that the supervisory bodies apply the regulations in a uniform manner and have sufficient resources to respond rapidly to challenges, in particular in view of the rather chaotic way in which airline passengers were dealt with following the icelandic volcano crisis?
question 21 by marian harkin (h-0455/10) subject: directive 2002/15/ec following the vote in parliament on 16 june 2010 to reject the commission proposal on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities, what is the current state of play with regard to this proposal?
question 22 by georgios koumoutsakos (h-0462/10) subject: road safety 2011-2020 - special measures for school buses and their drivers every year some 35 000 people are killed and 1.7 million injured in road accidents in the european union. among the statistics, one figure is of particular concern: in 2008, 1100 children were victims of road accidents in the european union. with reference to the commission's road safety programme 2011-2020, and bearing in mind that millions of children travel to and from school every day by bus, will the commission answer the following: what specific initiatives and measures will it take, in conjunction with the member states, to ensure more effective prevention of road accidents involving children? will it introduce stricter safety standards and quality controls for buses used for school transport and for professional drivers of such buses (use of advanced technology equipment, more frequent checks on drivers' professional skills and experience, and on their personal integrity via psychological testing, for example)? question 23 by jim higgins (h-0466/10) subject: road safety targets in the eu is the commission concerned that the number of road deaths annually eu-wide still remains unacceptably high, at 35 000 road traffic fatalities in 2009 across the eu? is the commission concerned that the european road safety action plan to cut road deaths from 50 000 to 25 000 between the years 2001 and 2010 has failed? could the commission outline how it will ensure that the eu's revised programme for road safety, between 2011 and 2020, will in fact meet its targets?
question 24 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0464/10) subject: excess transport in the baltic sea the world wide fund for nature international ngo announced in august that an increase in commercial activity over the next 20 years will seriously damage the baltic sea. shipping, industrial activity on the high seas and tourism will more than double. in the tourism sector, the number of passengers on board ships is expected to rise from 5 to 20 million. in 2030, the number of ships will have increased from 4 000 to 9 000, and there will be a proportionate increase in the probability of environmental incidents. an annual increase of over 150 ships is currently being recorded. unlike other seas, beaches are quickly polluted by oil spills in the baltic as the seawater is only renewed every 30 years. how does the commission assess the threat posed by excess shipping in the baltic and what measures does it propose that member states bordering the sea adopt to resolve this issue? does the commission agree with the ngo's proposals to restrict commercial transport in the baltic sea?
commissioner, you are a model commissioner in that your answers are accurate, helpful and brief. that is very appropriate at question time.
question 36 by karin kadenbach (h-0476/10) subject: common agricultural policy and cross-compliance cross-compliance is an important element of the common agricultural policy that links most cap payments to the observance of certain rules in the areas of environment, health and animal welfare. court of auditors special report no 8/2008 includes the finding that ‘member states did not take their responsibility to implement effective control and sanction systems. as a consequence the control system provides insufficient assurance on farmer compliance’. the report adds that ‘data provided by the member states on checks and infringements is not reliable and the commission’s performance monitoring was found wanting’. can the commission tell parliament what it is doing to encourage member states to implement and enforce cross-compliance more effectively? are any improvements noticeable?
question 37 by nikolaos chountis (h-0483/10) subject: assistance for greek farmers and fishermen from the guarantee fund for small and very small businesses the greek ministry for rural development and food has announced the launching in september 2010 of the rural guarantee fund for small and very small businesses (tempme), similar to that existing for small and very small industrial and business enterprises, providing interest-rate subsidies and bank guarantees to a total of €100 million for agriculture and €50 million for fisheries. given that this would enable farmers and fishermen to cut investment costs and capital participation during a period of economic austerity: has the greek government informed the commission about the above initiative? (a) if so, is it providing funding for this purpose? how much funding is being provided and what conditions must be met by beneficiaries? (b) if not, does the commission consider it desirable to incorporate such an initiative in the nsrf? will it suggest this to the greek government?
question 40 by seán kelly (h-0458/10) subject: aquaculture in the eua sustainable and competitive eu aquaculture sector can offer a way of meeting the large and growing demand for seafood products in the eu, thereby reducing the depletion of wild stocks and the level of imports from third countries, which often arrive at eu markets after a journey involving thousands of air miles. aquaculture now represents 20% of the total fish production in the eu, at a value which has been more or less constant since 2000. however, there has been a fall-off in the production of molluscs/shellfish. bearing in mind the traceability, quality and co2 issues involved in importing large quantities of molluscs from distant third countries, can the commission outline how it intends to promote aquaculture in the eu, with special reference to the mollusc/shellfish sector?
question 41 by ioannis a. tsoukalas (h-0459/10) subject: use of european fisheries fund resources given that the commission is required to submit a report at the end of every year on the implementation of council regulation (ec) no 1198/20061 on the european fisheries fund and in the light of the recent financial crisis faced by a number of member states which depend to a large extent on the fisheries sector, will the commission answer the following: how does it assess the implementation of the regulation to date? which member states could serve as examples of best practice? have the member states made sufficient use of the european fisheries fund? to what extent has the fund achieved its objectives since it was established in 2007 and what adjustments are necessary? how does it assess the performance of greece's national strategic plan for fisheries development to date? what is the rate of implementation of the projects and what is the take-up rate of the appropriations concerned? oj l 223, 15.8.2006, p. 1
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.30 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, on behalf of my political group, and also as the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i want to thank mrs weiler in particular as the rapporteur, and also all the many colleagues from the committee who are here today, for a great example of teamwork. i include in that both the council and the commission. there is a lot of talk about smart regulation at the moment, but i think this is a classic example of smart regulation. for a start, it goes to the heart of problems that many small businesses are experiencing in an economy in which they are finding conditions very difficult at the moment. we must insist that member states implement this proposal as soon as possible. secondly, the commission rightly analysed the problems and successes of the previous directive, and i want to remark here that this was the first directive where the agreement of the committee coordinators to invite the commission to present its full impact assessment of any proposal was carried out to the full. we had a very comprehensive impact assessment which clearly identified the areas which needed to be changed. above all, the insistence now that public authorities in particular also have to conform to the standards applied to the private sector and cannot abuse their position against small suppliers by complying with these requirements, is absolutely central. this is the major achievement, and i particularly want to thank the belgian presidency – and i see that they are represented here this evening – because they resisted demands from some member states to try and get themselves a carve-out from this 60-day requirement. we said to the belgian presidency that there is no point whatsoever in having this directive if you allow this to happen. it is devoid of meaning if you let public authorities off the hook. i think this is a good example of smart regulation, but may i just conclude by making two final observations. first of all, we must get this implemented properly and consistently in every member state; and secondly, it must result in a change of culture which says that it is simply no longer acceptable for large customers to exploit small businesses by paying them late. i think this is what this directive will achieve.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. − mr president, in my opinion on mr feio’s report on governance and the stability framework, i emphasised three points. the first was the need to be serious about sanctioning member states that breach the stability pact. just a couple of days ago, the french prime minister and the german chancellor even agreed to change the treaty to bring in tougher sanctions against countries that threaten the euro’s stability. i also emphasised the need to prioritise spending in the budget in case a member state has to be rescued. finally, i raised awareness about the need to evaluate the impact on the credit rating of the european union since it acted as guarantor of the european financial stabilisation mechanism. the relevant paragraphs have been amended and no longer form part of my opinion. i feel obliged in these circumstances to disown my opinion.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, well president barroso, you are certainly flexing your muscles, using the powers given to you by the lisbon treaty which you pushed through using illegitimate means. you now do everything you can on the world stage and within the eu to acquire all the attributes of statehood. nowhere could that be more apparent than in your recent proposal for a direct tax to be levied by the european institutions on the peoples of this continent. of course, in previous times there was a very successful independence movement that campaigned on the slogan of ‘no taxation without representation’ and you certainly are not a representative. we have not voted for you and we cannot remove you, so i think with this direct tax you have actually made a mistake. and what an expensive club it is becoming. just two years ago, britain’s net contribution was gbp 3 billion a year. this year it is gbp 6 billion. next year it will be gbp 8 billion. the year after that it is due to be gbp 10 billion and now we hear that you want to take away the british rebate. you want to get rid of the british rebate, which will mean by 2013 our contribution will be gbp 13 billion. it will have quadrupled in the space of six years. the taxpayers of britain, realising all of this, seeing your direct tax, will simply conclude that we cannot afford the european union. but i do see a ray of hope: the deauville deal between merkel and sarkozy, the thing that you are all so terrified of today. i hope it happens. let us have a new treaty. you yourself seem to be almost supporting it. let us have a new european treaty and let us put it to a referendum in lots of countries, particularly in britain, and the british people will conclude that this is a very bad deal for britain. they will vote for us to leave the european union and begin the unravelling. thank you. we are happy to go. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i think we ought to do away with this notion of european money. prior to there being a direct tax, there is, as we speak today, no such thing as european money: it is our money. we are a massive net contributor to this european union for no single economic benefit in return whatsoever! it is our money!
mr president, as we have heard, the task force chaired by herman van rompuy has now produced its report. it contains proposals for crisis resolution and budgetary discipline: in other words, only part of the picture. i would emphasise that these are only proposals. i am sure the ecofin ministers who dominated the proceedings of that task force would like it to be the end point, but it is not. it is the beginning. we are right at the very beginning of the legislative process. i hope all of the institutions will realise that the work of the european parliament on the commission’s legislative proposals will now need to be conducted in a fully democratic process with the council. the task force said that its aim was to achieve a quantum leap in terms of more effective economic governance. i think what it is proposing is actually more like a potential step back in terms of prosperity and well-being for europe. it is proposing a strengthening of instruments, but only instruments that focus upon fiscal discipline. that is a problem. economic coordination is more than fiscal discipline and economic union will not be achieved as long as that balance is not properly recognised. it will inevitably lead to distorted economic policies which take insufficient account of other worthwhile policy objectives for the conduct of macro-economic policy, and by that i mean growth, investment and employment. president barroso, we do not need another taskforce to come up with a balanced set of policy measures. we need the commission to use its right of initiative to bring forward the proposals that will address growth, investment and employment. regarding the proposals now on the table, i believe that parliament has an enormous responsibility in the coming months. we need to make some changes along the lines of the feio report to be voted on today. i think we need three main changes there: the excessive balances procedure has to be broad enough to cover labour markets, including unemployment levels, and therefore the employment council needs to be included wherever relevant; the qualitative assessment of public debt levels and developments in the corrective arm of the stability and growth pact should pay full attention to levels and developments in public investment as well; and the linkage with 2020 throughout the new system needs to be explicit and operationalised as fully as possible. on governance, i would mention only two points at this early stage. the council needs to guide the system and assume ultimate political responsibility throughout, as well as ensuring the due involvement of all relevant council formations – not just ecofin – wherever that is necessary. finally, the european parliament needs to be fully involved throughout the process in order to ensure the highest level of democratic legitimacy. just look at the proposal for the european semester to see to what extent the role of the parliament is missing in all of this. some of us across the political groups are working on strengthened proposals for parliamentary involvement. i hope they will be accepted by the other institutions to give this process the democratic legitimacy it needs.
mr president, the combined topics of this morning’s debate have a strong common theme of our continued response to the financial crisis and to finding ways to make our management of the risk more effective, whether it be risk management of public debt, risk management of our financial markets and products, or the risk management of global imbalances. whether it is the behaviour of our banks or the behaviour of member states’ treasury departments, we need to ensure a common high standard of behaviour with respect to adhering to an agreed set of rules. stronger financial and fiscal discipline by both the private and public sectors needs to be enforced. we need to ensure that, in the search for growth opportunities by the eu, the financing tools used by the eu and the individual member states are of the highest calibre and as transparent as possible. the use of innovative financing needs to be approached with caution, and the moves by the eu to leverage its own budget need to be taken into account, knowing all the risks and the potential for moral hazard. the european financial stabilisation fund is a large off-balance-sheet vehicle reliant on a credit rating. to leverage the eu budget in the issuance of project bonds by the eib needs to be subject to intense scrutiny. as we all know, complex financial instruments and leverage bring their own risk. there is no free money and there are no short cuts.
mr president, better economic governance is required with earlier warnings and earlier actions. traditional debt and deficit targets have been breached by many countries, but would not have warned us about the crisis pending in spain or ireland. other measures are needed too. economics, however, is not an exact science and it is not just about numbers. soviet history reminds us that central counting of tractor production does not in itself bring a strong economy, and centralised taxes or a centralised treasury are not a utopian solution either. there are many questions about what actions to take now. threatening to fine a nearly bankrupt nation feels like an empty threat, and promises of continual eurozone bailouts will always bring moral hazard. i am aware that people are concerned about franco-german deals, but perhaps they have a point. if the market lends the money, then maybe the market should take the loss, not the taxpayer.
mr president, we have been promised economic growth, but the competition that european countries face from the developing economies will lead to the destruction of the manufacturing bases and jobs of our countries. we can only compete with them by driving down the living standards of our workers. we must reject globalism, protect our economies and stop building up the strength of our competitors. we have been promised improved economic governance in europe. however, the economies of member states are very different and a single economic prescription will not suit 27 different countries. each country must prescribe the form of governance that it needs. the economic crisis started with the activities of the banks, but the response of governments has been to rush to their rescue. we need to control the credit-creating activities, i.e. the money-making activities, of the banks. the banks must serve our economies and not be allowed to follow their own agenda, and they must certainly not be our favoured beneficiaries.
mr president, may i ask you to make a ruling please? we see that balloons are displayed in the chamber. can you make a ruling on whether that is permissible or not. if it is not, may they be removed? if it is, my colleagues and i have some very tasteful ukip balloons in purple and yellow which we would like to bring along next time. (applause)
mr president, i was in the chamber on monday evening when the green group asked for a postponement. mr daul and mr schulz were here and they both voted against that postponement. (applause)so what has changed? is it really some important legal issue, or is the truth that they realise they are in severe danger of losing amendment no 4 and they want to postpone it so as to apply pressure to members of their own groups? (applause)this has nothing to do with the fictitious reason we have been given, and i would urge colleagues to vote against this delay and vote in favour of amendment no 4. (applause)
mr president, i have voted today and my constituents can see how i voted today, so therefore they should have the opportunity to have my explanation of vote today.
mr president, i have the following comments for my fellow meps. today was the first time post-lisbon that we have voted on the budget. you all applauded yourselves and you think you have done a good job but in fact, while countries across the european union are having to cut public services and having to cut their public budgets, you wanted to increase yours. you have increased your entertainment budget by eur 2 million, an 85% increase. is this the real message that you want to send to the people of europe? you have also passed provisions on maternity pay that are going to have a severe impact on my constituents within the uk. this is going to cost jobs; this is going to affect public services. i hope you are proud of yourselves today. this is not the way to run europe.
in writing. − this is a great achievement for the parliament and a positive framework for relations between the parliament and the commission. i particularly welcome the acknowledgement of council and parliament’s ‘equal footing’ and the implications that has for parliament's access to confidential documents, its right to be informed of commission meetings with national experts and its participation in international conferences. i am also pleased that parliament will have a strong role in legislative programming, and have frequent opportunities to debate and question these issues with the commission in plenary and committee.
in writing. − mr. president i have always been opposed to the creation of the eeas – nothing would have changed my opinion on it. but i am aware of the assurances given as the eu went about its campaign of persuasion, garnering support for the eeas. we were told that the eeas would be budget-neutral. yet where are we now? budget neutrality is now but another eu promise whistling in the wind. we are now 34m over the planned budget due to demands for yet more staff and other start-up costs, and the eeas isn't even operational! the eeas represents yet another example of wasted taxpayer's money, for a service my constituents do not want but have forced upon them by bureaucrats who seek to squeeze more and more power away from national government towards the eu. such bureaucracy is unacceptable and must be cut back in these times of economic crisis, not enhanced.
in writing. − i believe any proposal to increase the eu budget to be unacceptable, on the basis that i cannot justify to my constituents increasing eu spending by nearly 6% in 2011. today, the uk chancellor is outlining drastic public sector cuts - cuts that the eu have urged member states to make. yet, at the same time, the same eu deems it appropriate that the budget of this place increases by 6%. do as i say, not as i do seems to be official eu policy. i find that unacceptable. i could not look my constituents in the eye, some who will undoubtedly lose their jobs as a result of cuts in uk spending, and say that meps spent even more of their money wisely - and remember it is their money - by boosting the coffers of the eeas, europol and regulation of financial services. and i certainly could not justify increasing the entertainment budget of this place either. that is why i voted against this budget. it is for others to justify why they endorsed it.
in writing. − on individual votes, i voted against provisions which i believe have negative consequences for eu citizens and people in developing countries. this includes eu funding for tobacco production, as well as eu agricultural export subsidies which harm developing countries. i also voted against increases in budget lines relating to expenses, travel and administrative costs. however, i welcome the positive elements of the parliament's first reading, including funding for economic development in our regions, support for crucial research and development and increased overseas aid in line with the uk's target to increase development assistance. i believe the eu budget is needed to provide long-term stability against the severe austerity measures which are being introduced by national governments in europe. while national governments implement drastic cuts, in some cases, with a short-term vision, the eu budget can provide stability and long-term planning to help – through funds such as the structural funds and cohesion funds – create jobs, provide job training and boost european economies through the recovery, particularly by providing structural funds to deprived areas hit the hardest.
in writing. − i welcome the positive elements of the 2011 budget, which include funding for economic development in wales, support for research and development, and overseas aid. i recognise that extra expenditure resulting from the european external action service and new european supervisory authorities is required and is supported by all member states, including the uk, in the council. however, i am concerned about expenditure in a number of areas that do not reflect value for money or have negative consequences for eu citizens and people in developing countries. this includes eu funding for alcohol and tobacco production, which conflicts with the eu’s health objectives, and eu agricultural export subsidies, which harm developing countries, as well as increases in budget lines relating to expenses, travel, publications and other administrative costs. in the current economic environment it is more important than ever to justify expenditure on our priorities by tackling all wasteful and excessive spending in other sectors. i did not feel able to oppose this budget. during challenging economic times, voting against vital funding for a wide range of priorities would be counterproductive. however i also believe that some increases were not justified and therefore i took the decision to abstain.
in writing. − the eplp welcomes the positive elements in the parliament’s first reading position, including funding for economic development in our regions, support for crucial research and development and increased overseas aid in line with the uk’s target to increase total overseas development assistance. we also recognise that extra expenditure resulting from the european external action service and the new european supervisory authorities is essential to implement these important new activities, and is supported by all member states, including the uk, in the council. however, we are deeply concerned about expenditure in a number of areas that do not reflect value for money or have negative consequences for eu citizens and people in developing countries. this includes eu funding for alcohol and tobacco production, which conflicts with the eu’s health objectives, and eu agricultural export subsidies which harm developing countries, as well as increases in budget lines relating to expenses, travel, publications and other administrative costs. in the current economic environment it is more important than ever to justify expenditure on our priorities by tackling all wasteful and excessive spending in other sectors. the eplp voted against the final budget resolution at this stage, to send a clear message ahead of negotiations between the institutions.
in writing. − regarding amendment 9: ukip voted in favour of this amendment which merely stated that ‘all parents have the right to care for their child.’ ukip by no means supports the legitimacy of this directive, as it should be for elected national governments to decide welfare and social policies. however the uk government is far too cavalier in taking children into state care, so voting in favour of this recital will be a shot across their bow. regarding the proposal in general: ukip do not accept the legitimacy of this directive as it should be for elected national governments to decide welfare and social policies. this directive will bring unbelievable costs to employers and the government, which we can ill afford at this time. this will also further the discrimination of women by making them even more costly to hire than they already are, especially for small businesses, which are the backbone of the uk economy. ukip is furthermore sympathetic to parents with disabled children and those choosing to adopt, however the eu has no right to create such rules on maternity and cannot be allowed the legitimacy to do so. ukip voted against this directive to ensure that legislation is accountable through the ballot box and not through brussels bureaucrats.
in writing. − regarding the proposal in general, ukip do not accept the legitimacy of this directive as it should be for elected national governments to decide welfare and social policies. this directive will bring unbelievable costs to employers and the government, which we can ill afford at this time. this will also further the discrimination of women by making them even more costly to hire than they already are, especially for small businesses which are the backbone of the uk economy. ukip is furthermore sympathetic to parents with disabled children and those choosing to adopt, however the eu has no right to create such rules on maternity and cannot be allowed the legitimacy to do so. ukip voted against this directive to ensure that legislation is accountable through the ballot box and not through brussels bureaucrats.
in writing. − whilst i support the rights of pregnant women, i can not in this current economic climate support this report. the impact assessment estimate for the uk, if maternity leave is extended to 20 weeks, is almost gbp 2.5 billion per year on average. this would result in the cost of maternity leave in the uk doubling. evidence shows that women are currently benefiting considerably from the provisions already in force within the uk, 9 out of 10 women taking the 20 weeks maternity leave, as well as 3 in 4 women taking all their paid leave. with such a high uptake, it is clear that more european red tape on top of the current legislation is unnecessary in the uk. in addition, the proposed requirement for 20 weeks’ full pay would result in social regression. this is due to the fact that women on the highest salaries will receive the highest compensation. i fully support the need for adequate, flexible maternity leave, but i believe it is for the elected uk government to decide, with an input from parents and their employers, how much our own economy can afford to give and how a maternity package is to be delivered.
in writing. − i am proud to have voted for the extension of maternity rights and condemn conservative and liberal democrat meps who first conspired to obstruct parliamentary agreement of this directive and today voted to deny decent rights to working women. i want to record the fact that i wished to vote for a different compromise on the length of the period for maternity pay but respect that this option fell because a majority in parliament supported 20 weeks. i recognise there will be a further negotiation on this point before the directive is finally agreed, and that it was vital for this parliament finally to agree a text to enable the process to move forward. i fully agree with my british labour colleagues who seek to protect low-paid women in particular and in this respect call on the british government to fully respect the non-regression clause in the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. as all eu citizens have the right to live and work throughout the eu, it is vital we afford woman a minimum entitlement to maternity leave wherever they are working at the time of having a baby. decent maternity leave is part of a wider issue of female participation in the labour market and tackling the financial implications of an ageing society. the eu goal is for 75% labour participation by 2020, and a crucial element of this will be giving all mothers the ability to take maternity leave which they can afford and then return to work. in an ageing society, where the demand for social care is increasing and the number of people providing the care is decreasing, more realistic leave such as maternity leave is needed. woman should not feel that having children is incompatible with their work – our policies need to enable care for younger and older persons. the implementation of this will not come into force for at least 5 years. furthermore, with an increase of just 1.04% of women's participation in the labour market, the additional cost of extending maternity leave would be covered.
in writing. − the eplp wholly supports the need to increase protection for women who are pregnant, have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, and therefore voted in favour of a number of the directive's key proposals. these include the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks, full payment for mothers for the first compulsory six weeks after childbirth, and two weeks fully paid paternity leave. however the eplp is concerned that the proposals adopted by parliament could have unintended consequences in countries which already employ a more complex set of maternity provisions. in particular, we are concerned that the proposals could allow a regressive government to cut its maternity provision so that the lowest paid working women could actually lose out over the period of their maternity leave. while some aspects of this report will form an invaluable improvement in member states with very low levels of maternity provision, these amendments may lead to social regression in other countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a legislative proposal guaranteeing enhanced and extended paternity/maternity pay in parliament today. i did so after lobbying from supporters and opponents. i am well aware of the financial conditions in the uk, which will be further worsened by recent budget announcements of more spending cuts. nevertheless, the european parliament was in favour of 20 weeks' maternity leave at full salary, and 2 weeks' paternity leave, and i believe that this is a sensible investment in the economy, helping reach the eu target of 75% labour participation by 2020. it improves the health of babies and protects the health and welfare of mothers. it is a step to close the existing gender pay gap. on average in the eu women earn 17% less than men. if we do not guarantee decent wages during maternity leave, women are punished in their earnings for having children. it is also a positive encouragement to increase fathers' involvement in caring for children. apart from death and taxes, birth is the only certainty in life. our children are the future and the improvements voted through today will provide a better and more secure start to their lives.
in writing. − in the current economic climate it is hard enough for small and medium businesses to survive without the added burden of late payments in commercial transactions. therefore, any mechanism that helps to protect these businesses from the added costs and financial implications surrounding late payment should be welcomed. however, i believe it is up to the british government to regulate on this issue, not the european union, to ensure firms and government bodies live up to their payment obligations. this report, while with merit, does require further clarification on certain aspects and therefore i have chosen to abstain on this vote at this time.
in writing. − despite efforts around the globe and commitments from many international institutions, the eu included, the fight against poverty is still far from won. the percentage of people living in poverty in europe increased from 16% to 17% between 2005 and 2008. across europe, there is consensus among governments and people alike that we must fight to eradicate poverty. as we consider the europe 2020 commitments, we must once again think about what measures can be taken to fight poverty. i support the figueiredo report, which calls for a re-evaluation of the eu’s commitments to fighting poverty and social exclusion and for the inclusion of challenging but achievable and clear objectives in the europe 2020 agenda. i echo the call of the european people to put an end to poverty and inequality through the implementation of effective, inclusive and forward-looking strategies that fight proactively against global poverty.
in writing. − recent years have shown how our economies are interdependent, and the problems that can be caused by lack of legislation regulation or cohesion of economies across europe. as we steer our way out of the crisis, we must look to european solutions that promise to build a stronger european economy and better-integrated financial systems that benefit the people of wales and the whole european union. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendations concerning the measures and initiatives to be taken following the financial, economic and social crisis as present in the berès report. we must look towards common solutions to europe’s problems, whilst respecting the choice of each eu member state by allowing them to decide how we progress. the council, commission and parliament must work together to ensure that we build a stronger, more robust, global economy that works for the european union as a whole.
in writing. − it is timely indeed that parliament addresses this matter only days after the agreement between president sarkozy and chancellor merkel to seek to change the lisbon treaty in order to provide for an orderly handling of future sovereign debt crisis in the euro zone. of course this is all set against the continuing crisis in the euro zone, as each day goes by evidencing the folly of the single currency model. but it does something else. clearly if this goes ahead there would be an onus on the coalition government in the uk to hold a referendum. that has been the assurance given by david cameron, and unlike his cast-iron guarantee of before, he must hold to this promise. if france and germany can seek changes to the lisbon treaty, it is vitally important that the uk government use the renegotiation process to win back powers to our sovereign parliament.
in writing. − the eu 2020 objectives re-establish the need for closer integration between member states' economies throughout the european union in order to encourage productivity, competitiveness and growth. the current economic crisis has demonstrated that the present economic governance model does not go far enough and cannot allow for progressive integration that will ensure the stability of eu economies. it is for that reason that i am voting to support the recommendations of the feio report, which highlights the need to strengthen eu economic provisions and to review and improve them in the longer term. i understand that europe needs to look critically at its current economic and financial stability plans in order to move forward together, towards a stronger, more closely intertwined economy that fulfils its potential as a global economic superpower.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, we must look at how the financing instruments – the dci, the stability instruments and the human rights instruments – are important for the soft power that the european union exercises around the world. that soft power is growing, as demonstrated by our election monitoring, observation, democracy campaigns, and so on. parliament gave up 16 scrutiny instruments when it created the dci. we had 16 core-decision powers which we gave up to the commission in order to control the dci instrument and facilitate greater cooperation. this is working well. now we have a stability instrument for post-crisis development. it needs to be fortified with a substantial amount of money, as there are many civil crises, civilian crises and military crises around the world. there are currently 36 civil conflicts. in the same manner, i think the human rights instrument needs to have oomph. it is just not good enough for us to talk and talk and talk: we need to have people on the ground, instruments for monitoring elections, good governance and all the other things for which we require funds. i am very pleased to support this.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the eu is the world’s largest multilateral donor of development aid and humanitarian assistance. it also plays an important political role supporting the promotion of human rights and democracy in third countries. my group, the ecr group, strongly believes that properly structured new eu financial instruments are therefore essential. they ensure a more efficient and effective way of disbursing eu taxpayers’ money and enable parliament, particularly post-lisbon, to scrutinise spending and strategic policy in a more open and transparent manner. this democratic accountability is vital, especially at a time when member states are themselves making severe cuts to their national expenditures. investment and development, democracy and human rights are potentially an important way to support, through soft power in particular, the eu’s wider foreign policy goals and could also contribute to reducing inward migratory pressures on the eu’s external borders. strong mechanisms to prevent corruption and misuse of eu money are, however, fundamental and we should also be careful not to force our own western liberal values, in particular so-called reproductory rights, onto others ill-equipped or reluctant to absorb them under the guise of human rights.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, there is an anecdote going around the bazaars of karachi roughly as follows. a thief holds up the president of pakistan and says: i want your money. the president of pakistan says: i am president zardari, your president. the thief says: in that case i want my money! this is relevant to the debate today because it emphasises the key point. the european commission has no money. all the commission’s money comes from the taxpayers of the member states or, to be precise, the taxpayers of the 14 member states which are net contributors. even if the commission gets its own resources some time, which on the basis of the votes earlier today looks depressingly likely, the money spent by the commission would still be money from taxpayers. i therefore leave you and ask you to consider very carefully this question: can you really suppose that hard-pressed european taxpayers and uk taxpayers, especially in today’s environment, really want an extra eur 2 billion to be spent – because that is what these proposals provide for – just so that the eu commissioner can strut about on the world stage?
mr president, as is so often the case with eu proposals, these financial instruments include measures which have great emotional appeal. all decent people like us want to stop drug smuggling, people-trafficking and the supply of small arms to conflict zones, but it is very easy to be emotional and generous with other people’s money. thus, while ordinary people in greece, france, ireland and great britain are having their societies ripped apart by cuts and their backs broken by taxes, the schulz report will add eur 176 million to the eur 172 million already committed to help third-world capitalists gobble up even more of our jobs. the goerens report will blow eur 190 million, including eur 17.4 million for a facility for rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries. it may have escaped your attention, but food prices are soaring in our constituencies as well. worst of all, however, is the brantner report. here on page nine it speaks of a financial envelope of eur 2 062 billion by 2013. this is, of course, a misprint. i hope to god it is a misprint, but the fact that such a ridiculous error could slip past all the experts and meps who have read this report speaks volumes for the careless abandon with which the european union spends money. this money does not grow on trees. it is not handed out by a giant tooth fairy. it is not the commission’s money; it is not meps’ money. it is taxpayers’ money and a hugely disproportionate amount of it is british taxpayers’ money.
mr president, i welcome this mid-term review of the european initiative on democracy and human rights (eidhr), commend the work of the rapporteur and welcome the changes allowing tax payments to be made. two-thirds of human rights organisations have been unable to obtain local exemptions, so this loophole which has diminished the real needs of the projects will now be filled. to the commission, i welcome the structured cooperation which has allowed parliament to be consulted on your annual programmes, and i support the further amendments today on delegated acts. i also remind you of the need to integrate the findings of the electoral observation missions into follow-up in the country. and, to the member states, i remind you that when it comes to the next financial perspective, do not be tempted to cut the eidhr. it has been tried before and failed, and this parliament would ensure it would fail again.
mr president, giving money from one’s own pockets is an act of generosity. giving money out of other peoples’ pockets, those of the taxpayer, is both less generous and less honest. the additional eur 176 million will not just be given to the poorest countries, but also to emergent countries whose exports are already and increasingly destroying our manufacturing bases and the jobs of our taxpayers. a desire on the part of the eu to promote democracy and human rights in the third world might be admirable, if it were not for the fact that european union countries can, and do, imprison people who have committed neither acts of violence nor theft, but simply expressed heretical or dissenting opinions on political or academic subjects. european union countries can, and do, ban political parties openly, as in belgium and germany, or by the back door by civil action, as in the united kingdom. if we wish to spread democracy and human rights worldwide, we would do so more effectively and more cheaply by setting a good example.
mr president, ukraine is our major european democratic associative partner and i too hope that one day it will become a member of the european union. like many speakers, i have some doubts as to the appropriateness of an ep resolution shortly before their local elections, and my group, the ecr group, has submitted a number of amendments to make the resolution more balanced and less repetitive. yanukovych won the election to become president democratically, albeit by a small margin. there are indeed some worrying authoritarian trends in kiev, from attempts to re-establish the temniki censorship of press freedom to the use of the fbu security service, led by an oligarch for political purposes. however, the west is watching the process closely. president yanukovych is now under pressure. the legacy of the orange revolution is still strong and the ukrainian civil society that emerged from it very robust. everyone knows that i have close relations with the opposition’s leading figures, but i too think we should avoid too much interference in ukrainian internal domestic and political affairs which may well backfire on this parliament and we should give the ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the next item is question time (b7-0552/2010). the following questions are addressed to the council.
question 2 by gay mitchell (h-0456/10) subject: epilepsy treatment in august 2010 i attended the european conference on epilepsy and society in porto, where the global campaign against epilepsy launched its report entitled 'epilepsy in the world health organisation european region'. according to the report, epilepsy surgery programmes are non-existent in 58% of european countries, yet 6 million europeans suffer from the illness, generating costs of €20 billion per year. is it not time for the eu member states to adopt a common and consistent approach to the treatment of this illness?
question 3 by seán kelly (h-0457/10) subject: coordination of the eu's position in cancun ahead of the 2010 united nations climate change conference in cancun, what concrete measures is the council taking to coordinate the eu's position at the negotiations, with the emphasis on the whole eu speaking with one voice?
question 4 by georgios papanikolaou (h-0460/10) subject: programme of the presidency - early school leaving the chapter of the belgian presidency's programme entitled 'education, training, youth, sport, culture and audiovisual policy' states that the presidency will pay particular attention to the problems associated with the failure to complete schooling, as well as to the role of education and training in social inclusion. what initiatives exactly has the presidency taken so far to achieve the above commitments and what timetable does it intend to follow through to the end of the year? does the council have any data providing evidence that the current economic situation is exacerbating the problem of early school leaving in the member states which are affected by it?
question 5 by jim higgins (h-0465/10) subject: eu goal of total elimination of landmines what steps does the council intend to take to counter the devastating consequences of landmines? a number of countries continue to use apls and some are also believed to continue to produce landmines – approximately 65 countries remain affected to some degree by mines and uxo. global estimates of new landmine casualties each year vary between 15 000 and 20 000 people, many of whom are civilians, including children. the eu has been very vocal about its wish to eliminate landmines and their use and stockpiling, but as yet an ambitious plan of action with deadlines has not been forthcoming, yet alone been implemented.
question 6 by vilija blinkeviciute (h-0468/10) subject: creation of an observatory on violence against women the council conclusions on the eradication of violence against women adopted on 8 march 2010 call for the establishment of a european observatory on violence against women, building on existing institutional structures, in order to collect high quality statistical data for use as a basis for the policies to be introduced. there is no place in a civilised society for violence against women, and it must be eradicated. there is a need to collect better quality statistics, improve the coordination of measures, exchange best practices and organise effective information campaigns on violence against women. when does the council intend to reach a decision on the establishment of this future observatory? what will be its objectives and missions and when will it become operational?
question 7 by josé manuel fernandes (h-0470/10) subject: bio-waste on 6 july 2010 parliament adopted, by a large majority, resolution p7_ta(2010)0264, on the commission's green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union, urging the commission to draw up a proposal for a specific directive on bio-waste by the end of 2010. during the subsequent exchange of views between the committee on the environment and the belgian minister joke schauvliege held on 14 july 2010, the latter, speaking on behalf of the belgian presidency, welcomed the resolution adopted by parliament and promised further action on the matter. now that we are halfway through the belgian presidency, can the council state what action it ends to take before the end of the presidency with a view to implementing the measure called for by parliament?
i have been relatively gentle with you all tonight because we have had a reasonable amount of time, but it is meant to be 30 seconds.
thank you, minister. my comments were not directed at you.
question 9 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0473/10) subject: council measures in favour of free movement of labour between member states the eu's new plan for the economy for the next ten years refers to workforce mobility as an essential condition for reducing unemployment. the unemployment rate has risen disturbingly with the crisis, from 6.8% in may 2008 to 10% in july 2010. meanwhile, according to a commission survey published on 13 july 2010, 48% of europeans would be willing to seek employment outside their country or region, rather than remain jobless. in addition, 17% said they expected to work abroad at some time in the future. it should also be remembered that member states are obliged to give preference to nationals of other member states over third-country workers. in the light of the above, can the council state what concrete measures it proposes with a view to the rapid elimination of the barriers now existing to the free movement of workers from those member states which joined the union after 1 may 2004?
just briefly, what steps is the council taking with respect to the movement of workers, or actually refugees, coming into the european union, getting papers and then moving to other countries within the european union, and also with respect to the safeguards under the 1951 convention which mean that they have to claim asylum in their first safe country? i am just wondering what steps the council has taken with respect to that.
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i understand what mr melo is saying but i cannot agree with it. i welcome the commission’s proposal to suspend import duties on key pakistan imports into the european union. firstly, the common ground between us is that pakistan, which has not had an easy history since its birth as a nation, is going through its worst possible period. it is in the frontline of the war against terrorism, costing it so far, it is reckoned, usd 40 billion. we are all very well aware of the floods, the combined impact of which is worse than the asian tsunami of 2004 and the haitian floods of earlier this year. that is a significant blow to any country. what i welcome about the commission proposal is that we give pakistan the opportunity to trade its way out of some of its difficulties. it is an intelligent proposal. firstly, as the commissioner has said, the 75 tariff lines that would help boost pakistan’s trade by an estimated eur 100 million a year do little harm to eu investment. this will not significantly damage any european union industry and, equally importantly – in fact quite possibly even more importantly – it will not harm the developing countries which are on a par with pakistan, because none of the tariff lines affect products on the dda preference erosion list. that is very positive. the second thing that is sensible about the commission proposal is that it is time-limited and does not unilaterally attempt to alter the gsp resolution. i welcome that because it still gives an incentive to pakistan to come into line with social and human rights standards between now and 2014 in order to qualify for gsp+ in 2014. so it gives the emergency aid we need now but, at the same time, does not give carte blanche to the pakistan government. it says ‘you have a duty yourself to put your country in order if you want to continue to qualify for these benefits’. this is a real test of europe’s generosity and i hope that we, in this parliament, will be prepared to meet it.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, in the past i have often been sharply critical of british prime minister cameron. however, prime minister cameron was absolutely correct to ask for trade preferences to be granted to pakistan. now i use the word ‘ask’ with some care. asking is exactly what the british prime minister has had to do. since joining the eu, the united kingdom, the world’s fifth largest economy, does not have the autonomy to determine trade policy even with a commonwealth country. nevertheless, it is in the uk’s national interest that pakistan should now get trade preferences. i rarely agree with david martin but i do on this. pakistan is not only a developing country with 170 million inhabitants and strategic borders with afghanistan; it is also a country which has some thirty nuclear warheads. the security implications of a collapse of the pakistan state would be devastating to the security of the entire developed world. trade preferences for pakistan at this time may perhaps help stop that happening.
madam president, may i firstly thank the commissioner and colleagues martin and caspary for their very helpful comments. following the floods which took place, i actually have travelled to pakistan to see for myself the extent of the devastation. the devastation caused by the floods is the biggest natural disaster in pakistan’s history. it is certainly beyond anything that i could have imagined or expected to see. certainly when i met with the prime minister of pakistan on 22 september he was very appreciative of the eu’s response to date and he believed it to be a very courageous response; courageous in the way that commissioner de gucht has described it. we have to be absolutely sure that we continue to react in an appropriate way. the commission has now come forward with a legislative proposal to cut the tariff to zero on 75 tariff lines covering 27% of pakistan’s exports to the eu, which would boost pakistan’s exports by about eur 100 million a year. this really is now a test of the eu’s credibility. we must ensure that we translate the political agreement reached by eu leaders into action that will make a real difference and give the pakistani economy a lifeline at this desperate time of need. we are, after all, their largest trading partner. i hear the concerns made by colleagues in this chamber and it is only right that we are fair in our response; fair but ambitious. the trade concession to be offered to pakistan needs to represent a credible effort by the eu and bring about meaningful economic benefits to pakistan, whilst taking into account sensitivities of our own industries as well as other wto members – in particular those of least-developed countries. i believe through this proposal we are being ambitious, we are being courageous, but above all we are being fair to ourselves, as well as to the people of pakistan.
madam president, i just want to respond to some of the comments which have been made. what pakistan is trying to do at this point is actually to help itself out of the mess that it is in after the devastating floods. if the factories were in flood-hit areas they would not be able to produce, so it is not surprising that the factories concerned are not in flood-hit areas. the direct aid that could be put in is miniscule compared to what the need actually is. distribution of the income from the additional exports is important – we know that for infrastructure, for energy supplies, for schools, for roads, etc. – while there are indeed responsibilities that lie with the democratically elected government of pakistan in terms of its effectiveness, of income, of tax revenue and so on. people have also talked about the need for greater diversity. if pakistan had a greater diversity of industrial sectors, we would not be concentrating so much on textiles. i appeal to members to offer that country this opportunity to help itself out of this disaster.
madam president, i just wonder if the speaker appreciates that just this one time we are actually not discussing aid but are actually simply discussing trade preferences. this would give the opportunity for pakistan to earn its way out of its problems by its own efforts and volition. i wonder if the speaker appreciates that.
madam president, we live in challenging economic times and many small businesses feel burdened with eu red tape and its associated cost. i believe that first and foremost this house and the commission should be looking at ways to alleviate the financial burden of the red tape that we insist upon here. in respect of this proposal, we need to strike a balance between the opening-up of markets for european products and ensuring the quality and safety of imported products. i must say, however, that i do see merit in third-country labelling when it comes to food products. i know they are not covered by the scope of this proposal, but many of northern ireland’s farmers feel let down when they work hard to meet the requirements laid down by europe, and then have to compete with those who do not have to meet the same standards. i hope the commissioner will take note that those of us who represent rural and agricultural-based communities have not forgotten the resumption of talks with mercosur countries, and we hope that he is not prepared to sacrifice our agricultural industry for further markets. this place has a habit of taking legislation too far, and i fear that this is what is happening in this particular case.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think we should start off by welcoming some of these statements that were made this evening and the fact that, following the tokyo round, the commission released the text to the parliament, which will ultimately be in a position to give consent or not to these agreements. i think the move towards transparency is something which should be welcomed across the parliament. after all, that was one of the areas of consensus across the parliament – we may have disagreed on certain elements, but we agreed on more and more transparency. an increase in transparency means that we reduce false speculation about the content of the negotiations, but also, to be fair, highlights the positive role played by the commission in trying to persuade the negotiating partners of the need for greater transparency. i think we played a role in this parliament in putting pressure on the commission, so it in turn can talk to its negotiating partners about the need for greater transparency. there are obviously differences of opinion in this house on intellectual property rights. it is clearly a key issue for copyright and trademark holders. acta, i hope, is an important step in terms of enforcement among all active parties and builds on the trips agreement of the mid-1990s. personally, i think a distinction should be made between the digital world and the world of atoms; in a world of increased processing power, increased storage and increased bandwidth, you see a tendency towards a price of zero and many in the music industry, for example, have failed to react. i understand from speaking to legal experts, however, that it is very difficult to codify that in an agreement. when it comes to the production of generic medicines, i am glad that acta protects copyrights and trade marks while excluding patents from border measures, so you avoid the seizure of generic medicine in transit through the eu. but i do have a question since the commission was not responsible for negotiating on behalf of the eu when it came to the criminal enforcement chapter which was dealt with by the council on behalf of member states. how, when we have this debate about concerns over the criminal sanctions, do we intend to reconcile the two different negotiations between the civil and the criminal chapter? it is a question for you, mr commissioner. you can shrug, but it will be interesting to hear your perspective on this.
mr president, we as a union have been floundering in the dark in meeting the challenges that have been posed in this new internet age. of course we are not alone and many of our partner nations are in the same position, but we have all got to come together and work towards harmonisation of anti-counterfeiting enforcement. the protection of copyright is imperative, but a balance has to be struck to ensure that freedom of expression and innovation are not inhibited. we are keen to ensure that the balance reached in the gallo report is properly recognised in the agreement to encourage growth, competitiveness and innovation to flourish, whilst providing necessary protections for rights holders. there is no one-size-fits-all approach in the enforcement, or approach to enforcement, in the agreement. flexibility for our member states is recognised; we support that. acta, as the commissioner said, is a good first step to tackling counterfeit groups and piracy on the internet and wider afield. for the eu, we expect a detailed copyright proposal and a thorough impact assessment which the european parliament will review, analyse and scrutinise on behalf of our citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, eighteen months ago this house was shocked by the brutality of the events in chisinau. a few weeks later, we had the great pleasure of welcoming here in our gallery the leaders of the democratic political parties from that country, embarked on a new path. we shared the enthusiasm of moldova’s people for a new future. we have been pleased to note since then the progress that country has made. there is still much progress to be made – not least in bringing to justice the perpetrators of those brutal events – but, if moldova returns to office the current coalition in the elections next month, there is a good chance that, despite the difficulties of the economic recession, the country can complete its transformation. the british writer, francis bacon, observed that hope makes a very good breakfast but a rather poor supper. moldova’s governing parties should be in no doubt that implementation of reforms must follow the legal acts which permit such reforms. time is not on our side. there is much to be done very soon. my group commends commissioner füle and his services for the work they have done to assist moldova. we welcome the formation of the friends of moldova and the superb meeting of european countries which took place to help moldova to move forward. every effort is being made on the european union’s side to help this desperately poor country move towards european standards. i hope that when the council looks at the visa regime next week it will help us to find a way forward on the visa issue. as one of our founding fathers said, a country’s european vocation is determined not by the european union but by the european spirit of its people. we urge the people of moldova to show that european spirit in the elections next month.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, no one is disputing that moldova has a long way to go before it achieves its ultimate goal of joining the european union, which is a goal that my group, the ecr, supports. it remains one of europe’s poorest countries, despite being in the wto, and, as such, is vulnerable to organised crime, human trafficking and corruption. moldova remains hamstrung by the ongoing frozen conflict with the russian-speaking and politically russian- dominated breakaway region of transnistria. however, since the communists were ousted from power 15 months ago, moldova has begun to make substantial progress. the parties in the alliance for european integration, the current ruling coalition, have shown an impressive capacity to work together to accelerate moldova’s integration with the european union. for its part, the union should maintain pressure on the moldovan government for further progress in economic reforms and, in particular, improving the rule of law and good governance. but we should also reward and engage more with chisinau. the visa issue has been mentioned, but i would also like to raise the issue of euronest, which offers opportunities for eu and moldovan politicians alike to debate common interests. sadly, euronest – which was something which appeared in my report in the previous parliament – remains paralysed because of the dispute over belarus representation, as our parliament does not recognise its parliament, which was not democratically elected. i hope that one day all clearly european countries in the eastern partnership, namely moldova, ukraine and a future democratic belarus, will become eu candidates.
mr president, the number of natural recipients of eu funding is currently just under half the total membership. as we extend membership to more and more and even poorer eastern states, the proportion of net recipients will increase to perhaps two-thirds. this will self-evidently be at the expense of current net contributors, but it will also be at the expense of current members that are net recipients. easing visa restrictions, we are often told, has nothing to do with migration, by which they mean, of course, legal migration. it will have everything to do with illegal migration: the trafficking of people to work for less than the minimum wage and less than minimum working conditions. it will also deplete that country of people of working age who might bring the country out of poverty. lastly, i would say that moldova declared its independence in 1991 from the soviet union. does it really wish to surrender its independence to the eu, however much it might receive in pieces of silver?
author. − mr president, as you said, i speak this morning on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on an issue that has been overlooked for so long, namely containers falling from ships at sea. it is amazing to me that, in this modern day and age, thousands of these containers go missing each year, with the great majority of them falling off the ships into our oceans. it is estimated that a staggering 10 000 containers are lost at sea each year. it would appear to us that shipping lines and insurers are quite happy to accept this figure and do nothing about it. in european waters, 2 000 containers a year are lost at sea, and this figure would appear to be rising year on year. these containers are a menace to navigation, they could pollute the seas with both toxic and non-toxic materials, and they leave local authorities with large clean-up costs. the transport committee is now demanding action to reduce this figure and is sending a signal to the maritime industry that we are not prepared to tolerate this state of affairs much longer. the marin institute in the netherlands found the main reasons for container stack collapses were faulty lashings, overweight containers and faulty stowage. in addition, crews on larger container ships have difficulty in assessing when severe loads are moving forward and/or aft due to weather conditions, which can amplify vertical acceleration in these areas beyond the vessel’s actual design specifications. moreover, the absence of a strict liability compensation convention for non-toxic substances leaves local government picking up the cost of the clean-up. parliament is now demanding that shipping companies accept their responsibilities on this issue. we would like to see the commission becoming more proactive in solving this unacceptable state of affairs. today i am asking the commission to study the results obtained by the lashing@sea project and to come forward with proposals to improve container lashing procedures and equipment. secondly, we would like to see action to ensure that all containers are correctly weighed in port and correctly stowed before a ship sets sail for sea, as well as fitting automated beacons to aid container location. thirdly, we are asking the commission to look at the compensation regime so that local and regional authorities are not left short-changed. finally, i want to return to the obligations of the wider maritime industry to get their act together. i appreciate that containers will be lost in severe storms. what i cannot accept is that containers are lost due to shoddy workmanship, or to containers being overloaded or incorrectly stacked, or because of a laissez-faire attitude to this problem by the industry at large. containers falling off ships are dangerous. losing 20 000 of them a year is unacceptable. lives are being put at risk, which is why we are demanding action. the maritime industry seems unwilling to act. maybe we should.
author. − mr president, in short, i am disappointed with the commission’s response to our oral question. i appreciate that a world agreement would be ideal and i appreciate that we need to involve the imo, but the imo has got to be one of the slowest international organisations the world has ever come across. it works at the pace of a tortoise, and we want action now. commissioner, if i drop 2 000 heavy metal boxes into the sea, deliberately, with a load of materials in, then i would be prosecuted. yet we allow this to happen every year in eu waters. i make a plea: you cannot play pontius pilot with this and wash your hands of the problem. it is a problem that is increasing. it is a serious problem and it is a problem that you have to address. it is not a problem you can hide behind, saying ‘well, we need to assess this’ and ‘we need to assess that’, or whatever. you have heard what the members have said. please now get on with trying to sort it out.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of the verts/ale group i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs meissner, for drawing together this report and developing it alongside the other political groups. as 71% of the earth’s surface is covered with water, it really does make sense to try and develop an integrated maritime policy. europe, of course, has 305 000 kilometres of coastline. that was the commission’s intent back in 2009 when it announced a more horizontal policy approach on areas such as maritime transport, the marine environment and regional and fisheries policies. today we see the response of the committee on transport and tourism to this fresh direction, in the shape of mrs meissner’s report. we will be supporting this report. it is a useful step in the right direction towards caring for, and sustainable use of, our maritime resource. however, we believe there is still much work to be done. we welcome the report’s suggestions on maritime governance, on sea basin initiatives and strategies, on maritime spatial planning and surveillance, a maritime research framework and observation and data network, and a fund for maritime infrastructure. i am particularly pleased that the report now includes the integration of carbon emission reduction targets and support for renewable solar and wind energies on board vessels. when it comes to the votes later on today, i would particularly like to ask members to support the rapporteur’s amendment which seeks to include the option of including emission trading schemes in the eu and imo rules. this was an issue over which the committee on transport was evenly split, with 20 votes each side, so it is perfectly right that mrs meissner has brought it here today for plenary to vote on. i would ask members to show some ‘20-20 vision’ and vote for the rapporteur’s amendment, which recognises that these measures sit squarely alongside our wider strategic objectives around co2 reduction and the europe 2020 project.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the development of an integrated maritime policy that enshrines and enhances the principles of subsidiarity, competitiveness and the sustainable use of marine resources. i do not, however, support the resurrection of the concept of a european coastguard. this was rejected once before. i do not believe it is necessary. i believe it is far too expensive at a time of financial stringency. i also believe that a directive on maritime spatial planning would be an unnecessary luxury which would not, in my view, add value to the current process of cooperation between member states. can i also mention in this context the impact of offshore wind, wave and tidal energy projects, together with the designation of marine protected areas (mpas), on inshore and artisanal fisheries? we cannot simply draw lines on maps designating vast areas of inshore waters as mpas or for renewable energy. small-scale fishermen cannot be arbitrarily displaced without full consultation. the designation of such areas must be a bottom-up and not a top-down process, and it must involve stakeholder consultation.
mr president, before taking advice from any expert it is wise to examine their record to check that they are competent. the integrated maritime policy report is partly the work of the committee on fisheries, so before buying into its grand schemes it is worthwhile taking a critical look at the european union’s record on the management of the seas. inevitably, this means assessing the situation in the former sovereign uk waters, secretly betrayed to european bureaucracy control in 1973, since nearly 70% of so-called ‘eu fishing stocks’ are actually british fishing stocks. how have our fish and our fishermen fared under the common fisheries policy (cfp)? the figures tell us far more than all the fine words in this report. 88% of the eu’s stocks are overfished, against a global average of about 27%. 30% of our fish species are now officially outside safe biological limits, because there are too few adult fish left for normal reproduction. under the cfp’s obscene quota system, nearly a million tonnes of fish are discarded dead into the north sea alone every year. meanwhile, the industrial hoovering-up of species such as sand eels has led to crashing populations of bird species such as puffins. to europe’s south, the picture is just as bad. west african fishermen, whose lifestyle had been sustained for generations, are being forced to switch to people trafficking because eu-registered vessels have helped fish their waters to extinction. it is time for the eu to acknowledge that its record in maritime management is the worst in the entire world, a typical example of what is known as the tragedy of the commons – the phenomenon by which shared resources always get exploited ruthlessly, because anyone who exercises restraint is disadvantaged by the unscrupulous. it is time to restore control of the seas and fishing grounds to the sovereign nations, whose track record has shown them fit to exercise such stewardship. in the case of the two-thirds of eu waters that the eu has fished to extinction, that means the british nation and british fishermen.
mr president, it should not surprise anybody that the eu wants to integrate maritime policy, just as it intends to integrate everything else across europe in every aspect of life and public policy. i enquired in 2007 of the uk marine and fisheries agency how many fish were being caught in british waters. i was told ‘we cannot identify uk waters. they are now identified as being part of ec waters’. so the uk no longer has its own territorial waters. perhaps it is apt to be discussing this today because, as i am sure you will all be aware, it is the 205th anniversary of the battle of trafalgar on 21 october 1805 when admiral lord nelson and many other brave men gave their lives and died so that britain could remain a free and independent country. his dying words were ‘thank god, i have done my duty’. ukip meps will do their duty this afternoon and vote against this.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
that is clearly rejected. it was very clear, colleagues. – before the vote on amendment 19:
no, it was clear and i am not going back now.
thank you, mr swoboda. i will take another speaker in favour if there is a speaker in favour.
thank you, mr kamiński. i think i have a speaker against in mr gahler. is that correct?
i now put to the vote mr swoboda’s proposition that the vote should be delayed.
it seems to be to brussels: is everyone clear that the proposition is to refer it to brussels? on that basis, i put the proposition to the vote. (parliament approved the request to postpone the vote)
are there any objections? it seems not to be the case so we will proceed with the vote on amendment 1 by roll-call vote.
mr president, if any of our constituents felt a ‘twitch in the force’ yesterday afternoon, it was because of the extraordinary coincidence of timing that, at the very moment when the british chancellor of the exchequer was on his feet in the house of commons announcing the most severe spending reductions that my country has known since the 1920s, we in this chamber were voting through increases in the european budget which will cost the united kingdom taxpayer gbp 880 million. that is not our share of the budget. that is our share of the increase. since we announced yesterday 490 000 job losses in the public sector, it is perhaps worth quantifying that sum in terms of public sector appointments. it would have paid for 15 000 national health service doctors, for 30 000 nurses, for 35 000 police officers or for 50 000 army privates. it is not just britain. all of our member states are looking to make reductions in their national budgets and yet the european union budget keeps expanding, soaking up their savings. if only the hunger of this chamber for new powers were matched by its interest in exercising properly the powers it already has – above all to hold the executive to account and to keep spending under control. our voters deserve better of us.
author. − mr president, time and time again this house has passed resolutions condemning the tragedy that is zimbabwe. time and time again, mr mugabe has ignored us and carried on as if we do not exist and our opinions do not matter. there is something we can do immediately to tell mr mugabe that our opinions do matter. that is, we should not accept the credentials of mrs margaret muchada, who has been nominated unilaterally by mr mugabe, in direct violation of the zimbabwean constitution, as the zimbabwean ambassador to the eu. my colleague, geoffrey van orden, has written to mr barroso and mr van rompuy about this matter. if we have any teeth, we should show mr mugabe, who he has ridden roughshod over us, that we do matter and require this lady, his ambassador, to go back.
mr president, i was not going to speak but unfortunately my colleague, geoffrey van orden, cannot be with us this week. he has a long history of criticising the odious and brutal regime of president robert mugabe. i think, sadly, the only way we will see the end to the zanu-pf mugabe dictatorship is when he is actually taken out in a coffin. i had hoped that there would have been a chance of reconciliation and peace and a transition towards true democracy a few years ago when morgan tsvangirai became prime minister in a power-sharing brokered deal, but it would appear that mugabe has been able to reassert his absolute grip on power and revert to the kind of behaviour for which he is only too well known – namely violence, eviction and repression. ultimately it is the poor zimbabweans who suffer in that now almost broken economy. if it were not for the lifeline extended to zimbabwe as a result of governments like the people’s republic of china giving them handouts, and money coming from libya and others, it would not survive. recently i have to say i was disappointed by the visit of president zuma, who came to this parliament. he came here asking the european union to lift their sanctions on zimbabwe because of the refugees flowing into south africa. i am afraid we must tell mr zuma that is just not possible. we have to send a strong signal of disapproval about the way in which mugabe treats his own people. i would like to endorse the comments made by my colleague, nirj deva, before me that one gesture would be to refuse the accreditation of the newly-appointed ambassador of zimbabwe to the european union.
author. − mr president, although cambodia is on paper a pluralist democracy, the respected ngo human rights watch states that politicians and journalists critical of the government face violence and intimidation. in addition, the judiciary remains weak and subject to political influence. furthermore the government continues to turn a blind eye to fraudulent confiscation of farmers’ land, illegal logging and widespread plundering of the country’s natural resources. sam rainsy, the opposition leader currently exiled to france, has been jailed in absentia for ten years. his so-called crime was to seek to highlight the confiscation of peasant farmers’ land by the government following border talks with neighbouring vietnam, in the course of which he was charged with digging up the border posts. this resolution today serves as a timely reminder to the cambodian government that if it seeks closer ties with the eu it should guarantee and uphold basic freedoms and fundamental rights. otherwise, cambodia risks being bracketed with the pariah state burma in the eyes of the international community.
mr president, our group opposes the postponement of the vote on the closure of the cepol accounts, because this institution has had discharge refused due to irregularities. we think that decisions need to be made urgently, so we cannot postpone the vote.
mr president, i am not going to speak for very long. the eu has a very long and undistinguished record as far as its accounting procedures are concerned. i understand that the court of auditors has declined to sign off the budget for the 14th time running. the entity which is being discussed now has a similar – and, if possible, even less distinguished – record. it is important that this matter be addressed by the european parliament forthwith if the european parliament is to have any credibility at all in these matters.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the transatlantic relationship is europe’s most important. not only do we still account for half of the global economy, but our democracies are the key drivers of the maintenance of human rights and the rule of law. however, we sometimes seem to either take each other for granted or let our family squabbles obscure our overriding common interests. that is why our joint resolution insists on the importance of a strategic partnership, one which stresses coordination and cooperation in meeting global challenges and regional issues and in which legislators are full and serious players. that strategic partnership must be rooted in economic and political freedom. i am pleased that meps are reiterating our insistence on the aim of a free transatlantic market by 2015. that means gearing up our ambitions for the removal of trade and regulatory barriers. a very large – and growing – part of the transatlantic relationship is about issues of justice, law enforcement and human rights. it used to be ad hoc, now it is really one of the core elements. the more we anchor our partnership in shared respect for our common values, the more strongly we can act to resonate those values in the wider world. in that context, the renewed justification by former president george bush of water boarding – which is unequivocally torture – sums up everything that went wrong in the disastrous eight years of his presidency and that made the west both less free and less secure. the emerging, widespread evidence of apparent mistreatment of iraqi detainees by uk and us troops demands examination at the highest level, including at the forthcoming summit and in independent inquiries. i was very pleased to hear vice-president reding on the data protection agreement. it really is vital to have this ‘umbrella agreement’, as she called it, because at the moment we are fire-fighting on each individual data-sharing agreement. if we could just have a settlement, a framework in which individual data-sharing requests can be examined, that would be extremely valuable because so much of our attention and squabbles have focused on that subject. it is a great prize worth a lot of effort.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, no bilateral relationship is more important to us than that with the united states. we face an uncertain century ahead, which will be characterised by a fundamental shift in the global economic balance of power away from the liberal democracies of europe and north america to states which do not all share, as yet, our commitments to the rule of law, democracy and human rights. as long as i hold my position in this house i will of course fight for unity between the north atlantic democracies in promoting a common vision for the future. for example, in pursuing our shared goals for security, we should seek the maximum cooperation to avoid unnecessary difficulty. i therefore applaud the work that is being done on the data protection framework and the pnr agreements, but i would urge caution when considering the potentially serious consequences of retrospectively applying new legislation to existing legal judgments, both here and in the united states. we must also recognise that the eu does not have legal competence over national governments’ own negotiations with third parties. i very much hope that on this, as on so many issues of common concern, we can find a practical and acceptable solution.
mr president, i was in the united states during the mid-term elections and saw something of the political earthquake that took place there. there are lessons for europeans in this, both in our home countries and in the european union. citizens both in the united states and here want less government intrusion in their lives, control of the deficit and cuts in public expenditure, and for us that should mean a smaller eu budget. turning to defence matters, the recent uk strategic defence and security review reminds us that britain’s pre-eminent defence and security relationship is with the united states. that should apply to all other european countries. i very much hope that nato’s new strategic concept will demonstrate a revitalised commitment to the alliance which binds the united states to europe’s security. we must not allow the distraction of eu defence ambitions to dilute or undermine this. we cannot afford duplication and distraction, particularly at a time when defence budgets are being slashed. the forthcoming nato summit on 19 november presents a good opportunity for the 21 nato allies that are also eu member states to demonstrate their commitment to the new realities.
mr president, on the agenda of the tec meeting in december will be removing trade barriers, which is a sacred aim among globalists that owes more to faith than to reason. economic theory never tires of telling us that international trade makes the world as a whole richer. it is more reticent about telling us whether or not everybody in every country benefits. the problems that the developed world faces are not too many trade barriers, but too few. that is, too few barriers against products from emerging countries such as china, with its low wage rates, grossly undervalued currency and its artificially impoverished home market. this means that chinese goods, which are already low-priced because of low wages, become artificially lower still because of the low value of its currency. the impoverished home market means that there is negligible demand for consumer imports and even insufficient demand for chinese goods, making china completely dependent on its export trade. europe responds to this threat by saying it will become more competitive, perhaps by research and development. this might be a possibility if china respected international intellectual property rights. however, as soon as a novel improvement is developed in the west, china quite ruthlessly and without any shame copies the product and produces it at a fraction of the price. on the agenda of the eu-us summit will be increasing jobs on both sides of the atlantic. some hope of that if we continue to embrace globalism.
mr president, i am very pleased that i caught your eye because i particularly want to thank commissioner de gucht for what i thought was a very important reorientation of the transatlantic economic council. i was in washington in july on a mission as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i visited him afterwards to say that we needed to lift the sights of this economic council to look at the long range strategic technological issues that we are both working on, and particularly to work around the basis of standards which my committee has been doing a lot of work on over the last few months. what we should be doing is creating the common standards for future technologies, not creating new trade barriers by working independently. as he said in his statement, it will help us to harness common research programmes, common opportunities for business, and strengthen our competitiveness with our partners in the united states. i think that this element of your announcement today is very important. i am sorry that so few of my colleagues have talked about it – i know that ms herczog did – but i hope that we can work together to take this forward. i am disappointed that elmar brok has gone because i want to say to him that this new orientation means we will need new people to work in his transatlantic legislators’ dialogue because we have new challenges to meet.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, pnr is, as has been acknowledged, an important tool for national security. it is a key component in the battle to keep us safe, not just in the air, but on the ground. however, pnr must only be a tool to combat terrorism. it must not become a free licence for the retention of data by governments or their agencies. therefore we must deeply consider who we allow access to this data and why; not just to which country but which agencies. what benefits will there be to us from their access to it? how will it be protected by them and, importantly, how can we be assured that it remains so? we must also be certain that all arrangements with third countries are mutual so that we too can benefit. pnr is an important weapon in ensuring we protect ourselves against such terrorism, but it is not the only weapon: pragmatism and proportionality should be key to every decision we make in this house; the subject of passenger name records is no different.
madam president, i am not of course in favour of the european union assuming the right to conclude treaties at all. however, i will endeavour to look objectively at the principles governing treaties about pnr. the approach taken to weigh the two sometimes contradictory needs of privacy and security is essentially sound. people have a right to keep details of their lives confidential, but authorities have not only a right, but a duty, to safeguard the lives of their peoples. if only terrorists and serious criminals wore black hats and displayed sinister sneers, those two needs could be satisfied simultaneously. however, the union does allow its own ideological inhibitions to get in the way of achieving the right balance. i can understand its reluctance to reveal unnecessarily information about people’s origins or opinions. where this has no connection or even correlation with terrorism, that inhibition is a healthy one. however, in an era in which a particular section of the population is disproportionately involved in terrorism – and that section might change – i see no objection against profiling of that population.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 11 november 2010 at 12.00. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on alternative investment fund managers and amending directives 2004/39/ec and 2009/…/ec (com(2009)0207 – c7-0040/2009 – 2009/0064(cod)) (a7-0171/2010).
mr gauzès, you can have as long as you like if you protect the interests of the city of london.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i start by praising the hard efforts of commissioner michel barnier? thank you very much for coming to london to meet with hedge funds and private equity managers and hear their concerns. i would also like to thank the belgian presidency for their work, as some of my previous colleagues have said, and also mr gauzès and the other shadow rapporteurs. i shall not thank any more people because i will run out of time, given that i have only got one minute. i think it is very important that we look at the issues and see how far we have come in eighteen months. i was one of the most critical people when it came to the original draft. especially when it came to issues such as the scope, it seemed to be a one-size-fits-all directive, with the same rules for all sorts of funds – not just hedge funds and private equity but also investment trusts in the uk, which have existed for 150 years with no systemic risk. we are in a better place there. i am very happy with where we have come on third country access: we have managed to keep markets open and to allow eu investors to continue to invest in non-eu funds. we have a level of transparency that does not put private equity at a significant disadvantage compared to sovereign wealth funds, and we have come to a better place on depository liability, where we are not concentrating systemic risk. all in all, no one would say it is a perfect directive, but i think we have achieved a workable compromise. i hope that the majority of parliament will support mr gauzès, the rapporteur, and the other shadow rapporteurs in the work we have done.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i am less grateful than the previous speakers. from the very beginning, the aifm directive targeted the city of london, an industry that was already sufficiently regulated by the british authorities. as usual, the eu misses the point: it is the banks’ reckless lending that caused an almighty credit bubble and the financial crisis, not alternative investment funds. will this regulation prevent a further crisis? absolutely not. but it will certainly succeed in driving managers away from london. sadly, they will not go to paris or frankfurt, but instead further afield: to new york and singapore. are we in a position to afford such loss of business? of course not, but the eu does not care. this directive will significantly add to the cost of these funds and reduce returns, driving smaller funds out of business. its capital requirements will make it difficult for private equity funds, and it is venture capital start-ups that will suffer the consequences. funnily enough, the commission claims it wants to encourage research, development and entrepreneurship, in order to restore growth to the european economy. instead of encouraging venture capital, they are putting their trust in public funding which is too cumbersome and useless for this purpose. it is also incredible to see how the eu has designed this directive from its ivory tower, turning deaf ears to regulatory developments in the rest of the world and adopting a protectionist and arrogant method, whereby the european securities and markets authority will have the last word on who does business in europe and where european funds invest. but where is mr cameron in all this? he has betrayed the city of london – the most important british industry. he has allowed yet another transfer of power to brussels without giving the british people a referendum. on behalf of british alternative fund managers, i can only say thank you very much, mr cameron. don’t come to us to help reactivate the british economy!
mr president, there have been long and difficult discussions on this directive in committee, in trialogues and variously in member states, with the media, with venture capitalists and with fund managers of all types. interestingly, the member states that were most concerned about hedge fund activity were also those that did not have any regulation of hedge fund managers nor conduct-of-business rules to stop the selling to retail investors of some products only appropriate for professional investors. similarly, the member states most worried about asset stripping and hidden takeovers were ones without lower disclosure thresholds on shareholding and without disclosure of contracts for difference. now, wherever you are in the eu, there will be protection – and that is right. in the supervisory architecture we have taken a big step towards a common rule book. the lesson of aifm is that we must also take steps to early sharing of best practice. so i say to the city, to my own member state, the uk: be vigilant when promoting the export to europe of a full range of market regulation with which you already comply. the end-product may not be exactly the same and therefore you will have to adjust, and i am afraid that does entail some cost. but sharing this best practice, exporting ideas early, is the way to avoid the trauma of legislation at a late stage. that said, the end result that we have is an open and reasonably balanced one. it is not divergent from company law norms. it is not perfect, and it is certainly not as succinct as i would like but, given all the circumstances, i endorse it as a good result. i should like to thank personally minister reynders and commissioner barnier for their very important and active engagement in the trialogues.
mr president, the aifm directive was the very first piece of legislation that passed my desk after i was elected for the first time eighteen months ago, so to see it finally go through plenary this week, now that we have finally reached an agreement, is actually a relief. the putting in place of a passport regime for alternative investment funds, to operate across the entire eu alongside a single rule book governing their operations, should be another valuable piece in the creation of a true single market in financial services for europe and should be welcomed by the industry in its current modified form. as a former uk regulated fund manager, i now hope that this will soon become the mark of high quality in regulation for investors worldwide, as ucits has been in the past and continues to be across the globe. however, i hope that everyone who has been involved in this process has learnt some lessons along the way concerning the principles of better regulation. it is clear that this should not be held up as an example of better regulation and, given the extensive agenda of financial legislation over the coming months, i hope we can avoid a repetition of this inefficient process.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i think it is important to reflect that the idea of having an ambitious programme to deal with the completion of the single market – or our moves towards completion because i think that it is a job which will never ever be complete – was not in the eu 2020 strategy. nor, indeed, was it in your programme when you came here for your hearing last year. i think it is a reflection of the political impetus behind the need to complete the single market and to raise its profile which was generated by president barroso’s decision to ask mario monti to look at it, and to ask our committee, under the leadership of louis grech, to look at it at the same time. we are really pleased that you have taken the initiative to move it forward. you got a flavour of some of the debates to come. i think we should reflect on this as an apt opportunity to deal with what europe desperately needs: economic growth, jobs, a dynamic small enterprise sector, more innovation, more efficient public procurement – those are the things that our citizens will judge us by. if we get more of them back to work and more companies started, that is the biggest single social achievement that we will make with this act.
mr president, last year’s mission letter from president barroso to professor monti asked him to take ‘a fresh look at how the market and social dimensions of an integrated european economy can be mutually strengthened’. in his turn, in the report professor monti launched a strong appeal for political consensus, saying that ‘consensus building […] will thus be a crucial component of a new strategy for the single market. the effort to generate consensus will have to show full awareness of the main concerns surrounding the single market today’. for us, achieving that consensus requires a new balance between the social and economic pillars of the internal market strategy. now i know, commissioner barnier, that you indeed realise that and i commend you for your personal efforts to bring about that balanced consensus. but sadly others in the college did not share that realisation and so, while there are good elements in this communication, as my colleagues have said, we do not think that at the moment it forms the basis for that consensus. i hope our groups in this house can work together effectively to try to strike the correct balance and achieve that consensus and i hope that, at the end of the consultation period, the college of the commission will take note of that and produce a balanced consensual package. i would dearly like, commissioner, to see the track-changes text in relation to proposals 29 and 30; it would be intriguing, i think, to see who is responsible for the changes and the very special language used there. some members have referred to the social clause, proposal 29, and i think that proposal 30 is very important. i note there the reference to the need for ‘a legislative proposal which is likely to include or be supplemented by a clarification of the exercise of fundamental rights in the context of the economic freedoms of the internal market’. one way of reading that, commissioner, is that it is referring to what has come to be termed the monti ii regulation. i hope that this is the case because it would directly address our concern about the social clause. we will work with you in the coming months on this.
mr president, of the commission’s 50 targets in the single market act communication, i counted 13 which concern my work in the parliament’s econ committee, but all 50 concern my constituency and the people i was elected to represent. fundamentally, many of these eu projects if done well will be hugely positive for all of my constituents in wales. specifically, smes are crucial to the welsh economy and to europe as a whole. therefore i welcome the proposals with regard both to accessing finance via the capital markets and to ensuring that the venture capital funds set up in any member state can operate and invest freely in the companies in the eu. mario monti was clear in his recent work that the single market had stalled. we need to reenergise the process and in that way remind our constituents that the eu does not just bring regulation and red tape at a huge cost, but should, and can actually bring tangible benefits for businesses and trade as well as consumers and individuals. this is where the real added value of the eu lies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the osce plays an important and growing role in promoting peace and stability on our continent of europe. the fact that america, canada, russia and many central asian countries are also full members gives the organisation great credibility and breadth – ‘from vancouver to vladivostok’, as the osce itself boasts. the osce is rapidly usurping the council of europe as the principal and most relevant forum for discussing democracy – with its odihr branch supporting election monitoring – human rights and the rule of law in europe. the osce’s field missions in countries like georgia and moldova are contributing significantly to stabilising societies traumatised by recent disputes and frozen conflicts. kazakhstan’s current chairmanship of the osce has helped to enhance the organisation’s profile and refocus our attention on central asia, and in particular on the issue of security and the fight against international terrorism. undoubtedly, there are many possibilities for developing the eu’s relationship with the osce. however, in fashioning this partnership i hope the high representative will give due weight to avoiding duplication of effort and thereby the wasting of taxpayers’ money at a time of austerity. she should also consider coordinating the osce, the eu and particularly the csdp and nato within the partnership for peace. lastly, i would suggest that perhaps the two organisations – the council of europe and the osce – consider amalgamation. that might save a lot of money.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner malmström was, of course, herself a good friend of taiwan in her mep days. i am now the president of the taiwanese friendship group in this parliament. i am, of course, delighted on behalf of our group to welcome the fact that taiwanese citizens will soon be able to enter the schengen zone without needing a visa – also known in eu jargon terms as a visa liberalisation for taiwan. my country, the uk, and ireland – both of which are of course outside schengen – gave taiwanese citizens visa-free privileges a year and a half ago. i can safely say that our experience in britain, particularly in terms of boosting tourism and bone fide business travel since then, fully indicates that this decision was a good one. taiwan is a thriving, wealthy and modern democracy that shares our values of supporting human rights, peace, security and prosperity in the region. we can only benefit from facilitating closer business ties with taiwan, whose economy is growing again and going from strength to strength, and is increasingly a springboard for european investments into china. europe, of course, is also rapidly catching up with america as a destination of choice for taiwanese university students and graduates wanting to do research. again, the benefits of these exchanges are substantial in every possible sense. this is an important sign of our support and solidarity with taiwan which, under president ma’s inspired leadership, has sought pragmatic solutions to the international isolation imposed on it by the people’s republic of china.
mr president, last month in strasbourg this parliament voted through a 5.9% increase in the eu budget. this included an extra eur 2 million for entertainment to support the champagne lifestyle to which this place has become accustomed. i found the way in which colleagues applauded themselves to be offensive within the context of an economic crisis. today, the victims of this crisis from my constituency in britain’s west midlands are making a stand. students and university lecturers have taken their concerns to the streets of london, and whilst i deplore the actions of a few, i applaud the many. students will be hard hit by the austerity package: tuition fees in universities are set to triple, courses have been scrapped, places have been cut and infrastructure will be put under more and more pressure. tomorrow’s talent, which we rely on for our future, is being stifled and it is the younger generation that will suffer the most. mr president, let me end with a warning: your arrogance will lead to many more people on the streets, and to many more people protesting against this failed social project. enjoy your champagne, ladies and gentlemen.
mr president, can i thank thomas mann very much for his work and for the good cooperation in committee. i am pleased that so many of my amendments were adopted in committee. we have to face the fact that many older people are still treated badly in many member states and of course the worst example of this is elder abuse. but there are other ways that older people are treated badly, including age discrimination in the workplace, and that is why i am pleased that in this report we call for the proper implementation of the 2000 employment directive and for older people to be made aware of their rights. i am also pleased that my amendment calling for an end to the mandatory retirement age, while of course maintaining a fixed pension age set at member state level, was accepted. it is wrong to force older people to stop working if they want to carry on and still have the ability to do that. we also need to keep up the pressure on the council to unblock the horizontal directive on access to goods and services, covering among other things age discrimination. it is about time older people had the same rights as everyone else. may i ask you, please, to vote for the original report and not for the epp amendment.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, year after year over the last 16 years, the auditors have been refusing to clear 90% or more of the budget, and this year is no exception. they talk about errors, but the nature of the irregularities they find goes far beyond that of a mistake. suffice to say that such a situation would cause the closure of a company in the private sector and the conviction of its directors. the fact is that taxpayers’ money has been unlawfully spent. this year, the auditors claim that at least gbp 6 billion should not have been paid out. what is the essence of the problem? the lack of responsibility. the commission and the auditors will as usual blame the member states, but the fact is that the failure resides within the commission due to the lack of proper controls. the commission is in the best position to establish the rules and to sanction those who breach them, but it has failed all along and this parliament also bears responsibility, as it has approved the situation every year and keeps asking for an increase in the budget. there is no hope any more that the eu budget will ever be cleared by the auditors. at this point, the only way to protect taxpayers’ money is to reduce the eu budget drastically. now i address the british prime minister. mr cameron, in accepting a 2.9% increase for the 2011 eu budget, you have failed dramatically. on behalf of british taxpayers, i hereby request that you lead the demand for a significant reduction of the 2011 budget.
madam president, i want to be as positive as i possibly can about this report, because i always believe that we should use audits to improve things and to learn from our mistakes. there are many examples where this can be done by the commission, by member states and by beneficiaries in order to improve matters, for example in agriculture. constant changes in requirements by the commission cause difficulties for member states and beneficiaries; in wales they tell me that all the time. to reduce claims for ineligible land by farmers, the commission could also provide legislation which clearly defines active farmers across the eu, which would then be used by all member states, whereas at the moment they have some discretion. lastly, with cap reform imminent there is a golden opportunity to simplify the processes to ensure that in europe we have value for money for our spending, but also continue to provide benefits for individuals and communities.
a uachtaráin, is infheistíocht chiallmhar, fhiúntach í cúnamh airgid caite ar éifeachtacht fuinnimh agus ar fhuinnimh in-athnuaite a bhfuil téarnamh geilleagrach mar chuspóir aici. aontaím go hiomlán leo siúd a dúirt gur féidir le tacaíocht infheistíochta i bhfuinneamh inbhuanaithe a bheith an-éifeachtach agus an-tairbheach go háirithe agus í dírithe ar an leibhéal áitiúil. tríd seo, tig linn todhchaí níos inbhuanaithe a sholáthar ar bhonn eacnamaíoch, ar bhonn sóisialta agus don chomhshaol leis. is gá dúinn an deis seo a thapú chun bogadh i dtreo geilleagar ísealcharbóin agus an t-athrú a éascú dóibh siúd ar mian leo athrú. tá dílárnú iontach tábhachtach ó thaobh fuinnimh inbhuanaithe de. is úsáid shiosmaideach fheidhmiúil í seo, mar sin de, den mhaoiniú neamhchaite ón chlár eorpach fuinneamh um théarnamh má thugtar deis maoiniú tograí infheistíochta a bhaineann le héifeachtacht fuinnimh agus le fuinneamh in-athnuaite a éascú trí údaráis áitiúla agus réigiúnacha. gabhaim buíochas leis an rapóirtéir as ucht a chuid oibre fíorthábhachtaí.
madam president, i note with gratitude that today is a public holiday in belgium to commemorate the millions that died in two world wars. i am somewhat dismayed that this chamber is not following suit and commemorating those millions, so i respectfully call for a moment of silence to commemorate all those who died in war in the name of democracy.
ms sinclaire, you should know that the president is scheduled to make an announcement before the house votes today and then the time will be respected, as it should be.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the crisis in the eu livestock sector by esther herranz garcía, albert deß, mairead mcguinness, giovanni la via, michel dantin, véronique mathieu, gabriel mato adrover, herbert dorfmann, georgios papastamkos, mariya nedelcheva, filip kaczmarek, jarosław kalinowski, béla glattfelder, czesław adam siekierski, rareş-lucian niculescu, sergio paolo francesco silvestris, elisabeth köstinger, milan zver, peter jahr, maria do céu patrão neves, on behalf of the group of the european people’s party (christian democrats), james nicholson, on behalf of the european conservatives and reformists, and luis manuel capoulas santos, paolo de castro, stéphane le foll, iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o-0141/2010/rév. 1) – b7-0559/2010).
author. − madam president, first of all i welcome the fact that this issue is being discussed here today. i think it is very timely. at present, the eu livestock sector is experiencing difficulties caused by a range of factors, including rising production costs, competition from imports from third countries, and of course various issues which contribute to the rising cost of feed. although we have no control over droughts in australia or severe weather conditions that affect the grain harvest in russia, i do believe that europe urgently needs to tackle its lack of self-sufficiency regarding protein crops. we are far too dependent on third countries for our feed and need to begin cultivating more ourselves. however, the situation at present is that we are forced to import a lot of our feed and i have said many times before that i strongly believe that the process of approving new types of gmo grain for import is taking far too long, and feedstuff from soya urgently requires to be speeded up. if this does not happen, livestock producers across the european union will have to cope with rising prices, volatility and uncertainty for a long time to come. may i also briefly mention how the situation is affecting the pig and poultry industry. farmers in this sector are feeling the crisis quite acutely, as their costs are arising and the price of pigmeat is falling. i would like to ask the commission to monitor the situation closely and utilise all the tools that it has at its disposal to rectify matters. beef producers, sheep producers, pig producers, poultry producers are all in a situation where they are making a loss. need i go on telling the house that all these areas are actually suffering? but i have to say that ultimately it will be the consumer who will pay because, if all the farmers stop producing, you are going to have to import this food from abroad, with all the problems this entails. so we have got to have security of our own food supply within europe. if we do not do that, it will be at our own peril.
madam president, i would urge the house to support this extremely important motion before us this morning. it is apparent to those of us who are from rural constituencies, and those who sit on the committee on agriculture and rural development, that the current position that many livestock farmers find themselves in is simply unsustainable. this is not an attempt to cry wolf, but if we do not rectify the problems identified within the motion, we will as a consequence face higher food prices and be more reliant on third country imports. countries like china and the united states are all increasingly aware of the importance of food supply security, and as a result are continuing to increase the support which they provide to agriculture. in northern ireland, the beef price is well below the cost of production. as long as the cost of inputs keeps rising, and extra-regulatory requirements continue to increase, then many farmers will exit the industry, resulting in land abandonment, lack of economic activity in rural areas and a reduction in food production across the eu. it is high time we recognised the importance of food security and the value of the work carried out by farmers across europe. finally, the current trade talks with the mercosur bloc are having a destabilising effect within the industry. coupled with difficult market conditionings and increasing costs, the livestock sector has been burdened with the further uncertainty created by reopening of the talks. the commission is carrying on the negotiations and, regardless of the utterances of the trade commissioner, producers in northern ireland so far believe that the results can only be negative for european farmers and the quality of food being provided to the citizens of europe.
a uachtaráin, is é an toradh le méadú mór ar na costais a bhaineann le beathú ainmhithe ná éagobhsaíocht laistigh de thionscal talmhaíochta na heorpa. tá tionchar diúltach ag luaineacht na bpraghsanna ar thionscal beostoic atá leochaileach cheana féin. tá méadú ar chostais ar bheathú cumaisc ag brú suas na gcostas táirgthe don earnáil bheostoic agus tá tuilleadh solúbthachta de dhíth ó thaobh cuidithe don earnáil seo. tá sé in am don choimisiún bearta a mholadh chun éagobhsaíocht sa phraghas a laghdú agus chun praghas na beatha a chobhsú. táim sásta a chuinstin ón choimisinéir go bhfuil sé ag amharc ar ionstraim úr chun déileáil le luaineacht na bpraghsanna i ndiaidh 2013. tá na bearta agus na hionstraimí cuí de dhíth anois fosta.
madam president, i support mr de castro’s remarks about meat and bone meal; deregulation in this area is highly necessary. the british livestock sector is struggling with high feed costs at present, and this is not helped by impediments which are placed in our way by the commission. top of the list is the individual electronic identification of sheep – a rule which is not applied to many other member states, and nor is it a requirement for imports of sheepmeat from third countries. the impending ban on battery cages is producing huge distortions in our egg market, as caged eggs from non-compliant member states can undercut our more expensively produced colony eggs. we have producers in this area running the two systems side-by-side before the deadline to try to recoup some of the gbp 400 million pounds we have spent complying with your rules which, of course, is putting more eggs on the market. overhanging the entire british livestock sector like a lead balloon is the spectre of the eu opening bilateral trade talks with mercosur. the british livestock farmer will be the sacrificial lamb in this deal and we are not happy about it.
madam president, the crisis in the eu’s livestock sector has hit farmers hard in scotland and there are many things we could do to help. firstly, we could reduce the regulatory burden. it is madness that we apply more stringent red tape and regulation to our own eu producers than we apply to our competitors outside the eu. our farmers are bound hand and foot by red tape, and yet we import vast quantities of foodstuffs produced under welfare and hygiene conditions that would constitute a criminal offence in the eu. the high cost of complying with all of this red tape is not reflected in the prices our beef farmers are getting for their cattle. british beef is now being sold well below the cost of production; lowland suckler-cow producers reckon they are losing around gbp 260 per cow; our dairy farmers have suffered a long spiral of decline. we have to stop the rot.
i have received four motions for resolutions see minutes.tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
mr president, when we looked at the initial proposal right at the beginning, 18 months ago, we saw what many would describe as a ‘wrinkly shirt’. this was clearly a proposal on which the industry had not been consulted – a proposal which would have shut markets, made it very difficult for european investors to invest in non-eu funds and led to a lower return for pension funds, affecting investment in developing countries. i was very concerned about those proposals. fortunately, after the work between the shadow rapporteurs and excellent cooperation, as well as the good work by the commissioner and the belgian presidency, we came to an acceptable solution that now works and which keeps markets open, increases transparency and ensures that european investors can continue to invest in markets outside the eu. we have to keep a watchful eye on the role of esma to make sure it does not block access to non-eu funds, but overall we have come up with a compromise that is acceptable across the house.
mr president, yesterday the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, made an extraordinary speech in which he said that it was impossible to be outside the european union in a globalised world. of course, hence the lengthy dole queues snaking across norway, or the food riots in switzerland. but he went on to say something else: he said that the dangerous thing about eurosceptism today is that modern patriotism is based on a denigration of other countries, and here he could not be more wrong. a true patriot cheers the freedom of all peoples and values the patriotism of other countries. when mr van rompuy went on to make his second point, which is that eurosceptism equals nationalism equals war, he would perhaps have been well advised to look at the aims of the allied powers in the two wars whose end we commemorate today. they were fighting for the freedom of all nations, for the restoration of sovereignty of all european countries. it was thanks to their patriotism that europe was not united in tyranny, that sovereignty and independence were restored and indeed that the european union became possible. today of all days he ought to remember that.
mr president, i have to say this resolution as a compromise was fine, but it seems to many in this house that it is too lengthy and it does not directly deal with the points we need to be making. it needs to be separated and shortened: the transtlantic economic council issues could be shortened to maybe a 10-point plan, a three-point plan or whatever, so that we can actually use it when we finally go to speak to the administration and our congressional colleagues. i believe we also need to discuss issues such as a zero-tariff game, where current trade between the us and the eu can be enhanced and competitiveness can be increased by engaging in such a process. this could involve agriculture, but anyway it is going to enhance whatever we do. finally, parliament must not wait for the administration to determine what we do in tec. we should set the agenda ourselves. it is all very fine voting for this – and i voted for it because i helped to negotiate it – but because of that i realise that it also has its weaknesses. i think we should then look to the new congress under john boehner, who i am sure will be announced as speaker, and darrell issa and his colleagues who we probably must welcome, in order to be able to do better business in the future on this issue.
mr president, demographers tell us that in order to sustain itself a population needs a birth rate of 2.1 live births per woman. in the whole of europe, the only country that is reproducing at sustainability level is albania, or turkey if you count turkey as a european country – and nowhere else. according to one un report, europe, including european russia, is scheduled to lose 100 million people over the next 40 years. germany alone is going to see a shrinkage of its population by 20 million. these are not projections about what might happen if we do not do something, as there is nothing we can do about it now since the decline in birth rates has already happened. the only question is how we deal with it. how did we get to this stage? what brought us to this pass? one does not want to oversimplify, as there are obviously a lot of things going on, to do with changing working patterns, the spread of contraception, the different role of women in society, and longevity. however, i wonder whether one part of the problem is the way in which the state has expanded and squeezed out the private sphere, has annexed to itself jobs and duties that were traditionally discharged within a family – childcare, education and social security. the first generation raised with cradle to grave welfare, or in other words to be excused the traditional responsibilities of adulthood, has also been the first to give up on parenthood. we now face a choice between demographic collapse or importing 100 million people to sustain our numbers and pay our pensions. this should be the top issue in europe and it is not one we can address by arguing about changes in employment regulation.
in writing. − i voted against the gauzes report on the aifm directive because it disadvantages an important part of the united kingdom's most important industry, financial services. it has lumped all funds not already covered by the ucits directive, from investment trusts to hedge funds in a single mixed bag of expensive legislation. it also has created burdens for european managers and investors in europe that third countries do not place on their managers and investors. this will inevitably mean a loss of talent from london to countries outside the eu. as usual eu legislation adds expensive costs to industry which disproportionately affects smes and therefore favours the big players. by punishing private equity funds it will cause a loss of investment in the uk and europe at a time that greater investment is needed to remain competitive in a globalised economy. it is applied at a low threshold which will particularly affect pe funds by bringing small funds quickly under the directive when they have made just a small number of investments. the capital requirements will be especially burdensome to pe and venture capital. venture capital is needed to create new jobs in startups.
in writing. − i voted against the gauzes report on the aifm directive because it disadvantages an important part of the united kingdom's most important industry, financial services. it has lumped all funds not already covered by the ucits directive, from investment trusts to hedge funds in a single mixed bag of expensive legislation. it also has created burdens for european managers and investors in europe that third countries do not place on their managers and investors. this will inevitably mean a loss of talent from london to countries outside the eu. as usual eu legislation adds expensive costs to industry which disproportionately affects smes and therefore favours the big players. by punishing private equity funds it will cause a loss of investment in the uk and europe at a time that greater investment is needed to remain competitive in a globalised economy. it is applied at a low threshold which will particularly affect pe funds by bringing small funds quickly under the directive when they have made just a small number of investments. the capital requirements will be especially burdensome to pe and venture capital. venture capital is needed to create new jobs in startups.
in writing. − i am pleased that there has been a conclusion to aifm and that the issue of investment companies were taken into account and there will be greater consideration when legislative proposals are put forward.
in writing. − conservative meps believe that in the current financial and economic climate, proposals for new eu expenditure must be subjected to rigorous scrutiny. with regard to this particular instrument we were concerned in terms of the budgetary principles of the eu budget and of budget discipline. however, conservative meps note the potential value added offered by this proposal and its focus on priority policy areas. conservative meps can therefore support the compromise proposal as an exception, and in no way setting a precedent.
in writing. − the relationship between the uk and other european countries with the us will continue to be our most important strategic priority for decades to come. in some areas of activity the eu may also be able to make a useful contribution. i therefore supported the resolution on eu-us relations. however, i remain unconvinced about the value of csdp and the policy towards iran needs to be strengthened.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr balz on his report. however, at a time when the euro is facing new crises every day and it is generally accepted that new forms of governance and new rules are required for survival, it is hard for the ecb to weigh in on outside global issues. yet that could be precisely the problem. until now, most of the large global players have succeeded in working together to seek solutions to the problems of the global financial crisis. the coordination in areas of financial services regulatory reform, particularly in areas like derivatives, has been unprecedented. but when it is national currencies that are being defended as opposed to multinational banks, there is a strong danger that multilateral coordination is going to break down. if the ecb looks to protect the euro above all else, the fed to protect the dollar and the chinese the yuan, we will all lose out. since its inception the ecb has done the difficult job of balancing different cultures and methods of monetary policy. i hope that, even while it is under intense internal pressure, it can use its expertise in these areas to enhance cooperation beyond the eu to a global level.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i read the committee on economic and monetary affairs’ report on the european central bank’s annual report with great interest. the report acknowledges that huge disparities between member states of the euro zone contributed to the problems we are witnessing. the report states that ‘these imbalances pose considerable difficulties for a suitable monetary policy within the euro zone’ and reiterates that ‘the financial crisis in some countries within the euro area is a serious matter for the area as a whole’, reflecting this ‘dysfunction of the euro area’. i strain to see the sense in calling for stronger coordination of economic policies within the euro area. the knee-jerk reaction has been to increase economic governance, but it is limitations of enforced commonality that have led particular member states into financial crisis, combined with extraneous reasons as yet beyond control. perhaps the system does not allow for the necessary economic elasticity and self-determination to enable governments to deal with idiosyncratic problems effectively, such as rates of inflation. the report lights upon this point, noting that the crisis and subsequent bail-outs and stimulus packages ‘led to far-reaching austerity measures which … heavily constrain the capacity of governments to act’. one argument is that you cannot have a single currency without further homogenisation to iron out differences between member states and levels of wealth. yet any realist knows that this will not happen. it is contrary to human nature, which logically should shine forth in a democracy, however inconvenient. is the euro zone ready for estonia in january? i raise my eyebrows at the statement that ‘the adoption of the currency by estonia shows the status of the euro’, suggesting that this will ‘encourage (other) member states to seek membership’. ideological clinging to the euro will see monetary problems resurface in boom time and bust. a single currency only works in a tight-knit federal environment. perhaps, with this being the commission’s ultimate intention, they have put the cart before the horse. although the uk is not in the euro zone, we suffer the effects of contributing to bail-outs and through the intricately entwined economics inside the union, it is no use waiting for the ‘i told you so’ moment. it has already passed.
madam president, my constituents in london simply cannot afford the gbp 288 estimated per family as their part of the contribution to the seven billion bail-out of ireland. the irish are the authors of their own misfortune: their government mismanaged their economy and fuelled a house-building boom unrelated to reality. but worst of all, they joined the european single currency. the first step in solving their problems is to leave the euro; instead, ireland has chosen to subject itself to financial governance from the european union. the longer it takes to leave the euro, the worse the consequences of the exit will be. the same applies, of course, to portugal, italy, spain and greece and, no doubt, others. the only sensible thing that the late and unlamented labour government did was to keep britain out of the euro. a sensible thing that the coalition government can do is to stop throwing good money after bad.
mr president, taxes are at best a necessary evil, and should always reflect spending needs. a tax rate that is set before spending needs are decided is a recipe for taking people’s money and then deciding what to spend it on. it is a recipe for profligacy. harmonisation of vat rates to a common standard and a common reduced rate, which was the proposal of the commission back in 1993, would take yet more power out of the hands of member states. the levying of taxation is one of the defining characteristics of a sovereign state. it will be yet another step towards the sovereign state being the european union, and member states simply being powerless appendices to it. combating fraud and easing burdens on smes are red herrings. vat harmonisation is about centralisation and the consolidation of eu power.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, two months ago i co-chaired the delegation under the acp to haiti and this was probably one of the greatest and most moving experiences of my life. first, there are tremendously dedicated people there doing the work to try to help the haitians, and second, the haitian people are a very proud people and we should recognise that at the beginning of this debate. but we were told by the president and the prime minister how lucky the haitians were that they had good sanitation and that they had no disease – and the sad thing now is that disease has hit them. this is not a terribly hard disease to cure. but you have got to be there to see the conditions under which the aid workers are working and when you talk about a health service, i am sorry, mr president, haiti does not have a health service like the rest of us and you know it: they are dependent on médecins sans frontières, the british red cross and many other organisations from all around the world. as far as the election is concerned, it is true that haiti does not need an election at this moment. but until they get a president and a prime minister who can lead them, they will have no chance of moving forward. i want to commend – because when i was there i saw it for myself – the brilliant men and women of the european commission office, under terrible circumstances, trying to keep a european presence in port-au-prince and they have done a fantastic job.
mr president, i would like to start by congratulating commissioner georgieva on the effective coordination work that she has undertaken and indeed the discussions that she is having with baroness amos at the un. the easiest and cheapest thing for this house to do now is to criticise. i would like us to be positive and place the pressure where it needs to be. i say this to all members of this house. we need to put pressure on our own member states to bring forward more aid, and more aid in kind. if you look at the list of countries, these are countries – such as spain, ireland, italy, france, austria, hungary – currently facing grave economic situations, yet they have dug deep. therefore i urge each and every one of us to contact our own governments and ask them to commit. if there are questions as to whether aid is getting through or not, let us build the capacity to get the aid through. finally, i should like to thank the commissioner and congratulate her on the commitment of the extra eur 12 million. the great tragedy is the earthquake. the even greater tragedy now is this cholera epidemic.
mr president, this is a tragedy that does not bear talking about. when the disaster struck in january last year, the international community descended on haiti with great fanfare. military helicopters came to lift heavy pieces of masonry that had fallen down. they have all gone. they suddenly left. those pieces of masonry are blocking roads and there is no access, and the road network has broken down. commissioner georgieva has been trying hard to coordinate the activities. why did this happen? why did all those people – including secretary of state clinton, who suddenly turned up there in january – suddenly disappear? why is the united nations now being asked to disappear? when are they going to ask the eu to disappear? this is ridiculous. we need the international community back there at the level at which it was working, and should let ordinary haitians be depoliticised from this nonsense going on in the capital.
mr president, the issues raised in this debate are not specific to the area specified. there are also issues affecting vessels in the north sea. i had a meeting with fishermen from whitby in yorkshire on friday. they are just as concerned with issues that are likely to drive out of business the remaining vessels in the british fleet. the immediate threat is of a proposed reduction in the number of days they are allowed to fish, from 135 days possibly down to 90 days. i asked the trawlermen how much of a reduction they could bear before being driven out of business, and they replied that any reduction would have that effect. the policy of forcing trawlers to discard dead and dying fish to avoid landing undersized fish or exceeding species quotas is absolutely monstrous. all fish that have been caught and will not survive must be landed. discarding is not conservation, it is waste. high grading is a response to the unfair quota system. reform the system and it will disappear. quotas are bought and sold on the open market and speculated by the rich and powerful. this pushes up the price of quotas, which are rented to fishermen for extortionate amounts. speculation must be ended completely.
mr president, i support the line taken by mr gallagher in his report and will be voting accordingly tomorrow, when we get to that. the principle of multiannual planning is a sensible one if it allows for reasonable forward planning on the part of fishers and also the processing sector. but, in general, there remain some very negative aspects of eu fisheries management, as you are aware. i strongly believe that it is the fishing nations themselves – those who have entitlement in particular sea areas – who should be making the decisions on stock conservation and management. a number of speakers have again referred to the scandal of discards. there is a growing awareness in scotland that discards are a direct result of eu regulation, and in particular the cod recovery plan. i hope the commissioner will take note of this and take action to deal with that part of the discard scandal, which could be avoided by changing some of the unworkable regulations which currently apply.
mr president, it is good that the eu is trying to preserve endangered fish stocks, but before there is too much self-congratulation on these proposals, we must remember that many past eu fishing rules have been appalling failures. britain’s home waters have been fished to near extinction under european fisheries policies. the reality is that the protection of fish stocks is best left to local fishermen and national government marine scientists, not eu bureaucrats. the advice from the men working in the broken remnants of britain’s fishing fleets is simple: scrap quota systems, which lead to discards and high grading, and replace them with weight-based catch limits so that all fish caught are landed for human consumption or for processing into animal and fish feed. we need to replace the system of openly tradable quotas and so stop financiers, supermarkets and the super rich from speculating in fishermen’s livelihoods. quotas of all kinds – and in whichever seas – should be owned by fishermen from ports with traditional connections to those waters and be tradable only between fishermen who are likewise entitled to fish by personal, family and community connections.
mr president, i have recently been trying to establish the cost of the common fisheries policy to the british economy. the best estimate in lost catch alone is at least gbp 3.6 billion per annum; the cost of higher food bills is put at around gbp 4.7 billion per annum; the cost of subsidies, unemployment, wasted resources, red tape, etc. is put at about gbp 2.8 billion per annum. this makes an annual total upwards of gbp 11.1 billion. the fishing industry has been devastated, with over 97 000 jobs lost since 1973 in fishing and dependent industries. the knock-on economic and human costs are incalculable; the ecological impact of the common fisheries policy is a disaster. over 880 000 dead fish are dumped into the north sea every year. the solution for britain is of course to leave the european union, regain control of our territorial waters and restore sanity to a revitalised national fishing industry.
madam president, how often do we wonder about the side-effects of medicines we are taking? how often do we wish for more information on products and illnesses? this report deals with these questions and the need the public has for information. the change of focus from the original council proposals was important, as was the emphasis on the patient’s right to access information as opposed to the possibility of pharmaceutical companies providing information. this was achieved by a ban on direct consumer advertising for prescription-only medicines. in addition, an important issue was the recognition of the national competent authority and healthcare professionals as the main source of information. again, this was achieved. the information to patients directive sends a strong message on the rights of patients. i congratulate the rapporteur on tackling a difficult dossier and producing a comprehensive directive which, i hope, we will all support unitedly.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would first of all like to thank all of my colleagues who have made this first reading agreement possible – in particular, of course, all of the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and both the spanish and belgian presidencies, as well as the environment committee and the group staff and assistants. we managed to reach agreement following a lot of hard but constructive work including some very difficult compromises. to put this debate into its proper context, over 9 million tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment is sold every year in the european union. most of this is large household appliances and it and telecommunication equipment. as this market continues to grow it has also become the fastest-growing waste stream in the eu, estimated to rise to a huge 12.3 million tonnes by 2020. it is a very complex waste stream that includes several hazardous substances. the waste hierarchy makes prevention of waste the first priority, which means substituting hazardous substances in products which prevent recycling or pose a risk to health and the environment when undergoing waste treatment. the commission estimates that the current rohs directive has led to a reduction of 100 000 tonnes of certain heavy metals and two groups of brominated flame retardants from going into the waste stream and potentially entering the environment. rohs has set a global standard, but there was a need for more clarity so we had a great responsibility with this recast to ensure that a clearer and more ambitious law was adopted. i believe that we have improved the current directive in a number of ways. it now has a clear methodology, with criteria for deciding on new restrictions, complementary to and independent of reach. the scope has been extended to include all electrical and electronic equipment within eight years, unless it is specifically excluded. there will be a review for additional exclusions within three years, together with an examination of three phthalates and one brominated flame retardant identified as priority. time-limited exemptions can be granted on the basis of clear criteria and application deadlines. nanomaterials will be looked at specifically in future reviews of restrictions. given my ambitions for this report, members will not be surprised that i am not completely satisfied with the final outcome. the rohs directive was designed to address the specific problems of a specific waste stream and i think that we have missed an opportunity to move it forward substantially by adding further restrictions. however, we have kept its identity and strengthened the commission proposal in many ways. on correlation tables, my group supports making this obligatory for member states but this is a horizontal issue that affects all european legislation and cannot be resolved in this one file. to help find a solution, i proposed in amendment 105 that we adopt a declaration calling on the commission to report on the current practice of member states in providing correlation tables and how it affects the commission’s work instead of insisting on mandatory correlation tables. this will give us a much clearer picture for the future debate. in summary, we managed to strengthen a rather vague and unambitious proposal into a new rohs which will deliver a higher level of protection for human health and the environment now and in the near future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to add my thanks to the rapporteur and her staff. after very long negotiations, we have an agreement that my group can sign up to. however, i do want to take this opportunity to mention a couple of areas. this recast was intended to improve matters. by definition, i think that is what a recast should do. it was intended to simplify the requirements and demands on manufacturers. looking at the result, it seems to me to be in many ways one step forward and two back. i welcome the removal of annex 3, which effectively created a blacklist for many substances, but i regret the inability to agree on the availability as a criterion. that took a great deal of discussion. secondly, it was intended to create legal certainty. i have to mention the opening of the scope here. right from the beginning, i argued that it would create uncertainty and simply cause new demands for exemptions and exceptions. it seemed to me that, at the very least, we required a full impact assessment from the commission before agreeing to this. i have not changed my mind, but i accept that i have lost the argument. the checks and balances now being written into the regulations are, i believe, going to lead to a number of challenges, and i welcome the commission’s commitment to look at this after it is included. but it would, in my view, have been better to have done this before. i wonder how this opening of the scope has actually advanced legal certainty and clarity. finally, i would also like to mention the real danger of over-regulation. in voting for the rohs recast, we are in effect continuing a dual tracking of regulation and eu approval for chemical – hazardous – substances. we have the reach regulations in place, and their implementation is, as we heard at committee recently, evolving satisfactorily. at some point soon we will have to grasp the nettle and let the reach regime lead, as it was intended to. i look forward to the commission taking this point on board.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members of parliament, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur again for her hard work, owing to which an agreement appears to be emerging from parliament. this is very important. so we now have a package of rules set out by parliament thanks to which member states can ensure that electronic products placed on the european markets are free of certain hazardous substances. this proposal was a compromise, and we all know that compromises lead to compromises. this is obvious, so it is also obvious that parliament, the commission and everybody involved has shown a great deal of goodwill. the result is something that the majority of us can support. the commission has a lot to say on this issue. we would have liked the compromise text and scope to be clearer with regard to the obligations of the member states and the economic operators within the eight-year transition period. the statements the commission has made on the scope outline the way we think the compromise text should be interpreted with regard to the scope. this is why i would like to ensure that these statements are included in parliament’s record. we nevertheless take very seriously our obligations to make an impact assessment of all scope changes as compared to the current directive, and we will start working on this as soon as the revised directive enters into force. on enforcement, we find that the provisions on conformity assessment and marking are going to make a difference, as they set clear obligations both on how economic operators show that their products are compliant and on how member states are supposed to verify compliance. so this is not the end of our work. i would like to thank you all for your contributions and your suggestions. the commission will take them on board.
rapporteur. − madam president, first i would like to thank all my colleagues for their comments. it will be clear to anybody listening to this debate just what differences there were between the groups and what a difficult process this has sometimes been. but we have the support of all the groups, and i very much hope and trust that in the vote on wednesday we will see that reflected. i am also very pleased to hear that the commission is committed to this directive, since the future of the directive itself will lie almost entirely in the hands of the commission should the text be adopted on wednesday. we will have no further co-decision powers and in future the commission would review the scope and the future restrictions. so i would call on the commission to prioritise that view of the future restrictions so that we can further clean up this very important waste stream, which still creates so many problems for human health and the environment. as we have heard colleagues saying tonight, prevention is better than cure and there are far more problem substances than those heavy metals and brominated flame retardants which are restricted under the current rohs directive. there is also plenty of evidence of the need for future restrictions. this debate has of course been followed with interest by a great many people, including industry and ngos. i believe that in this final compromise we have remained true to the original aims of rohs, and that we will have a more effective piece of legislation should parliament vote in favour on wednesday.
madam president, ireland’s bail-out is unlikely to be the last in the euro zone, despite protestations to the contrary. despite the debt crisis plaguing the emu, officials are keen to emphasise that ireland’s problem is different from the one seven months previously in greece. whereas with athens it was fiscal irresponsibility and public sector corruption, dublin’s debt is due to reckless banking. portugal does not appear to suffer greatly from either, yet it is still struggling to keep its head above water, as is spain. what do these countries have in common? the not-fit-for-purpose single currency, founded upon idealistic ideology and not economic sense. the old adage about putting all your eggs in one basket rings true. which are europe’s most prosperous countries? that would be norway and switzerland. they control their own resources and economies, yet still trade with their eu neighbours, knowing they can cast their nets elsewhere if the eu drags the whole project into oblivion. a rescue of portugal would push the combined bill to the eur 300 billion mark, exhausting the euro zone’s entire capital. surely the only reasonable choice left is eu-thanasia.
madam president, tomorrow, 23 november, is the fourth anniversary of the death in london of my constituent, alexander litvinenko. mr litvinenko was murdered by elements of the russian state in an act of state-sponsored terrorism. the three main suspects wanted by the metropolitan police – andrei lugovoi, dmitry kovtun and vyacheslav sokolenko – are still free in russia. meanwhile, mr litvinenko’s dignified widow marina is denied justice. so far, no coroner’s court has been convened to investigate the death, as would be the usual practice in the event of such a violent death. i therefore take this opportunity to call on the british authorities to convene a coroner’s court as soon as possible to establish and publicly state the circumstances and cause of death and formally identify those wanted in connection with the police investigations for murder. mr litvinenko was a british citizen murdered on british soil. this is the least that he and his family can expect or should be entitled to.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group also extends its sincere condolences to those affected. i have very personal experience of this, indeed it was the flooding in my own region which first brought me into contact with the european parliament and indeed inspired me to become a member eventually, so the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in that event was certainly a big event for me. only this week we have had further flooding in cornwall, which is in my region. my point has already been made by mr sterckx, but i think it bears repetition. i think that early warnings are important, but we all know how quickly the weather moves and how quickly the weather changes. i wonder if it is really a good use of money to put a lot into early warnings on weather, which are already really there. it is about what you do when you get the warnings. as mr sterckx has said, europe could certainly add a great deal of value by having a situation in which we could learn from each other. i know in the case of gloucestershire, where i came from, we were greatly helped after the floods by connections most particularly with austrian regions, where they had major experience of flooding in highly elevated areas. we did not have that. i think it would be a very good idea for the commission to focus on setting up some regional connections so that we can learn from each other about how we cope with this, because it clearly is not going to go away.
mr president, i want to give my support to resolution 1325. i turn the house’s attention to the situation in northern ireland, where we have a very active women’s sector – a sector that has been a force for good within the country. before coming to this house, i represented west belfast in the northern ireland assembly and the shankill area of belfast in local government. these are areas that have been ravaged by over 30 years of violence inflicted through a terrorist campaign by irish republicans and intra-community violence. throughout that time, groups like the women’s centre have been a cohesive force, enhancing community capacity and forging links with other women’s groups in other communities. they are ordinary women who have proved themselves to be leaders and an excellent role model for other countries and communities that find themselves faced with terrorism and violence. today, groups like the shankill women’s centre, the foyle women’s network and training for women are not only forging the way ahead in community relations in northern ireland, but are also giving women opportunities in the labour market through education and training. this is the way forward, colleagues.
mr president, would you trust an economic forecaster who had recently said this: ‘the euro has done more to enforce budgetary discipline in the rest of europe than any number of exhortations from the imf or the oecd’? or this: ‘the euro has already provided great internal stability for the euro zone’? or this: ‘if we get rid of sterling and adopt the euro, we will also get rid of sterling crises and sterling over-valuations. this will give us a real control over our economic environment’. all three of those quotations come from our former colleagues in this house, nick clegg and chris huhne – now, alarmingly, ministers in the british government. we, on the other hand, who oppose the euro – there is no way of putting this modestly – have been proved absolutely right. we always said that an ecb rate determined by the needs of the core would be disastrous for the periphery. i am not expecting any humility from those who got it so disastrously wrong. i am sure they will still be wheeled out by the bbc as disinterested experts, and i am sure that we will still be portrayed as doctrinaire hardliners. believe me, i am not gloating for the sake of it. a friend of mine just said that there is nothing more irritating than being wise during the event. but please listen to us next time. the single currency forces nations to adopt the wrong monetary policy, with calamitous outcomes for the bailout receivers and to those paying.
mr president, i share the concern my colleague just expressed about this obsession with harmonisation. when we look at the moves towards a common vat tax base we hear meps across this house arguing for more and more harmonisation when it comes to tax, forgetting that what we really need here at eu level is more tax competition. we also need this at global level to ensure that when it comes to the economy and economic competitiveness, we are not taxing our citizens out of productive capability and productive forces – what we are actually doing is ensuring that we have enough entrepreneurs and innovators in a country, and one of the best ways we can do that is by tax competition. this obsession with harmonisation has led us to a single currency that does not take account of national differences and differences in economic cycles. this is why countries are suffering; this is partly why ireland is suffering; and it is time we moved more towards competition, rather than to common tax bases.
mr president, we can see the way in which the irish republic has been brought to its present predicament by the euro. as early as 2001, irish economists were alarmingly warning that ireland desperately needed to raise interest rates to choke off the unsustainable boom. but of course there were no irish interest rates; there was only the european central bank, which, by giving the core members what they needed, was giving the peripheral members a double dose of what they did not need, namely artificially cheap money. the problems of ireland are going to carry on for as long as it is in the single currency. the bailout may allow it to limp on until the next time that its monetary policy needs to diverge from those of the rest of the euro zone. it is crazy, at a time like this, when my own country already owes gbp 850 billion, that we should be borrowing another gbp 7 billion to send to ireland. that money will not only be useless, it will be actively harmful because it will trap the republic of ireland in its present discontents. if we want to be helpful, we could offer our friends and neighbours the far more immediate and practical assistance of allowing them a temporary currency union with sterling, allowing them to treat their loans as being denominated in pounds, and allowing them then to export their way back to growth.
in writing. − considering the illegitimacy, undemocratic structure, corruption and megalomaniac ulterior motivation of the european union in general and the commission, in particular, we of the ukip cannot condone the commission’s monopolisation of public funds for any purpose whatever and believe, consequently, that any monies it directs to the repair of last year’s flood damage in ireland will not be properly used and will merely conceal the need for relief funding that is correctly disbursed and directed by democratically-elected governments.
in writing. − i welcome this report agreeing to release eu funds to assist the victims of flooding in ireland. ireland applied for assistance from the european solidarity fund following heavy rain which lead to severe flooding in november 2009. the flooding caused damage to the agricultural sector, residential properties, businesses and road networks and infrastructures. after evaluation of the application the commission has proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 13 022 500. it is worth noting that this is the first agreed proposal to mobilise funds in 2010 and the amount proposed will leave at least 98% of the european solidarity fund available for allocation in the rest of 2010.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which backs a commission proposal to mobilise eur 2 890 027 from the european globalisation fund in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic crisis. this application concerns 821 redundancies in 70 enterprises (printing and reproduction of recorded media) over a nine month period. the european globalisation fund was created to help mitigate such unfortunate events.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which backs an application to mobilise the european globalisation fund concerning 140 redundancies in 2 enterprises (printing and reproduction of recorded media) over a nine month period in the drenthe division in the netherlands. it forms part of a package of six interrelated applications dealing with redundancies in eight different regions of the netherland. there has been a substantial decrease in demand in the printing and publishing sector due to the economic crisis. i welcome the solidarity we are showing with the workers facing a difficult time.
in writing. − i support this measure of european solidarity with the 129 workers in 9 enterprises (printing and reproduction) who are facing redundancy. the eur 549 946 will offer some assistance to them in being reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. − i welcome the report, which backs plans to release eur 2 013 619 to help workers in overijssel made redundant due to the downturn in the printing industry. this support from the european globalisation fund should help reintegrate the workers into the labour market and i am pleased to see european solidarity in operation.
in writing. − i am pleased that eur 2 266 625 has been made available through the european globalisation fund in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the printing industry due to the global economic crisis. this application concerns 720 redundancies in 79 enterprises in the noord holland and utrecht division of the netherlands.
in writing. − i welcome this report and the support the european globalisation fund is giving to workers made redundant. this proposal is for eur 2 326 459 to assist 598 workers, from 8 enterprises in the printing and reproduction media, who are loosing their jobs because of the economic crisis. this is an important example of european solidarity.
in writing. − i voted for this report. currently, as an exception to state aid rules, the german authorities may grant state aid under the german alcohol monopoly for products marketed as alcohol of agricultural origin. the current derogation ends on 31 december 2010 and the draft regulation extends the application of the derogation and proposes that the production/sales monopoly shall gradually decrease so that the monopoly will finally cease to exist as from 1 january 2018. i welcome this phasing-out.
in writing. − the wto duty-free rules for pharmaceutical ingredients are universally supported by the pharmaceutical industry. this is an industry which is important to scotland, employing some 5 000 people nationwide. the eu as a whole is a key producer and user of pharmaceutical products and i was happy to support this report.
in writing. − this proposal invites council and parliament to authorise the addition of a further 718 pharmaceutical and chemical products to the already existing list of 8 619 products benefiting from bound duty-free treatment upon importation into the eu. i voted for it.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which concerns the reconsultation of parliament on previous council decisions concerning the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and ukraine. at a summit in ukraine in november 2008 both parties confirmed their interest in renewal of the agreement for a further five years and i welcome this.
in writing. − the commission negotiated on behalf of the union an agreement with the government of the faroes on scientific and technological cooperation in june 2010. i voted for this report which approves the proposal.
in writing. − the commission has negotiated an agreement on cooperation in science and technology with japan, signed on 30 november 2009. i welcome this report, which approves the agreement, but i believe that the eu must work to intensify its relationship with japan.
in writing. − the commission negotiated an agreement between the eu and jordan on scientific and technological cooperation. this was signed on 30 november 2009. i voted for this report, which approves the agreement.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal on a fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the solomon islands, but with serious reservations. eu development cooperation policy and the common fisheries policy have to be brought into a coherent, complementary and coordinated relationship, so that together they can help to reduce poverty in countries which have untapped fishery resources that they are seeking to exploit sustainably, while endeavouring to develop their local communities
in writing. − i voted for this report, which examines a commission proposal to extend by 5 years to 31 december 2015 the requirement for eu countries to have a minimum standard vat rate of 15%. this is desirable in normal times but in the present economic crisis it is even more necessary. tax competition that drove down vat rates would be ruinous for countries trying to maintain an acceptable level of public services.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which examined the ecb’s annual report for 2009. my group (the s&d group) used the report to push for our core macro-economic policies, including: coordination of macroeconomic policies by the member states; a permanent crisis-management framework; a strengthened growth and stability pact; the possibility of creating a european credit rating agency; credit for smes; and flexible exit from government support following crisis.
in writing. − concerning the vote on the resolution on the ehler report labour, meps were happy to be able to give their support. i and my labour colleagues are happy to support positive civilian and military cooperation and greater capacity-building in order to help preserve peace, prevent conflicts and consolidate post conflict rehabilitation. at this time of financial struggle across europe we question, however, the need for the establishment of a permanent eu operational headquarters and what added value it would bring to the positive work already being done.
in writing. − i welcome some aspects of this report dealing with civilian-military cooperation and the development of civilian-military capabilities. i particularly welcome cooperation on humanitarian crises and natural disasters.
in writing. − while we would clearly support the principle of enhanced civilian-military cooperation in certain activities, this report has an entirely different thrust. it is essentially about taking forward the eu’s ambitions in the defence field in order to promote eu integration. we do not support these objectives. in particular: the idea of an eu defence white paper that would ‘explicitly identify opportunities for the pooling of defence resources at eu level’; the demand for increases in staff to man duplicative eu military structures; the establishment of a permanent eu ‘operational hq, responsible for the operational planning and conduct of eu military operations’; and the idea of a vanguard group of nations to take forward defence integration using the treaty of lisbon’s mechanism of ‘permanent structured cooperation’. there are many more examples. for all these reasons we voted against the resolution.
in writing. − the anchovy fishery in the bay of biscay has been closed since 2005 due to the poor state of that stock. this report details the objectives of a plan to maintain the biomass of the stock of anchovy in the bay of biscay at a level that allows its sustainable exploitation in accordance with maximum sustainable yield, on the basis of scientific advice, and while ensuring as much stability and profitability for the fishing sector as is practicable. the plan is similar to other long-term plans for pelagic fisheries (such as that recently agreed for the west of scotland stock of herring) in that it provides a harvest control rule for exploitation at high long-term yields whilst protecting against the risk of stock collapse.
in writing. − atlantic horse mackerel has grown in importance in my own constituency and last year some gbp 2 million worth of the fish was landed into scottish ports by foreign boats alone. this figure shows that it is of importance to a number of nations and it is important that the stock is properly managed. i fully agree with mr gallagher that the western stock should be dealt with as a single stock, and i believe that the fishing nations involved should have the right to cooperate in managing this important resource.
in writing. − the proposal establishes a long-term plan for the western stock of atlantic horse mackerel and the fisheries exploiting that stock. the commission laid down a legal management instrument for the stock of horse mackerel according to available conservation reference points and long-term sustainability considerations. the proposal aims at ensuring an exploitation of living aquatic resources that provides sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which backs a proposal designed to simplify administration but does not make substantive changes to the restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot in the baltic sea.
in writing. − we abstained on the bilbao barandica, gallagher and ferreira reports on the grounds that they contained beneficial and harmful proposals in the same instrument. however, we voted in favour of the gróbarczyk report, despite having misgivings about some of its content (e.g. its suggestion that the discard system might have worked well for certain species of fish – we are opposed to the discard system completely). we voted in favour of it because it promised a review of the discard system. this is about as much as we can hope for within the confines of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − whilst aquaculture is an important source of both jobs and food, it is important that the wider environment is protected from potential threats. the existing legislation strives to do this and today’s proposal will not undermine those efforts; accordingly i supported this report.
in writing. − the ferreira report deals with the amendment of council regulation no 708/2007, which established a framework governing aquaculture practices in relation to alien and locally absent species. this framework is now under revision after the completion of the so-called impasse project, whose aim was to develop guidelines for environmentally sound practices for introductions and translocations in aquaculture. i voted for the report.
in writing. − ukip opposes any eu management of our industries, as it should be up to national elected governments to decide on the future and any potential subsidy of coal mines. however, in this case the eu is making special arrangements for governments, outside of normal state aid rules, for greater flexibility to manage subsidies to coal mines. amendments 25 and 36 are asking for a greater period of such flexibility before normal state aid laws would apply – which ukip can go some way to support. ukip has abstained on these two amendments and the final vote because, although we do not support any eu state aid laws (as it should be up to national governments to decide subsidy levels), giving greater flexibility to member states and lengthening this period is beneficial and much more democratically accountable, putting power back into the hands of governments to make these decisions.
in writing. − ukip opposes any eu management of our industries, as it should be up to national elected governments to decide on the future and any potential subsidy of coal mines. however, in this case the eu is making special arrangements for governments, outside of normal state aid rules, for greater flexibility to manage subsidies to coal mines. amendment 25 and 36 are calling for a greater period of such flexibility before normal state aid laws would apply, which ukip can go some way to support. ukip has abstained on these two amendments and the final vote because, although we do not support any eu state aid laws because it should be up to national governments to decide on subsidy levels, giving greater flexibility to member states and lengthening this period is beneficial and much more democratically accountable, putting power back in to the hands of governments to make these decisions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on state aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines. coal has been exempted from state aid rules for a total of 35 years. the commission has proposed an end to this exemption, which would allow state aid only to coal mines that are slated for closure by 2014. any coal mine that does not close by that date must pay back state aid and all countries giving state aid must provide a climate change mitigation plan. germany plans to close uncompetitive mines by 2018 and the rapporteur has proposed an amendment to extend the proposal to 2018. it seemed to me reasonable to support his proposal.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2009. the strengthening of parliamentary oversight is vital to ensure that eu development funds are put to best use and contribute effectively to achieving the millennium development goals. the assembly has played, and continues to play, a key role in monitoring the negotiations on economic partnership agreements (epas), allowing meps to hear first hand the concerns of the acp parliamentarians and thus contributing to greater european parliament oversight of the commission’s negotiations and implementation of epas.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report on the stockholm program, which stresses the need to ensure mutual recognition of official documents issued by national administrations. this will include same-sex unions, meaning that partners in same-sex unions can act as next of kin in case of accidents abroad and, where appropriate, have equal rights to tax benefits while living or working in another member state.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, let us be honest. negotiations on next year’s budget collapsed due to this parliament’s ambition to acquire more power over the financing of the european union, even though those powers are not provided for in the lisbon treaty. such a demand – which translates into the proposal for a european tax – is, and has always been, unacceptable to us. there have been threats to block funding to the member states which refuse to agree to parliament’s demands. believe me, this would be the best news we could give to british and all european taxpayers – those who eventually fund both national contributions and a european tax. the auditors have refused to clear 92% of the european union’s expenditure for 2009, and they estimate that at least gbp 6 billion should not have been paid out – a similar amount to that of last year, which has not yet been recovered. blocking funding for those who used eu money irregularly would give the european union enough resources to cover the noble causes that it claims it wants to support. at the same time, it would also give the european bureaucracy a certain degree of credibility. but this, i fear, will never happen.
mr president, this weekend a delegation from the commission and the imf went to dublin to give economic advice. another european country has yet again had to come up with a new national budget, and for our friends across the irish sea it is an extremely difficult time. there is of course a deep irony in european officials opining on a national budget, when the eu’s own budget is not yet agreed. for many months my group has warned that with member states facing such budget pressures at home, it is vital that the eu show restraint in its own spending, ensuring that every penny of taxpayers’ money is well spent. the last vote in the european parliament did not show such restraint, and it is of course a good sign that there is now agreement on the numbers between parliament and the council, though i think we could have gone even lower. it is depressing, however, that despite agreeing the numbers, there is still no agreement on the budget. our markets are still far from stable; markets are nervous when there is uncertainty, and i would urge members of this parliament to put aside political ambitions and get a budget agreed.
mr president, i welcome this debate on the budget today. these are difficult times in member states and that is a reality that this house cannot ignore. from talking to my constituents it is clear that they believe that those vocalising the need for budget increases are divorced from their economic reality and furthermore the whole issue is eroding confidence in european institutions. the failure to agree a budget is not due to intransigence, but is largely due to the federalist agenda and the pursuit of that holy grail, the concept of own resources. an eu tax is out of the question in my view. in response to president barroso’s declaration today that he will bring forward proposals for such a tax before june of next year, i would call on prime minister cameron to clearly state that any move in this direction would trigger a referendum in the united kingdom.
mr president, the commission’s programme contains some worthy priorities: sustaining economic growth, preserving and creating jobs, improving energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources. the snp scottish government, our pro-european nationalist government, shares these objectives and is making the maximum use of its devolved, limited power and is achieving progress on other challenges as well. the european free alliance group here, which includes the snp as well as other pro-european nationalists from wales, catalonia and flanders, are contributing to good government in our own countries, but our ambition is to play a full part in eu decision-making too, taking our place as normal independent member states so that we can exercise the full range of governmental powers at home and work constructively here with colleagues towards a better europe as well.
mr president, reading the commission work programme for 2011 one principal point stands out: use of the crisis to grab power for the commission. coordination of economic and fiscal policies, broader and enhanced surveillance of fiscal policies, better coordination of macroeconomic policy and, more chillingly, new enforcement mechanisms. we have heard that this will produce smart, sustainable and inclusive growth but if we look at the commission’s europe 2020 document it is disarmingly frank: 23 million unemployed, 4% fall in gdp in 2009. as long as we embrace globalism we shall not dig ourselves out of the crisis. the 2020 document refers to member states being the most innovative in the world, but if emerging low-wage economics are able to steal inventions with impunity innovation will not help us. we must protect our economies from piratical and slave-labour economies. 2020 refers to the people of europe as talented and creative; perhaps we should follow demographic policies that foster those talents and protect and preserve that creativity.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0563/2010). the following questions are addressed to the commission. question 17 by georgios papanikolaou (h-0515/10) subject: young people in precarious employment as the commission notes in its communication 'youth on the move', young people are often trapped in a chain of temporary employment contracts that reduces their chances of moving on to more stable contracts and exacerbates their job insecurity. the problem is even more acute in member states where labour law is particularly protectionist. can the commission answer the following questions: does it believe that the often doubtful quality and uncontrolled duration of traineeships exacerbate this problem? will it take specific action as part of the objectives set in the europe 2020 strategy and the youth on the move programme to support youth employment and strengthen their job security? will the commission pursue specific and even more targeted policies to promote and strengthen youth employment in those member states that are facing an economic recession?
question 18 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0527/10) subject: enhancing competitiveness through alternative energies it is the objective of the commission, and of us all, to guarantee our fellow citizens a comfortable and secure standard of living within a framework that fosters the competitiveness of european companies. use of alternative energy sources is one solution that can help improve the competitiveness of production. unfortunately, few countries can boast impressive figures in this field, and these are mostly in the north of europe. the spread of technologies using alternative energy sources is slow in the new member states, particularly in the east. what incentives and promotional measures has the commission taken, or does it intend to take, to target member states that make little use of alternative energies or in which this technology is slow to spread, so that these countries and the european union as a whole become more competitive on a global scale?
question 19 by kinga göncz (h-0546/10) subject: structural funds and disability many reports on the use of the structural funds show that, even if resources reach those who need them most, this is not done in the manner that would be most beneficial for them or in such a way as to bring about a genuine improvement in the quality of their lives. how does the commission plan to prevent the structural funds being used to finance the institutionalisation of people with disabilities? how does it plan to encourage their use to finance community-based alternatives to institutional care and promote the social inclusion of people with disabilities?
question 20 by gay mitchell (h-0530/10) subject: anglo irish bank commissioner almunia in a statement on the irish financial sector said that there were 'a number of important aspects that still needed to be clarified' in relation to anglo irish bank. will the commission explain what these important issues are?
question 21 by georgios papastamkos (h-0519/10) subject: creating a common european conscience the creation of a common european conscience among eu citizens is vital if the enterprise of european unification is to survive. given that mobility among those working in the cultural and arts sectors is the most effective way of forging a common european identity, what specific measures will the commission take to encourage exchanges of experience and knowledge among european artists, establish a funding programme solely for artistic events in the eu and promote the administrative streamlining and financial support of cross-border artistic cooperation programmes?
question 22 by iva zanicchi (h-0522/10) subject: structured dialogue between the eu and sporting federations on matters of shared interest and possible specific measures following the ratification of the treaty of lisbon and the recognition of the special nature of sport, the way is now open for giving sport a truly european dimension. new provisions allow the european union to support, coordinate and integrate the actions of the member states, promoting fairness and openness in sporting competitions and cooperation between bodies responsible for sports. the treaty also recognises the importance of protecting the physical and moral integrity of sportspeople, especially young people. in the light of the treaty provisions, what steps does the commission expect international sporting federations to take with a view to launching an ever more fruitful dialogue on matters of shared interest? what specific measures will the commission take to support this dialogue and to make full use of the powers relating to sport laid down in the treaty?
question 27 by konstantinos poupakis (h-0514/10) subject: tax burden in greece by signing the memorandum of understanding, greece has placed itself at the forefront in europe when it comes to basic taxation, with the result that greece now has the third highest rate of vat, the third highest tax on fuel, the third highest rate of social security contributions and one of the highest rates of business taxation and nominal taxes. the imposition of this tax burden in greece, combined with parallel cuts in salaries and pensions, is not leading to the anticipated increase in revenue. on the contrary, it is worsening the recession and stifling the market, increasing the level of poverty, particularly with regard to basic needs, making it difficult for wage earners and pensioners to meet their living expenses and leading to the closure of hundreds of businesses. given that the eu's objective is to guarantee both fiscal consolidation and social adequacy, how does the commission, as a party to the memorandum of understanding, assess the above fiscal measures?
question 28 by jim higgins (h-0521/10) subject: fraud and customs losses due to cigarrette smuggling is the commission concerned that there is an alarming level of smuggling of illegal cigarettes into countries like ireland from third countries? the effect of this is that the eu is losing out on customs revenue, which is an important source of finance, given that it makes up 15% of the eu budget. member states are also losing out on excise duties. does the commission have any plans to enable, or indeed force, member states to increase their checks at external eu borders, in order to tackle the issue of customs fraud?
question 29 by marian harkin (h-0524/10) subject: common consolidated corporate tax base can the commission say what its current proposals are on the adoption of a common consolidated corporate tax base, indicate a proposed time frame and outline its reasons for pursuing this policy? question 30 by seán kelly (h-0538/10) subject: ireland's corporation tax rate there is a considerable amount of speculation ongoing in international media so it would provide a welcome signal to international markets in a time of crisis that this key element of ireland’s economic model will not be affected in any way by any proposal by the commission. can the commission outline clearly and unequivocally that the eu will not bring forward any measures that have any influence on ireland’s corporation tax rate? question 31 by pat the cope gallagher (h-0552/10) subject: common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) can the commission make a statement confirming that the proposed ccctb initiative will not impact upon the ability of member states to set their individual corporation tax rate?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.35 and resumed at 21.00)
the next item is the statements on measures to be taken to free nobel peace prize laureate liu xiaobo.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, tonight we in the socialist and democrat group give our full support to this european parliament demand that liu xiaobo is allowed to go to oslo, and does not earn a different prize as the first laureate or laureate’s representative in its one hundred year history to be unable to be present to receive the nobel peace prize. arrested for taking part in demonstrations, banned from teaching, sent for re-education and now imprisoned for seeking to exercise freedom of expression, the chinese called liu xiaobo a criminal whilst the rest of the world awards him the accolade for peace. i went to china personally on behalf of this house and saw that there are people ready to enter into dialogue with us on issues of labour rights and corporate social responsibility. but the fact remains that, when this parliament’s human rights subcommittee sought visas from china, no reply was ever given; and when the eu pressed for a meeting of our human rights dialogue with china, the chinese deliberately offered a date between christmas this year and the new year. it now looks almost certain that there will not be a meeting under this presidency. this is not serious. all who wish to express solidarity tonight with liu, his wife liu xia and all prisoners of conscience in china should recognise that the rest of the world has too often put trade interests with china before our mutual obligations on human rights. this is exemplified by british prime minister david cameron, who this month took a 48-strong trade delegation to beijing but failed to include anyone to represent an interest or expertise in poverty reduction, environmental degradation or labour rights. the truth is that five socially-conscious individuals who make up the awards committee in norway have arguably done more than this european union, the us or the rest of the international community to put pressure on the chinese government to reform. let us remember that andre sakharov, lech wałęsa and nelson mandela were all nobel laureates who once lived in repressive countries which were ultimately transformed, and tonight express our hope that liu xiaobo may join this list not simply in the china of today but in a china where human rights are fully respected one day in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this debate in a sense catalyses several years of effort by many members who are present here, and others, to try and focus attention on the real china. the sense of unity being displayed by council and commission and by the diplomatic representatives in oslo, concerning the ceremony which may take place on 10 december, is encouraging. of course we hope that liu xiaobo will be present, but it is unlikely. what we have seen in the last few weeks, in diplomatic terms, is a car crash organised by beijing. it is one of the most disastrous, cack-handed episodes in the history of diplomacy. but at the heart of this lies the clash between the free world and what remains a dictatorship. on my last visit to beijing, all the people with whom i had contact were subsequently arrested, imprisoned and in some cases tortured. there are between seven and eight million people imprisoned across china, there are at least 5 000 executions a year. i have seen a list of more than 3 400 people who in the last 10 years have died under torture in that regime for their religious convictions. in sum, this is a terror state. we want to congratulate the nobel peace prize committee for its courage in making this award. i hope that in oslo, on 10 december, should the ceremony take place, we have the most muscular presence on behalf of the european union, standing by its foreign policy priorities of human rights and democracy. the world’s most populous country deserves what we enjoy in europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, it is hard for us to imagine the sheer physical and moral courage required by mr liu to stand up against the murderous tyranny of the chinese communist party. those of us who enjoy the most basic freedoms of free speech and free assembly and democratic politics have a duty to speak out on behalf of mr liu and those like him. mr liu wants nothing more for china than those basic freedoms and civil rights that we take for granted. the values that he espouses are the best hope for freedom, peace and democracy for china and the world and it is fitting that he has been awarded the nobel peace prize in recognition of his efforts and his sacrifices. he wants nothing more than democratic reforms and the end of one-party communist rule in china. it should surprise no one that the chinese communist party prevents him or his family representative from collecting the award. the chinese communist party is a party of murderous gangsters than has no more purpose than the continuation of its own existence. china is a big and powerful country and it is inevitable that our governments must maintain political, diplomatic and trading relations with them. the chinese communist party warns foreign governments not to attend the ceremony. our governments should send representatives and show their and our support for mr liu and the chinese democracy movement as a whole. i represent many chinese exiles in london and i am pleased to offer what small support i can by speaking out on behalf of mr liu and their democratic aspirations.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on cap simplification by james nicholson, janusz wojciechowski, on behalf of the ecr group, albert deß, on behalf of the ppe group, and george lyon, on behalf of the alde group (o-0187/2010 – b7-0566/2010).
author. − madam president, commissioner, it is good to see you here with us to tonight. clearly simplification and stripping out the bureaucracy from the cap is a key objective of the next reform, because certainly back in scotland many farmers are frustrated and angry about the bureaucracy and the disproportionate nature of the penalty system. public money has to be spent wisely and properly audited, and we do not dispute that whatsoever, but there is a lack of proportionality in the current penalty system both at member state level and at farmer level as well. that is something that needs to be addressed in the reform. in scotland, farmers are currently being punished for small mistakes with very, very large fines in some instances. since may, the inspections have been ramped up and swingeing penalties are being handed out. the scottish government, i am afraid, blame you, commissioner, for that particular measure – for the ramping up of the inspections and the penalty systems. another explanation, however, might be that the european commission auditors were due to come and inspect scotland both in october and last week in november. it may well be that the scottish government were panicking slightly and that the huge fines and draconian penalties that have been put in place in the last three or four months are the response to worries that all might not be well when the auditors arrived in scotland and carried out their inspection. they have also looked across the water to our colleagues in northern ireland – i am sure my colleague, jim nicholson, might say one or two words about that – and looked at the fate of the government there which is facing a huge fine for the misinterpretation of eligible lands. that may well lie behind the measures taken in scotland. commissioner, in your wind-up speech, can you clarify if it is indeed you that is behind and is responsible for the new draconian regime in scotland, and can you confirm when we will know the outcome of the auditors’ inspections that have taken place in october and november of this year?
author. − madam president, i would like to apologise, because it is not normal that i do not turn up when i am supposed to speak. i apologise most profusely for that. the house will be aware that my colleague mr ashworth’s report on simplification of the cap was adopted in this house last may. it advocated the removal of unnecessary red tape and bureaucracy imposed upon european farmers which, in my opinion, has become over-burdensome and seriously impinges upon the time that they would rather spend actually farming. one central feature of this report was that a reformed cap should be simplified and the policy streamlined. i fear, however, that what we are getting is not that. we are going to get more bureaucracy, more red tape – and when you talk about greening the first pillar, what do you mean? you mean more bureaucracy and red tape; more paperwork for the farmer and more inspections, which is what they do not want. we want one inspection of every farm; that should be enough anywhere to inspect. i have to say to the commissioner, you have enough tools in the box at the moment with cross-compliance: we do not need more. we do not need any more over-emphasis on this particular position. i am appealing to you on behalf of the people who are trying to produce the food. we talk about food security in europe; if you want food security, we are giving it to you – we are giving you food safety. let the farmers produce the food. can i comment on what mr lyon just said? my farmers in northern ireland are facing a reduction of eur 60 million because of mapping. no one would argue that the maps that were created many years ago are totally perfect. but no one will tell me that, south of the border from me in the republic of ireland, the maps are any better, or that they are any better in italy – maps that were created years ago. why are we having this? why are we having these draconian measures placed upon our farmers when they do not need it or want it, and when all they want to do is produce good food?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, on behalf of the green/efa group, i congratulate the commissioner for coming here this evening and i congratulate colleagues, and mr ashworth in particular, for the original resolution which has spurred tonight’s discussion. commissioner, i would refer you in particular to paragraphs 52 and 53 of the original resolution on transparency of penalities. i think that domestic mischief-making aside, we do have a difficulty across scotland, and across the eu as a whole, in how our farmers perceive the transparency of enforcement, particularly of cross-compliance. i think that going forward, we need a far greater degree of clarity in terms of what is required and expected of farmers and what the consequences of non-compliance are. going forward as well, we also need to see a greater degree of understanding, a greater degree of flexibility. much as i appreciate that you have to deal with the regulations as they are written, we are here to rewrite the regulations – and that is what we are looking forward to doing. there is a world of difference between accident and fraud and presently, as things are implied, farmers are treated more or less the same way in either case, when there is a world of difference in the real world as to how that works. on paragraph 66, in particular, going forward i would be very grateful for an indication from you, commissioner, of how you view the call from us for a three-year moratorium on eid – electronic identification of sheep – cross-compliance penalties. we in scotland are trying to make the technology work, but it is very far from perfect and it would just rub an awful lot of salt into an existing wound to see a non-proportionate approach taken in the cross-compliance of the eid regulations. we are trying to make it work and we have heard you will flexible. i would be grateful for a reassurance tonight that that will be the case.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i wrote the original report. in that report, i talked about the challenges confronting agriculture and highlighted the ways in which the common agricultural policy is going to have to change in order to meet those challenges. in the report, i drew attention to the fact that many sectors of farming, and the livestock sector in particular, are experiencing real financial hardship at this time, and there is now an urgent need to lower the burden, both in terms of time and cost, imposed on farmers by unnecessary and disproportionate regulation from the common agricultural policy. i gave many examples of cases where regulation and penalties are disproportionate – even unfair in many cases. i talked of the need for impact assessments, of the need for more harmonisation of inspection standards, and i suggested that there is no reason why self-regulation could not be successfully used in agriculture. above all, i call for a change in the common agricultural policy culture. of course i understand the need for financial integrity, but the court of auditors made it perfectly clear that over-complication has very often been the cause of the problem, and likewise i certainly understand that management and interpretation of regulations varies far too much from one nation to another. since writing the report, i have been heartened to notice that a number of national governments, as well as leading agricultural organisations, have called for simplification of the common agricultural policy. surely, commissioner, now that we are negotiating common agricultural policy reform there has never been a better time to prove that we can help the industry and not hinder it with unnecessary red tape and unnecessary costs. whilst i understand perfectly the advances you have made and i am grateful for that, i am dismayed that this is not being communicated at the farm gate back in the country where i come from.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the thrust of the cap reform report largely outlines measures illustrated under option 2. i imagine this is the commission’s favoured approach. i have concerns about the lack of clarity and the timescale for approval. will we be expected to decide the best option for the cap before a refinement of proposals? i fear heavier bureaucratic burdens for farmers, despite the report calling for a simpler, more specific support scheme including simplification of cross-compliance rules. the report focuses on small and active farms, without defining how size and activity may be measured and monitored. the report states that the two pillars of the common agricultural policy should focus on efficiency, but i fear incentivising small farms while rewarding environmental development could see domestic farmers move away from production-focused farming in order to benefit from the cap. i am concerned that, despite the report recognising long-term food security and growing global demand, our agricultural competitiveness will be squeezed. the report talks about enhancing europe’s latent productivity potential, while respecting eu commitments in international trade. it observes that the share of agriculture in the food supply chain decreased, while the share of the wholesale and distribution sectors increased. bilateral agreements with mercosur, including agriculture re-importation, could undermine the capacity for european farmers to trade at a fair market price. the report admits that european farmers face global competition, while having to respect environmental, food safety, quality and welfare objectives. yet some south american farmers exploit deforestation and are able to mass-produce and then outprice european farmers due to less stringent regulation.
madam president, i welcome this oral question and the focused return to a very important issue. over the past few months, i have carried out a number of rural meetings across northern ireland. at each event i asked farmers to identify the main areas of change that are needed within the sector. of huge importance was the need to reduce red tape, which is seen as both adding unnecessary cost and taking up valuable time. the level of paperwork and the complexity of the detail needed is creating a huge burden on farmers and increasing fears of penalties. i also recently met with the chairs of local groups who are implementing the rural development programme in northern ireland. they firmly blame the heavy and bureaucratic nature of the audit requirements as a reason for the high levels of drop-out. i, like you commissioner, believe that there is a need for accountability of how we spend taxpayers’ money, but this bureaucratic burden is hindering the programme and the very people it was intended to help.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – let me pose a simply question. why is there a common agricultural policy at all? europe has an abundance of fertile agricultural land. we still have farmers willing and able to produce food. europe and the world has an abundance of people who need to buy food. the mechanism of the market if left to itself would meet the needs of supply and demand at competitive prices. the cap is an artificial, expensive and unnecessary burden on farmers and consumers. let me suggest the easiest simplification of all: abolish the cap!
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the situation in the beekeeping sector by paolo de castro, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0119/2010 – b7-0564/2010).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i will be brief, although i do think mrs lulling’s idea of cross-pollinating speaking time across the groups is certainly one to be further considered. i will echo comments about the beekeeping sector, but i would remind colleagues that the wild bumble bee population across europe is also in a similar – and very grave – situation. they are just as important for biodiversity and the pollination benefits that we have heard of – very correctly – about the honey bee sector. i would pay tribute to the work of the bumblebee conservation trust in scotland, covering the bumble bee population across the uk. commissioner, i would pick up on question 4 – an excellent question – suggesting that the commission bring bee diseases into the veterinary policy. this has been a long-standing call of this parliament, and it strikes me that this is not just about doling out money but about sharing best practice and knowledge across the union. a lot of scientists in a lot of places are working on this, and the commission could play a very powerful role in pooling that information and working out how much we know about this connected and very serious problem.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we are all aware of the importance of bees in pollination. they are absolutely crucial to agriculture and food production. indeed, without them there is no food production. it is therefore very worrying that the beekeeping sector continues to report that the mortality rates are astonishingly high. although i feel that we have been successful in raising the awareness and communicating the severity of the situation over the years, we must maintain pressure to ensure that research into the cause of these mortality rates continues and remains well funded. only then can concrete steps be taken to address the problem. firstly, i wish to see that funding for research projects is maintained after 2012, and i would support the initiatives which encourage young beekeepers into the apiculture sector. we are, of course, entering a period of intense debate on the future of the cap, and i believe that this is a fundamental problem that should continue to be addressed in the context of a revised eu agricultural policy after 2013. in essence, support for the agriculture sector should be strengthened after 2013. i think we have an opportunity to do something positive. let us support the bees.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the problem with this report on the diminishing bee population is that there is a real tragedy here. however, having examined this document i find that the proposals being put to this house are a classic example of what is known in this building as a ‘beneficial crisis’. beneficial, that is, for the eu with proposals constructed on the basis of extending eu control over a wider and wider area. no change there then. the cap features in passing in this report, but there is no mention of the destructive effect of the imposition of that policy in my country. i am thinking here of the nature of hedgerows and the working of fields and orchards, the management of which has been seriously interfered with by eu legislation, to the detriment of bees in britain. the report admits that it cannot identify the prime cause for the drop in bee numbers, and so cites a large number of possibilities. it lists bee disease, bees’ weakened immunity to pathogens and parasites, climate change – you could bet that one would be in here – and the disappearance of mellifluous flora. the possible deleterious effect of genetically modified plants is grudgingly admitted, but dismissed as insignificant – you could have bet on that being here, too. in truth, these are all guesses. the one constant in all this is the presence of the varroa mite which attacks the bees’ immune system and is probably the root cause of this whole problem. but no, the plight of bees is used as an excuse to introduce a whole host of regulations calling amongst other things for cooperation between beekeepers’ associations from member states, tighter controls on the importation of honey, increased labelling requirements – hardly designed to stop the bees dying, surely – product authorisation, whatever that is, and a move to recruit young beekeepers. amazing. whilst all this is taking place, the varroa mite continues its pernicious work and bees die. no doubt well intentioned, this report needs to be reduced to identifying and eliminating whatever it is that is killing our bees, and to allow the international community to deal with it, not to serve as an excuse for more and more and more eu regulation.
on behalf of the ni group. – madam president, this has been an important, and indeed passionate, discussion on this particular subject. i am glad to see it and to be able to take part in it. i believe that the importance of bees within agriculture, in broad terms, is generally undervalued, even within the sector itself. without bees, many crops would fail. of course orchards are particularly reliant on bees for pollination. i recently visited a number of orchard owners in northern ireland who have suffered from the declining bee population and indeed voiced their concern over it. i agree that bee diseases should be highlighted in eu veterinary policy, both to highlight the importance of bees and also to have a policy and to monitor the population across europe. money must be invested in research and development into the diminishing bee population and funding must be made available to schemes which can help. i believe that a balanced view of the decline of the bee population must be taken into consideration, not just blaming farming practices but investing in investigation into diseases and ways of minimising their impact.
madam president, we have heard a lot this evening about the wonder of bees – indeed, they are truly wonderful creatures. i would just like to concentrate on one issue. is the commissioner aware of the interest and involvement that bees have sparked and inspired across europe? in the uk alone, we have many prominent uk organisations with campaigns – from the women’s institute to the cooperative society. the information campaign is there. it just needs to be picked up on. please take a look at the women’s institute campaign, which i have sent you details of. it is full of practical information for anybody who wants to help bees thrive. the women’s institute represents millions of ordinary people in the uk. the plight of the bee offers a possibly unique opportunity to work with citizens. it covers the common agricultural policy, biodiversity, food security, pesticide use, veterinary regulations, and even the labyrinthine way of funding through the eu. it is a very unique opportunity to engage with organisations that are already inspired to work. i would ask the commissioner to take that opportunity and run with it.
madam president, i speak not only as a concerned mep representing an area of england where beekeeping has economic significance, but specifically as the vice-president of the cambridge beekeepers’ association. we have heard from all our speakers tonight about the significance and importance of this sector. honey bees are of great economic significance and ecological importance – we all appreciate that. existing diseases are not fully understood, and problems such as colony collapse disorder are as yet unexplained and unresolved. the uk is losing its bee population at around 30% a year, and this is clearly unsustainable and potentially devastating. like many other speakers i really want to focus on the most pressing aspect of this issue, the urgent need for more research: both to shed light on disease issues in bee colonies and to provide us with some more concrete ideas on the way forward. we need to find long-term effective solutions to this pressing issue. could i call on the commission to sponsor, through the framework programmes perhaps, some additional and specific research, not only on the causes of hive collapse but also on possible remedies?
i have received one motion for resolution see minutes tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday (25 november 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the views expressed by herr schulz meet the case. he is an undemocratic fascist.
mr president, in the event that the commission gets the economic governance which it is seeking and which you are seeking for it, is it then your contention, mr verhofstadt, that the commission would always make the right decisions?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, for once the two main topics being discussed by the european council and the media back in my welsh constituency are one and the same. firstly, how will the eu cope with the situation in ireland and secondly, how to resolve the impasse of the eu budget. in wales we fully appreciate the eu funds received and all my constituents appreciate the need for a stable euro zone. however, the differences between the way the two topics are discussed in cardiff and in brussels are pronounced. in brussels within the european parliament, we take the two issues and discuss them separately. the european parliament’s response and that of the council to save the euro is that we need improved economic governance, more rules for national governments and enforcement via fines and sanctions. in cardiff, my capital city – and i am sure in dublin – while for the budget we conclude that there is a need for member states to stop being selfish and put more europe over the needs of their own countries, it all comes back to how and where taxpayers’ money should be spent. people know that austerity packages are necessary. they are told just how indebted their countries are every day. they know tough decisions have to be made, but they also want to decide how their hard earned money gets spent. being asked to give up even more money to funding eu projects through an increased eu budget at a time when they are being asked to give up a slice of their public sector pensions, or even in some cases basic welfare provisions that they have come to depend on, is for many constituents a step too far. when the eu itself recognises that it has not done a good enough job at enforcing its own rules and standards within the euro zone, it hardly gives citizens much incentive to give it even more money. during these times of strict public spending, and as we review rules on economic governance for member states, we within the european parliament need to respect the pressures that member states are under and accept that all non-urgent projects of eu institutions should be deferred to allow the setting of an eu budget that reflects our troubled economic times. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, does the speaker appreciate that the so-called eu funds which she referred to as having been received by her constituents are simply the uk’s own money being returned, but being returned only in part and after the european union has skimmed off its croupier’s share? does the lady appreciate or understand that?
mr president, as the gentleman knows, i fully appreciate where the money comes from and who the net payers are to the eu budget. however, my constituents in wales just see that they get investment in crucial projects when they actually have a gdp lower than any other region in the uk. so i will defend the eu’s spend in my constituency every day.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, mr van rompuy has been in office for one year, and in that time the whole edifice is beginning to crumble. there is chaos. the money is running out. i should thank mr van rompuy. he should perhaps be the pin-up boy of the eurosceptic movement. but just look around this chamber this morning, mr van rompuy. just look at these faces. look at the fear. look at the anger. poor old barroso here looks like he has seen a ghost! you know, they are beginning to understand that the game is up and yet, in their desperation to preserve their dream, they want to remove any remaining traces of democracy from the system. it is pretty clear that none of you have learned anything. when you yourself, mr van rompuy, say that the euro has brought us stability, i suppose i could applaud you for having a sense of humour. but is this not really just the bunker mentality? your fanaticism is out in the open. you talked about the fact that it was a lie to believe that the nation state could exist in the 21st-century globalised world. well, that may be true in the case of belgium – which has not had a government for six months – but for the rest of us, right across every member state in this union (and perhaps this is why we see the fear in the faces), people are increasingly saying: ‘we don’t want that flag, we don’t want the anthem, we don’t want this political class, we want the whole thing consigned to the dustbin of history’. we had the greek tragedy earlier on this year, and now we have the situation in ireland. i know that the stupidity and greed of irish politicians has a lot to do with this. they should never have joined the euro. they suffered with low interest rates, a false boom and a massive bust. but look at your response to them. what they are being told, as their government is collapsing, is that it would be inappropriate for them to have a general election. in fact, commissioner rehn here said they had to agree their budget first before they would be allowed to have a general election. just who the hell do you people think you are? you are very dangerous people indeed. your obsession with creating this euro-state means that you are happy to destroy democracy. you appear to be happy for millions of people to be unemployed and to be poor. untold millions must suffer so that your euro-dream can continue. well it will not work, because it is portugal next. with their debt levels of 325% of gdp, they are the next ones on the list. after that, i suspect it will be spain. the bailout for spain would be seven times the size of ireland’s, and at that moment, all the bailout money will have gone. there will not be any more. but it is even more serious than economics, because if you rob people of their identity, if you rob them of their democracy, then all they are left with is nationalism and violence. i can only hope and pray that the euro project is destroyed by the markets before that really happens.
mr president, i am sure one thing we can all agree on is that heads of state and government are extremely busy men and women. i find it extremely puzzling, therefore, that they come together every three months or so and waste a tremendous amount of time and money to decide very little in the face of a crisis which is doubly underlined by what has just happened in ireland. just look at the idea of a financial transaction tax. it was on the agenda of the march summit, the june summit and the october summit, with each council batting it on to the next council. it has now been batted on to the december council and presumably beyond that, way on into the future. we urgently need a leap forward in economic governance; we need vision and action, mutual solidarity and close coordination. but instead, all we are getting is confusion, hesitation and mutual mistrust, which leads to permanent instability instead of stability. some things are clear. first, a further tightening of the stability and growth pact will not be enough. worse still, there is a considerable danger that the new system as proposed will end up being procyclical and therefore counterproductive for growth and jobs. second, economic and monetary union needs to be made far more effective through truly balanced and effective economic policy coordination, not just surveillance and sanctioning. third, in one way or another, there needs to be a system of common debt management for at least a share of public debt – maybe up to 60% of gdp. the economic benefits of such a system of eurobonds are huge and clear. president van rompuy, you are on record as having said that you are not fond of politicians with a vision. i think you prefer practical action: i understand that. but i think you can now begin to move to bring the two together. i hope the path is clear and that the ftt and a balanced system of economic policy coordination are beyond mere surveillance and common debt management. i think it is time, president van rompuy, for vision and action.
mr president, this is a debate about economic governance. across europe many countries, including my own, face difficult economic times. this weekend, the eu and the uk extended support to our friends across the irish sea. this is not a time for the european parliament to indulge in name-calling or finger-pointing, but it is a time for learning from our mistakes and making better decisions in the future. last week, in the middle of november, greece amended its december year-end accounts for the third time. i hope we have finally drawn a line under those accounts. if there was ever a good reason for countries to ensure better accounting and forecasting, that was it. the european council has gone a long way in their detailed plans for sharing of information during the european semester. it needs to be put into practice. yes, we should share good practice between different countries, but also recognise that not all countries are the same and good economic governance can be achieved in different ways but for the benefit of all.
a uachtaráin, agus an imf, an banc ceannais eorpach agus an coimisiún ag teacht isteach le coinníollacha troma, is léir go bhfuil na billiúin euro de chiorruithe á dtabhairt isteach in éirinn. caillfear poist, beidh laghdú suntasach ar sheirbhísí poiblí, agus ardófar cáin ioncaim do na daoine atá ar phá íseal. coinneoidh na bainc an brabús atá acu agus is iad na bochtáin, daoine breoite, pinsinéirí agus grúpaí leochaileacha eile a bheas thíos leis seo ar fad. ní cabhair ón eoraip í seo agus, mar sin de, cuirfimid go tréan ina héadan. in ionad sainordú a lorg chun na ciorruithe seo a thabhairt isteach, i ndiaidh don imf agus don ae iniúchadh a dhéanamh ar na leabhair chuntais, bheartaigh rialtas na héireann nach mbeadh toghchán ann go dtí go mbeadh an buiséad seo achtaithe. bhí treo eile ann, agus roghnaigh rialtas na héireann gan dul sa treo sin. bheartaigh siad ar fheidhmiú le leas a gcairde féin sna bainc agus chan ar mhaithe le gnáthmhuintir na héireann.
mr president, the european council repeated the tired old slogan of the need to avoid all forms of protectionism and to avoid exchange rate moves aimed at competitive advantage. the embrace by the european union of globalism has made european countries prey to competition from emerging economies, especially china, with which we cannot compete. these economies show contempt for international patents and copyrights, they employ workers at subsistence, and sometimes slave labour, rates. china has set its currency at an artificially low level to make its goods cheaper still. european countries must individually – my preference – or collectively protect their employers and employees from this unfair competition. while exchange rates should not be pegged at an artificially low level for competitive advantage, nor should they be kept at an artificially common level – the euro – to the collective disadvantage of euro zone countries. if currencies of failing countries had been allowed to fall in value, recovery would have followed.
mr president, i would just like to make a few comments regarding what was said this morning by both president van rompuy and president barroso. it would appear that they are both in denial – denial of the fact that the euro zone is in crisis and we are now on the brink of collapse. there are many people over there also in denial. for goodness sake, wake up. people are watching this from their homelands and they realise that there are not many people in this chamber anyway. this is the biggest crisis that you have ever had, and i am telling you now that this is serious. i will ask mr barroso and mr van rompuy to tell me please – you are speaking in a couple of minutes – what is your plan b? there must be a plan b, or are you just going to let this go until it goes into ruin? i believe this is the biggest crisis that we have had. member states have been affected across the spectrum. you owe it to the people to have a plan b. please tell us if you have got one.
first of all, following an incident this morning in the chamber, mr schulz wishes to make a personal statement.
the incident referred to was a protest by mr bloom, in which he addressed wartime allusions to mr schulz. the president said this was unacceptable and invited mr bloom to apologise. mr bloom did not apologise then. i call on him now to do so. if he does not do so, he must leave the chamber. (loud applause)
mr president, yet again there is one rule for herr schulz and one rule for everybody else. this is a disgrace. i have been elected – re-elected –to vote in this chamber by the people of yorkshire (your own constituency, i might add), with a democratic mandate which you yourself do not enjoy, mr president, because you switched parties and they voted for the conservatives. i have no intention of apologising, i have no intention of leaving this chamber: you must have me escorted out, sir!
mr bloom, first of all i was expelled by the conservative party for making a stand on a point of principle closely related to the issues you raised this morning. (applause)secondly, you have not apologised for language which was wholly inappropriate to the european parliament, and i ask you to leave. (loud applause, and also shouts of ‘point of order’ and ‘you are wrong’)mr bloom, i am sorry but i am not taking any points of order on this. i have a proposal to make. i can ask the security services to remove mr bloom, but i intend to put it to the vote. is it the wish of the house that mr bloom should leave? those in favour please raise your hands. (loud protests and cries of ‘no!’ from the efd)those who wish mr bloom to stay please raise your hands. those abstaining. (further loud protests from the efd and replies of ‘be quiet!’ further prolonged noise and whistles)i will accept one statement from mr farage, the leader of this group.
mr president, the reason for the anger and the noise is because we are not actually applying the rules of this place evenly. mr schulz has repeatedly thrown insults not just at me, but at many members of this house: he said that the eurosceptics and the no-voters open the door to fascism. we have had danny cohn-bendit calling us mentally ill. mr president, if the rules are that something is deemed to be an insult and a member is asked to leave, that is fair enough. but the anger – and i share that anger – is because these rules are not applied evenly. mr schulz regularly calls other people fascists, and when he is called one, the member in question is asked to leave. that is not right. that is not fair.
mr farage, i do not want to prolong this, but can i just make the observation that this is incorrect. mr bloom’s two interventions – one from the floor and one from his place – were both heard by many people and were both unacceptable in parliamentary terms. the house wants mr bloom to leave. that is its expression. if he does not do so, people will infer from that his attitude towards the democratic process. mr bloom, i am going to invoke rule 152. if you will not leave, i will have you removed. i have discussed this with the president, and i have his support for this. (interjection from mr bloom: ‘do your damnedest!’)
under rule 152(4) i regret that this incident is obstructing the good business of the house. i therefore intend to suspend the sitting for five minutes. (the sitting was suspended for five minutes)
point of order? (inaudible off-microphone comments and shouts of ‘point of order!).
thank you mr ehler. now just a minute please. just quieten down please. at the risk of being described myself as a fascist dictator i have taken certain actions this morning. but mr schulz has suggested i take one speaker from those who opposed mr bloom’s removal from the chamber. the first person to ask for the floor this morning was mr madlener. i have said to mr madlener that if he takes the floor i will repeat the remarks that mr bloom made directly to mr schulz. mr madlener you have the floor.
now – thank you. as i said, by agreement with mr schulz and mr madlener, i will now repeat the remarks made very audibly by mr bloom which were directed at mr schulz this morning and to which the president objected, and i object, and most of the house objects, when asked. mr bloom said to mr schulz: ‘ein volk, ein reich, ein führer’. those are unacceptable terms to use, by one member to another. they go far beyond what we would regard as acceptable in this house. that is an end to the matter. we will deal with it through the bureau. now i want to move to the vote, because i want to finish by 13.00.
no, sorry. please do not give the microphone to mr gollnisch. i have said to mr gollnisch that he can have the floor the next time the president is in the chair. thank you very much. mr salatto has asked for the floor.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, the restriction and, in some case the prescribing of alternative medicines, herbal remedies, higher-dose vitamin and mineral supplements has been one of great scandals of european regulation. i have no idea what the efficacy of these cures is. my wife swears by them, i am a little bit more sceptical but, as king solomon wisely says, it is better to have a dish of bitter herbs in a house where there is love than a stalled ox and hatred therewith. rarely could the proverb about the bitter herbs have applied quite so aptly as in this case. but whether they are useless or whether they are helpful, they are certainly not deleterious to health. so why did the european union criminalise an activity harmlessly pursued by some 20 million europeans? answer: lobbying by some large pharmaceutical corporations, which saw the opportunity to put small herbalists out of business – something that has now happened all over my constituency. they could never have got these rules through the national parliaments. once again, we see the way in which the brussels machinery has become a racket open to the big corporations.
mr claeys, this is not a point of order on the fjellner report and i am not going to allow you to carry on. i have said to mr gollnisch that he can make his point of order when the president is next in the chair, and that is what will happen.
mr president, last year when some of us held up placards saying ‘referendums’, mr watson said that our behaviour reminded him of national socialists in the german reichstag. mr schulz himself said that our behaviour put him in mind of adolf hitler. i see you are in a difficult… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr hannan, i can see where you are going with this. i have said that on these questions mr gollnisch has asked for a point of order. he will make that point of order when the president is present. that i think is the appropriate way of dealing with this. if you have nothing to say on the fjellner report i will move on to mr březina. i heard what you said. you said mr gollnisch does not speak for you. i shall report that to the house. mr gollnisch is a member of the non-attached group. the non-attached group is not a group, but he does speak for a significant component of it. i accept that, and that is why i have suggested that mr gollnisch makes his point of order when the president is present. i do not propose to allow you to speak, mr hannan, because if i allow you then everybody will want to have a say on this sensitive and important question, so i am sorry. we shall now move on to the explanations of vote on the evans report.
mr president, perhaps you would allow me to make the general point that in an open society, the right to free speech trumps the right not to be offended and in a democracy, the only people who should determine whether or not we sit and legislate in a chamber are our constituents. the removal of a member can materially affect the outcome. now, if we are going to be disinterested in our application of the rules, then we ought to censure obnoxious allusions whichever side they come from, but i think there is something arbitrary and unfair about allowing eurosceptics to be called nazis... (the president cut off the speaker)
no, mr hannan, you strayed from the general to the particular. mr kamall, on the evans report or else i will cut you off.
mr president, i have no doubt that you will try to cut me off, as usual when it comes to freedom of speech, but i really want to talk about the hazardous substances and toxicity. i think we all agree and, as a former electronic engineer, i know about the level of hazardous and toxic substances within this equipment. it is absolutely right that we are trying to tackle this issue. but i would also like to talk about the toxicity that has permeated the debate and democracy here in the european parliament today. surely when a german national, a socialist talks... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i assume that your finger will be hovering over the button. many people ask me what acta stands for, and i was one of the shadow rapporteurs on the anti-counterfeit trading agreement. i know after today some will wonder about our level of transparency, democracy and freedom of speech, but i want to focus on the five reasons why we disagreed with the resolution. i was very grateful to get the joint ppe/ecr resolution. firstly, it goes no further than the acquis communautaire. secondly, the commission has been transparent. thirdly, this is not negotiated at wto level, because china and india were against the agreement in the first place. fourthly, this does not affect generic medicines in transit across the eu, and finally, developing countries are free to join the acta agreement if they want to. they just have not chosen to do so. it is an open mechanism that countries can join if they want to. it is only a shame that we do not keep to the same principles of freedom of speech when it comes to this chamber.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal to transfer eur 13 022 500 from the esf to a budget line to give support to ireland following the severe flooding it suffered in november 2009.
in writing. − i supported mr watson’s recommendation and welcome the continuing cooperation between the eu and moldova.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the ec and moldova. although i have serious concerns about human rights in moldova, i was encouraged by recent amnesty international comments, in particular with regard to moldova’s october ratification of the rome statute of the international criminal court, which is a very positive step.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which is part of a package which will amend the current 2001 directive on medicinal products for human use. it specifically focuses on the provision of information to the public on prescription-only medicines. the stated aims of the directive are to allow for better access to information for patients and to clarify the rules, which are currently interpreted differently across the eu, leading to health inequalities. it also deals with information on the internet, which is not covered at present and is a particularly difficult topic, as it is so hard to regulate.
in writing. − it is important for patients to be better informed about any medications they are taking. it is important too that any information they receive is objective and that the pharmaceutical industry does not blur the line between information and advertising. the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) has done a good job in amending this proposal and i was able to support this report.
in writing. − the compromise negotiated by my colleague jill evans marks progress in this area of law. the legal certainty it provides will lead to improvements in environmental protection and i accordingly voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. the current restriction of hazardous substances directive restricts the use of six hazardous materials in the manufacturing of certain electronic and electrical equipment. it is intended to avoid toxic waste once this equipment is thrown away, to ensure that europe’s unwanted mobile phones, computers and fridges do not damage the environment or human health by the seepage of chemicals in landfills or by giving off toxic fumes at incineration. the directive is being simplified.
in writing. − i am disappointed that the resolution supported by my own group today was not adopted. the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) has the potential to have an extremely negative effect on civil liberties and today’s vote does nothing to diminish those fears.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta). acta is concerned with the enforcement of ip law at international level and concerns commercial copyright violations. this is a very delicate subject where we need to give rights holders adequate protection and a reasonable return on their investments without, on the other hand, infringing civil liberties, restricting access to medicine or criminalising individuals for trivial breaches of copyright. the right place to carry out this assessment is in the trade committee when it considers whether or not to give parliamentary assent to acta.
mr president, i am glad the commission’s 2020 energy strategy refers to the ongoing review concerning the impact of indirect land use change. it is vital the commission meets its obligation to come forward with a proposal on this by the end of this year, both to allay widespread public concern that some biofuels currently on the market may not be producing a net reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and also for the sake of industry which is developing innovative processes whose added value deserves to be recognised. on that question of energy certainty, i would also ask the commission to rethink its comments on the harmonisation of national support schemes for renewables. i am all for action at a european level when it adds value, but member states have only recently brought out their national renewable energy action plans and are working to implement them; this would be harmonisation too far.
mr president, i should like to say to the commissioner that the new energy strategy report ignores the elephant in the living room: peak oil. but at least the commission has at last woken up to this gigantic and immediate threat. the moment one recognises peak oil, the majority of this largely well-meaning report becomes, sadly, incinerator fuel. the huge energy gap opening up cannot possibly be filled by mickey mouse renewables or shale carbons. coal, nuclear fusion – and in the long term nuclear fusion plus fission – are the only energy sources dense enough to save us as the oil age comes to an end. commissioner, now that this has been recognised, can we look forward to a new, serious approach to energy? we must ditch all the nonsense about wind-power grids and global warming and concentrate on real scientific solutions to the peak oil crisis.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there is not much enthusiasm for tackling global warming at the moment, rather widespread public scepticism. at the beginning of the year we saw snow on the ground yet, if you look at the figures, you will see that the first six months of this year were the warmest on record across the globe. that is a simple fact. i want an international agreement in place as soon as possible but i have concerns about the nature of such an agreement. the distinction between developed and developing countries strikes me as odd. i wonder how long it is going to be before some of the developing countries overtake the poorest european countries. i look at the climate change conferences, the enthusiasm with which saudi arabia supports the idea of carbon capture and storage being put in the cdm. saudi arabia can surely invest a bit of its own money in doing these things. why should we contribute towards it? i am worried about the european union being left behind by the pace of change and i think climate change initiatives and our ability to tackle global warming offer great opportunities. china is planning on reducing its carbon intensity by 45% over the next decade. that means investment in new power stations replacing the old ones; it means improving its energy efficiency. there is a real difficulty here in that, if we cannot compete with the chinese now, how are we going to compete with a more energy-efficient china in years to come? i want to see our cap tightened. i want us to move up from 20% to 30%. i want us to see carbon prices rise so we drive forward the low carbon investments in the future. i wish i had more conviction that within the commission there was agreement that this really should be considered and done. i just do not feel that this is happening at the moment. i know this commissioner’s enthusiasm for the subject. i am not sure she has the full backing of the college. but maybe we need a fallback position? we do need a fallback position, and fundamentally that must be to drive forward our energy efficiency. just a few minutes ago we heard commissioner oettinger’s plans to bring forward some legislation in the new year. that legislation has got to be ambitious. we have got to save our resources. we have got to become more competitive.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, ní féidir linn na meancóga a rinneadh i gcóbanhávan anuraidh a dhéanamh arís. tá gá le fíorcheannaireacht agus le toil pholaitiúil d’fhonn an teorainn teochta a choinneáil ag 1.5oc. tá an sprioc seo tábhachtach. ba chóir don ae gníomhú go haontaobhach chun an sprioc laghdaithe astaíochta do 2020 a ardú, agus a áitiú ar thíortha forbartha eile sprioc fhoriomlán laghdaithe astaíochta de 80% go 95% faoi 2020 a chomhaontú. ní amháin go gcuideoidh sé seo le hidirbheartaíocht i gcancún, ach caithfimid é seo a dhéanamh ar mhaithe linn féin. caithfidh tíortha forbartha chomh maith maoiniú sásúil aeráide a chur ar fáil; é sin agus maoiniú mearthosaithe a chur i bhfeidhm mar aon le gealltanas láidir polaitiúil agus trédhearcacht iomlán. tá gá le foinsí nua maoinithe fadtéarmacha chomh maith. i measc na roghanna sin, ba chóir go mbeadh bearta cánach airgeadais idirnáisiúnta agus maoiniú ó eitlíocht agus loingeas idirnáisiúnta. iarraim oraibh vótáil in aghaidh na leasuithe a fhéachann le teachtaireacht níos laige a bheith ag teacht ón pharlaimint seo. tá gá le teachtaireacht láidir. ní féidir an ghéarchéim eacnamaíochta dhomhanda a úsáid mar leithscéal le gan a dhath a dhéanamh nó chun ceartas aeráide a shéanadh. is fadhb é an t-athrú aeráide ar gá troid ina éadan ar bhonn domhanda, agus chun é seo a dhéanamh tá gá le muinín eadrainn a thógáil.
mr president, choosing sunny mexico for cop 16 was a good move. we should be spared a repeat of last year’s embarrassment, when global warmists shivered in the coldest copenhagen december for decades. likewise, using the deceitfully ambiguous term ‘climate change’ rather than ‘global warming’ may blind a few british taxpayers to the irony of holding it just as an unusually cold summer gives way to an early, icy winter. an even better trick would be to hold these events only in the spring: look, it is getting warmer every day! how much longer can the fascistic eu impose ever more punitive taxes and controls on ordinary citizens on the pretext of man-made global warming, when an ever-increasing number of real scientists are rejecting the theory as unfounded and demolished? agw is baseless propaganda, a josef goebbels-scale big lie from the green industrial complex because they favour massive transfers of wealth from the little people to carbon-trading crooks, such as al gore and goldman sachs. and it is being exploited by leftist political elites to complete the deindustrialisation of the west because spineless conservatives are too browbeaten by global warming hysteria to stand up and tell the really inconvenient truth: man-made climate change is the most profitable con trick in history. this year’s bilderberg conference, held in spain in june, included a session on the dangers of global cooling. when will the new realism of the people who really shape global politics creep in here, among the people who merely think they do?
mr president, i am happy to read this speech on behalf of mr bloom, who has – in my view – been unfairly debarred from the chamber this afternoon. we had a fiasco a year ago in copenhagen, when 15 000 unqualified people, including meps and the whole entourage, descended on the place to double its carbon footprint for a fortnight and got hopelessly embroiled in climategate, which was very neatly timed to scotch the proceedings. yes, we all remember the university of east anglia getting shown for what it is: a centre of bogus science churned out by bought and paid-for scientists who rely on the eu’s research dg and the un’s ‘super quango’ for research funds and laboratories and on the uk taxpayers for their wages. they were shown up as forgers of data, forgers of climate computer models, hiders of inconvenient data and conspirators with obama’s green minions. the taxpaying masses learned in no uncertain terms that the eu and the global green agenda is all about raising our carbon taxes and scaring us into compliance. cancún would be not nearly as bad, of course. it is much warmer. it is a jolly winter, and the conspirators will be much more careful to hide their global governance agenda this year. but be warned: we, the people, are onto you.
mr president, speaking in a personal capacity, let me remind colleagues that the public has lost faith in man-made global warming. voters are sick of being blamed for climate change and are no longer prepared to pay for it. more and more scientists are going public to challenge climate orthodoxy. the credibility of the ipcc has been shot to pieces. recent, minor climate changes are entirely consistent with well-established, long-term natural climate cycles. copenhagen failed for the same reason that cancún will fail. the usa, with its new republican majority in the house, will not buy cap and trade. india and china will not forego progress in the name of climate alarmism. our green policies are probably unnecessary, certainly ineffectual and ruinously expensive. if europe acts alone, we will destroy our economies and impoverish our grandchildren, while making no impact on climate. we are embracing poverty by choice in the name of a disputed scientific theory. it is time to change course.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, africa is the richest continent in the world and its people the poorest in terms of per capita income. how is this possible? i think commissioner piebalgs struck the right note when he said that we need concrete action at a regional, continental level. to get there we do not need more handouts, which just keep people in subsistence poverty; we need to work to create economic growth. economic growth can only come from enterprise and education, but education and enterprise can only come if there are the instruments to create economic growth. for example, much of africa does not have electricity, so africa does not have the proper education or the proper computers or the proper infrastructure for economic growth. we now need to put more electricity into africa, we need clean water, and we need to have food security. i am delighted that the african union is now following a policy of zero tolerance for coups d’état. hooray, as the council said. what we need to do now is to look at africa as a modern, emerging economic tiger and enable africa to be fuelled faster and quicker in order to grow richer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i thank mr deva for his contribution but can i ask him, when he says that the euro handouts are over, if he does not agree that all member states, including the united kingdom, should stick to the calendar for achieving the un millennium development goal of committing 0.7% of gnp to development aid by the year 2013? if not, how can his aspiration for clean water, food security and an end to poverty be met without the international community meeting its promises on aid levels?
madam president, i am very grateful for the honourable member’s intervention. i said to the house that handouts will not simply alleviate poverty. of course, i support the millennium development goals and i applaud the conservative government which, while having to cut our national budget by something like 30%, including our school budget, has ring-fenced and increased our development assistance budget by 27%. i am very grateful to mr howitt for enabling me to air this extraordinary act of consistency and generosity on the part of the coalition government in london. but even by increasing the budget by 27%, and even if we reach the millennium development goals, we are not going to eliminate poverty in africa until we help africans to grow wealthier. europe did not become what it is today just by eliminating poverty and living at subsistence level. it grew rich by creating wealth. until we create wealth in africa which can be retained and is not brought back, we will not succeed.
madam president, i wanted to ask mr michel, given his distinguished career as a development commissioner and his enormous experience in africa, whether he could get african parliaments – particularly the african parliaments’ public scrutiny committees on finances and budgets – to be empowered and strengthened and given greater support from us so that they could actually question what happens with their ministers and their presidents in the enactment and clarity and accountability of the legislative and spending process? would he agree that this may be something very important that we can do practically?
madam president, the african union has proved sometimes to be a disappointment in confronting africa’s many challenges. the au is all too often silent in the face of autocracy, corruption, electoral fraud and illegal coups d’état. if the eu and africa want to deepen and intensify their strategic cooperation in the future, we cannot shy away from expressing our expectations of africa in a firm and frank manner. that means, in reality, that the african union must become a more responsible and responsive organisation with genuine moral and political authority. when africa needs help to tackle humanitarian crises, we of course should continue to provide the necessary financial and human resources. in particular, the eu needs to ensure that its commitment to the millennium development goals remains as robust as ever. the eu should also reflect on the damage done to african economies by its trade policies and its – sometimes somewhat absurd – farm subsidy regime. but ultimately only africans can solve africa’s problems. we need to grasp this reality and make it central to our approach to this strategic continent and our relationship with it.
madam president, the action plan for the eu-africa strategic partnership includes a section on democratic governance and human rights, which are regarded as ‘key for sustainable development’. however, we have been very poor at implementing such objectives. a prime example has been the failure to bring about real change in zimbabwe. in 2007, in the lead-up to the first eu-africa summit, we complained bitterly about the eu’s hypocrisy in imposing a travel ban and asset freeze on mugabe and his ilk with one hand, while inviting him to a summit in a european capital – lisbon – with the other. now we find that mugabe is yet again invited to an eu-africa summit, albeit in libya, and we meekly trot along as if none of this mattered. to rub shoulders with mugabe is an affront to our principles and is in direct contradiction to the eu’s own, stated position. it is a failure of our diplomacy in africa that any african government still has any regard for mugabe. madam president, may i put two questions to the council and the commission? in libya, will eu representatives voice their disapproval of mugabe’s presence? secondly, what is the eu doing to actively promote good governance? without it, there is little hope for a prosperous, democratic future for africa.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the frozen conflict over western sahara is destabilising the surrounding region. morocco’s intransigence continues to deny justice to the people of western sahara, who have been waiting for a referendum on independence for the past 20 years. while i do accept that morocco is an important ally of the west in the fight against terrorism, it is deeply regrettable that morocco will not deliver on its stated commitments to the terms of the un settlement plan. we should now, in the light of the report of violence against the people of western sahara, give the un mission there a mandate to monitor the human rights of the sahrawi people. but efforts to develop this capacity have been sadly and consistently blocked by france. this is almost unique among all un missions: it is the only one without a human rights mandate. morocco and the polisario front both need to understand what is expected of them in terms of standards by the international community. we do have a lot of leverage over morocco here in the eu, particularly over fishing rights and aid. hopefully the impending referendum scheduled for south sudan, which will create a new sovereign state in the south, will provide fresh motivation for all the parties involved to seek a final resolution to this long-standing dispute over western sahara – a territory and a people which, in my mind, deserve a peaceful and prosperous future.
madam president, i will also talk today about the upsetting developments in western sahara. as we have been reading in our newspapers, there have been violent confrontations in refugee camps, where the bulk of the western saharan population have been confined since the moroccan invasion of the 1970s. to invade their country is one thing, but to confine a large percentage of the population in refugee camps is another. the western sahara in exile movement has courageously brought this situation to the world’s attention. the un security council has examined this latest violent episode, but stopped short of calling for an independent investigation. it is a safe bet that the moroccan authorities will be less than impartial if the investigation is left up to them. the moroccan authorities cannot even decide how many people were killed in the raid at the camp in laâyoune. given the proximity of western sahara to europe, and its potential to destabilize the sensitive north african region, this could escalate if things are not done soon. i strongly believe that there should be an independent investigation and i call on the un security council to launch one.
mr president, i know ukraine from visits to kiev and the crimea and collect ukrainian artists such as tetenko and shishko. the ukrainians are a good, generous, warm-hearted people, but politically i would counsel great care. ukraine is a country divided between a pro-western west and a russian-facing east. it is also a big player, with 45 million citizens, and russia sees the country as very much in its backyard. i have toured the russian fleet in sevastopol, on the crimean peninsula. the russians will jealously guard access to the black sea from there. any talk of ukraine joining nato would be a sharp kick to the russian bear. a clumsy diplomatic approach by baroness ashton could exacerbate tensions at a difficult time, whilst the cost of forcing ukraine into the eu in terms of farming subsidies, regional aid and mass migration would be prohibitive. better to help in other ways and keep ukraine as a proud, independent, non-eu nation.
mr president, this is the second time that i have sat in this chamber and seen the president interrupt one of the speakers on the basis that they are speaking too quickly. i do not know how often you speak yourself, but you should understand that such an interruption has the consequence of completely wrecking the speech. now, i happen to disagree entirely with what mr désir said, but i think that, really, the interpreters are paid employees and if they cannot keep up, that is their problem. it is not for the president to interrupt in the way that you have just done.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, should europe’s trade policy simply be about obtaining maximum economic advantage, or should it be used to underpin and promote our wider goals: sustainable environment policy, fight against climate change, our social model, the promotion of human rights and democratic values? the three speakers before me – the three rapporteurs – have all confirmed that the answer to that should be in the affirmative and, i am pleased to say, so has the commissioner. indeed, already in our actions we do put human rights, environmental protection and labour standards in our bilateral trade agreements. but the question is: do we do it in a way that allows us to ensure proper application and compliance with these standards? the subcommittee on human rights of this parliament has serious doubts about our effectiveness so far. in the case of future trade agreements, we would like to ensure that, before any agreement is initialled, an fta is subject to a human rights impact assessment to make sure that there are not only economic benefits from the agreement, but human rights gains from any such agreement. we believe that the system for suspending free trade agreements for abuse of human rights must be made more transparent and accessible, and i acknowledge the fact that mr de gucht in the korea fta has started to go down that route. we believe that in relation to gsp+, beneficiaries must be subjected to consistent and fairer benchmarking to make sure that their application of environmental, social and human standards remains at a high level and consistent. mrs saïfi, mr désir and mr jadot have all made it very clear that trade must not be viewed as an end in itself but must be part of a wider global strategy to promote a fairer, safer and healthier planet.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, as this parliament’s rapporteur on corporate social responsibility for over three parliamentary terms now, i strongly welcome my colleague, harlem désir’s initiative on trade and csr. companies often say they should mainstream csr, and this initiative reflects that public policy should do so too. i very much hope that commissioner de gucht will reflect its recommendations in the new trade policy communication. in recent years, my own work has increasingly involved representing european interests in advancing global csr mechanisms. therefore, as a friend of the oecd guidelines – in my view now the foremost international csr standard, and also one signed up to by governments – i strongly support paragraph 25, that future eu trade agreements should specifically cite the guidelines. the commission officially operates national contact points under those guidelines, and i hope this commitment will also be reviewed. as a consultee of professor john ruggie on business and human rights, i endorse the requirement in recital q of the report for companies to undertake due diligence and congratulate the previous swedish presidency for putting full support for the un special representatives’ recommendations into the council conclusions. the commissioner should particularly read ruggie’s strong criticism of governmental failures to respect human rights considerations as the commission develops its new competence on investment. as a member of the advisory board of the global reporting initiative, can i endorse the objective of transparency in paragraph 15, but also ask that the imminent public consultation by the commission on non-financial disclosure moves decisively towards the principle of integrated reporting on financial, social, environmental and human rights impacts by companies.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i was the green/efa shadow for both the saïfi and the désir reports. we welcome these as important steps forward to secure better human rights and social and environmental standards in the countries that are our trading partners. if those countries want to sell on the lucrative eu markets, we should encourage them to adopt decent and sustainable standards at home. securing improvement through mandatory clauses and requirements in trade agreements is one way to achieve this. ms saïfi, who did an excellent job as rapporteur, discusses constructively the different levels and aspects of human rights, and environmental and social standards at differing levels. we agree with ms saïfi’s suggestion that a world environment organisation be formed and that the ilo status should be strengthened. we liked the sustainable development chapter in ftas but wish those standards to be binding, not voluntary. similarly, the gsp schemes should be given proper teeth and be enforceable. but we could not agree with the rapporteur that the human rights clause in the fta with colombia was satisfactory. in fact we thought that was a meaningless, formulaic human rights clause that makes a mockery of the aspirations of this house in that regard. turning to mr désir’s report, we could not agree more with him when he names the transnational corporations as a source of negative effects on the environment and on our social standards. they have profited from trade liberalisation and they have exploited cheap labour – and, all too often, cheap materials – but failed to adequately redistribute the wealth they have created at others’ expense. we have successfully amended both reports, and will be supporting both of them when it comes to the vote. in closing, i would very quickly stress that more needs to be done in specifying the human rights and social responsibilities we want to prioritise. we should do so in terms of obligatory requirements and not rely on voluntary codes.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, trade delivers mutual prosperity, and i emphasise the word ‘mutual’. it follows, therefore, that trade policy should almost never be burdened with a political agenda. now, on a personal level i have great respect for the rapporteurs of these three reports, but the philosophy which underpins the reports has been put forward at many elections and mostly voted down. what we are seeing is an attempt to manipulate the trade policy of the european union – which, unfortunately, the uk is bound by for the moment – in order to implement by stealth a largely socialist agenda that has been consistently rejected. at a political level, the machinations of the rapporteurs are rather impressive. but, as a democrat, i have to say no and that is why we will be voting no tomorrow.
mr president, i would point out to the commissioner that the concept and practice of corporate social responsibility has spread rapidly through the business sector during the last decade. who can object to such basic values as companies treating their employees well and respecting human rights and the environment? yet up till now, the link between trade and corporate social responsibility has been tenuous at best, and arguments abound. international trade is governed by agreements between states, but should csr be a binding commitment to which those undertakings must sign up? or may they comply on a voluntary basis? european citizens are becoming more aware. so many recent disasters – not least the bp oil spill – have shown that the standards and ethics under which our european companies operate abroad must be monitored. ordinary europeans are no longer willing to welcome and support an expansion in international trade purely on economic grounds. when trade destroys the natural environment and lowers the living standards of local populations, we say enough is enough. only governments can set standards which ensure that those who behave in an ethical and transparent way are not undercut by those who do not. the european union must encourage businesses to adopt and to report on csr obligations in all their business activities, both at home and abroad. without this, csr risks remaining little more than an exercise in public relations for a few multinational companies. i welcome this own-initiative report, which calls on the commission to bring csr into the heart of the eu’s international trade agreements. we must guarantee that respect for sustainable development and labour rights remains equally important in the pursuit of the european union’s commercial interests abroad.
author. − mr president, i would say this to the commissioner: since the start of the economic downturn, the commission has repeatedly promised not to turn to protectionist policies but to embrace liberalisation – which you yourself have been very much in favour of – create opportunities for european businesses and make a more attractive opportunity in europe for investment. while i agree that anti-dumping measures must be used where they are necessary, the problem is, of course, whether you use them as a protectionist measure. the sheer number of anti-dumping investigations at the moment would suggest that they are being so used. on this matter, commissioner, i beg to differ with you on a particular problem in belgium with an electronic company about which i spoke to you only about three or four weeks ago. in actual fact they have come to an agreement and they have sorted it out themselves, yet you have not dropped the anti-dumping legislation against that particular company. it was a chinese company and a belgian electronic company. they have sorted it out and are actually working together specifically to provide job opportunities in the european union. i will give you another example. we have a situation within the united kingdom – and, for that matter, europe – over fibreglass, which has an import duty at the moment of (and i stand to be corrected on this) 43.6%. this is a useful product used right across the united kingdom and europe for the manufacture of a number of products. finally, commissioner, let me remind you that it was not you, not your predecessor but the predecessor of your predecessor who put in place anti-dumping legislation on fertiliser. regarding agricultural products, at the moment we are deeply worried about the cost of production, supply and security of food. yet the actual costs of fertiliser – because you have put in place anti-dumping legislation – have risen by 173%. why is this happening? we must open up our markets. i trust you, of all people, implicitly to actually get rid of this protectionism across europe. i look forward to hearing your answers.
madam president, perhaps the most disgraceful aspect of the commissioner’s conduct which this report discloses, over and above the appalling treatment meted out to the complainant in this case, is that it was not an isolated case of maladministration. indeed, the facts disclosed in this trenchant report go beyond the realms of mere negligence and indolence. rather, it is a reasonable conclusion to draw that this sort of behaviour on the part of the commission is both quite deliberate and nothing less than a calculated course of conduct designed to thwart the hard work of the ombudsman and to trash the rule of law. his work is difficult enough without the added problem of a commission that set out, as the facts here show, to impede at every turn the proper conduct of his office. there was a time when, if such shabby conduct on the part of public servants was revealed, both functionaries and the minister responsible would fall on their swords. instead, i expect we shall see here an arrogant and overweening commission doing what it does best, thumbing its nose at the public whilst the guilty ones go unpunished. no wonder the eu has never been so unpopular!
madam president, i refer to the third item: application of european law. it could be argued that the only thing worse than clear and transparent european law is ambiguous and uncertain eu law. the commission’s ‘better regulation and simplification’ agenda seems to be as elusive as the holy grail. the standard of english in some proposed legislation led me at first to the conclusion that it had originated in a southern dialect of albanian. however, i discovered at an early stage that most of the worst examples originated in english. the legislative process does not improve poorly-drafted legislation. amendments are sent to meps at the last possible moment; votes are split and then reunited; we have gone into the chamber confident that we have the latest, most final version of the voting list, only to find that it was superseded during the morning. those meps in large groups who are content to be lobby fodder for their party leaders do not have to worry. they simply follow the gesticulations of their party tic-tac men. however, for conscientious meps and those in the non-attached group, it is a nightmare.
mr president, i too would like to thank all the members who signed written declaration no 75 on camp ashraf. this sends a very powerful message to the iraqi authorities to lift the inhuman siege that they have applied against the 3 400 innocent people in camp ashraf over recent months. i really am grateful that more than half of the members of this house have signed this declaration. it was only opened a month ago and that is a very rapid victory. thank you very much indeed. (applause)
mr president, the purpose of trade is to maximise prosperity and advantage to both participants. countries do not trade with one another: businesses and individuals do. yet in this report, and in the eu’s trade policy more widely, we see the commission’s determination to insert into its commercial agreements all sorts of non-commercial criteria: not only those dealing with human rights, environmental standards and so on, but also, and rather more damagingly, those which insist that other parts of the world form themselves into regional commercial blocs in mimicry of the eu. the whole point of trade is to swap on the back of differences. there is no purpose in obliging, let us say, the countries of central america to form a commercial union among themselves in which they are selling one another bananas and coffee and cut flowers. nor, for that matter, is there much advantage in having in europe a bloc of similar industrialised economies, where we have cut ourselves off from the growing markets of the rest of the world. it is deleterious to the developing nations and to the anglosphere, and it is particularly disastrous for my country, which has trapped itself in a cramped and declining regional customs union.
in writing. − i voted for the budget resolution but abstained on amendment 1b, which deals with new own resources. i certainly believe the eu should be looking for new sources of finance but do not believe this should done by seeking advance commitments from the council. we should have an open discussion about all the options.
in writing. − i abstained on the original text of paragraph 1(6) because the idea of calling for new proposals on own resources through tax initiatives and other possible programmes such as ets represents a potential for eu-style taxes. this vote is consistent with my attitude and earlier approach on any suggestions of a euro-style tax system.
in writing. − this resolution sends a clear signal to the other institutions that the european parliament is willing to start serious negotiations in order to resolve the current budget deadlock and to decide upon a budget for 2011 as soon as possible. reaching a deal will mean that single farm payments are not delayed, and funding for structural funds is not affected. i believe that meps, as the only directly elected representatives in the eu, should be involved in shaping the next financial perspective in order to achieve the best deal for uk citizens. steps need to be taken to make the eu budget more flexible. this will enable the eu to react quickly to crises and will allow unforeseen needs to be financed. the resolution also calls for a much-needed discussion on new ways to finance the eu, which could reduce the cost of the eu for british taxpayers.
in writing. − i warmly welcome this report, which makes clear that eu trade policy must be about more than trying to achieve maximum economic advantage. eu trade agreements must include strong human rights, social and environmental standards.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which reviews and supports the ombudsman’s activities in 2009. the ombudsman provides an important link with the citizens and his work helps build trust in the eu institutions and makes them more accessible.
in writing. − i voted for this report. i take the view that the commission’s uncooperative attitude in this and other cases risks eroding citizens’ trust in the commission and undermining the ability of the european ombudsman and the european parliament to adequately and effectively supervise the commission, and that as such it runs counter to the very principle of the rule of law upon which the european union is founded. i support demands that the commission give an undertaking to parliament that it will fulfil its duty of sincere cooperation with the european ombudsman in future.
in writing. − i voted for this report. it evaluates the commission’s monitoring of the application of european union law in 2008. it focuses its analysis on the report from the commission entitled ‘eu pilot evaluation report’, in which the commission proposes an evaluation of the performance of the ‘eu pilot’ project after its 22 months of operation. the committee raises some key questions on the functioning of the eu pilot and on the role of citizens in ensuring compliance with union law on the ground and asks the commission to provide relevant data to enable an analysis of the value the eu pilot adds to the existing infringement process. the committee also suggests calling on the commission to propose a ‘procedural code’ on the infringement procedure under the new legal basis of article 298 tfeu, in order to enforce citizens’ rights and transparency.
in writing. − the british conservative delegation supported this report because it recognised that under the ‘amsterdam protocol’ it is the exclusive competence of member states to define the public service remit and to provide funding of public sector broadcasters. this is of importance to the uk because of the unique method of funding of the bbc and we welcome this confirmation that the european parliament will not try to intrude into the funding methods used in the uk to fund the bbc. there were two issues that the uk delegation could not support in this report: the call for search engines and internet service providers to provide funding for the financing of content creation on the internet and the call for a european audiovisual observatory to gather data on national public sector broadcaster. the uk delegation therefore requested separate votes on these paragraphs and voted against them. however, overall the report is a balanced approach to this subject and for this reason the british conservative delegation supported this report.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution, which reaffirms parliament’s commitment to the dual broadcasting system, in which private and public service media play their respective roles, independent of political and economic pressure, and calls for access to broadcasting of the highest level to be ensured irrespective of consumers’ and users’ ability to pay.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls for the allocation of specific and significant financial, human and organisational resources regarding the participation of women and gender mainstreaming in the field of foreign and security policy; calls for more women to be deployed in police, military and justice and rule-of-law missions and in peace-keeping operations as well as in diplomatic mission and democracy building efforts; calls on eu members states to actively promote women participation in their bilateral and multilateral relations with states and organisations outside the eu;
in writing. − the ecr is wholeheartedly supportive of equal rights and opportunities and gender non-discrimination for all women, as stated in un resolution 1325, and strongly advocates the invaluable role of women in the area of peace and security and condemns the barbaric and horrific treatment of women and children in conflict zones. however, the ecr has consistently been against setting quotas for women within national, regional and international institutions, as well as the establishment of the european external action service (eeas).
in writing. − in 2010, the european year of biodiversity, the beekeeping sector throughout the world is gravely threatened, registering losses 100 to 1 000 times worse than normal. this sector plays a strategic role in society, providing a public service of environmental value, and beekeeping is a valuable example of a ‘green occupation’ (improving and preserving biodiversity and the ecological balance and conserving plant life) and a model of sustainable production in a rural environment. i therefore welcome this resolution that makes proposals to improve the situation of the beekeeping sector.
in writing. − i welcome this report on a new energy strategy for europe which considers that any future strategy should seek to fulfil the lisbon treaty's core objectives of a single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and savings and the development of new and renewable forms of energy and the promotion of energy networks; furthermore, it should contribute to affordable energy prices for the benefit of all consumers, the enhancement of renewables in the framework of sustainable energy production, and the development of interconnected, integrated interoperable and smart energy networks and lead to a reduced reliance on energy imports and an increase in indigenous energy production, while maintaining competitiveness and industry growth and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. − maintaining a strategic approach to energy within the eu is becoming more and more essential as resources become traded as ‘futures’ and regimes in other parts of the world continue to divert these scarce resources in their direction only. whilst i can agree that an effective solution might be energy saving, it is only a part of the wider approach necessary. the development of energy technologies such as fusion and mixtures of sustainable energy resources are essential. however, this will only be achieved by supporting energy security as a policy with other western agencies such as nato.
in writing. − with a projected 70% of the eu’s energy being imported by 2030, often from unstable regions, security of supply must be a priority for the eu, and this resolution sets out the eu’s strategy to deal with this dependence. energy efficiency should be a priority for the eu, in particular as it is the most effective way of cutting costs for consumers across the eu. the resolution also calls on the commission to ensure that all current legislation is properly enforced, including a single energy market, and also reiterates the parliament’s call for the roll-out of smart meters, all of which should improve the service that consumers receive, and allow them to better control the amount of energy they use.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which sets out parliament’s position in advance of the cancun climate change conference. it emphasises that substantive steps need to be agreed in cancun to pave the way for the conclusion of a comprehensive international post-2012 agreement in south africa in 2011, which should be in line with the latest developments in science and consistent with at least achieving the 2ºc objective, without prejudice to moving to a 1.5ºc temperature-increase limit in order to safeguard the survival of all nations, peoples and ecosystems. it calls on the european union once again to take a leading role in the climate negotiations and to actively contribute to a more constructive and transparent climate conference in cancun.
in writing. − as the move towards the conference gathers pace, it is clear that a real chance exists for the eu to make a positive contribution in cancún. having listened to the chair of the committee, jo leinen, i am convinced that at its heart, a multilateral agreement can only be reached if the suspicion of bric countries can be removed. similarly, the commitments of many countries to meeting contributions towards helping developing nations has to be driven forward at the conference.
in writing. − i was delighted to be able to co-author, on behalf of the s&d group, parliament’s resolution on western sahara. i am dismayed that protests in western sahara have been met by a violent clampdown by the authorities and i share the fears expressed in this resolution for the safety of sahrawi human rights defenders. the situation in western sahara remains one of the final vestiges of decolonisation and, after 30 years, needs to be resolved. i welcome the call in this resolution for a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution in full accordance with the un security council resolutions, and i would once again echo the un in urging that there must be a referendum of the people in the region.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on the unfortunate situation in western sahara. i am shocked by the violent incidents which took place in the camp of gdaim izik and in the town of laâyoune, as well as by the use of force on the very same day on which the third cycle of informal talks on the status of western sahara opened in new york. i deplore the loss of human life and express my solidarity with the families of the dead, the injured and the disappeared and urge the setting-up, under the aegis of the united nations, of an independent and transparent committee of inquiry with a mandate to establish the responsibilities of the various parties for triggering the aforementioned events, and to indicate what casualties occurred. i am also astonished that european parliamentarians and journalists were refused access to western sahara and call on the moroccan authorities to allow the press and non-governmental organisations access to the region.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on ukraine. i welcome the efforts made by the current governing coalition to re-establish political stability in ukraine, which is an essential condition for the consolidation of democracy in the country. a lasting political stability can only be ensured through constitutional changes that establish a clear separation of powers, as well as a proper system of checks and balances between and within the executive, legislative and judicial branches of power.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which sets out how the eu’s trade policy might contribute to tackling climate change. mr jadot wants the eu to assume international leadership on this matter and examine the possibility of a financial transaction tax, reform of the wto (particularly its anti-dumping rules), prevent the european investment bank from granting loans to projects that have a negative impact on the climate and end agricultural export subsidies – all of which i welcome.
in writing. − i welcome my colleague harlem desir’s report on corporate social responsibility. he considers csr to be an effective tool for improving competitiveness, skills and training opportunities, occupational safety and the working environment, protecting workers’ rights and the rights of local and indigenous communities, promoting a sustainable environmental policy and encouraging exchanges of good practice at local, national, european and world level. he does, however, make it clear that they cannot supplant labour regulations or general or sectoral collective agreements.
in writing. − i voted for this report. i welcome the fact that the commission has opened two different public consultations in connection with the review of the competition rules applicable to horizontal cooperation agreements. the resolution stresses the importance of listening to and considering as much as possible in the decision-making process the views of the stakeholders in order to achieve a realistic and balanced regulatory framework.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on iraq – in particular the death penalty (including the case of tariq aziz) and attacks against christian communities see minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on tibet – plans to make chinese the main language of instruction see minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on burma – conduct of elections and the release of opposition leader aung san suu kyi see minutes..
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i am delighted at the level of european union unity that has been shown on the matter of burma. i have read the council statement, baroness ashton’s statement and indeed our own president’s statement. no one has been fooled by these deeply flawed elections in burma; everyone has welcomed the release of aung san suu kyi from house arrest; but everyone has also condemned the lack of other freedoms that is still imposed. however, madam president, if we play our cards right, these elections could – and it is a big ‘could’ – be a new start in burma. if, as other colleagues have said, we can now persuade the junta to release all political prisoners, if we can persuade the junta to allow aung san suu kyi complete freedom, both in terms of movement and in terms of political public statements, and, finally, if the new burmese parliament and government start to improve human and fundamental rights in the country, and to improve the social and economic conditions of the people of burma, then perhaps, in a few years time, there will be grounds for our institutions to start negotiating and engaging with the burmese regime and to see a better future for that country.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 16.30)
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an méid a comhaontaíodh ag cop 16 i gcancún. ach níor chóir dúinn dallamullóg a chur orainn féin go bhfuilimid san áit inar chóir dúinn a bheith. caithfear spriocanna a leagan síos anois atá i bhfad níos daingne, níos soiléire agus ceangailteach. caithfidh na rialtais tógáil ar obair chancún chun comhaontú ceangailteach uaillmhianach a bhaint amach san afraic theas an bhliain seo chugainn. caithfimid gníomhú sa bhaile fosta. caithfear aontú láithreach bonn ar laghdú 30% ar a laghad a dhéanamh ar sceitheadh co2 san eoraip – chan amháin ar mhaithe le haontú idirnáisiúnta ach ar ár son féin fosta – ionas gur féidir linn bheith iomaíoch as seo amach. caithfidh an eoraip barántas a thabhairt go mbeidh muid i bhfad níos éifeachtaí ó thaobh ídiú fuinnimh de. níor éirigh linn sin a bhaint amach gan an sprioc d’éifeachtacht fuinnimh de 20% a bheith ina cheangal dlí. caithfear é sin a athrú anois.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i agree with mr weber of the epp that eu visa policy is extremely valuable and that technical standards and conditions of visa facilitation and visa waiver must be met. however, i do not believe that, in the case of the balkan visa waiver, political considerations have overridden these technical standards. the commission worked very hard to get document integrity, law enforcement and border controls up to scratch. we would devalue our own stance if we thought that the technical standards had not been met, because we voted to support that visa waiver. of course it is of concern if concessions are abused, but there must be measured and proportionate responses. the countries concerned – as commissioner malmström said – have responsibilities and they must be reminded of them. the commissioner has explained to us that there has been quite intense work, with high-level meetings with interior ministers, visits to capitals, encouragement to run information campaigns – and there is a specific commitment by bosnia-herzegovina and albania to inform their citizens. of course, if there are problems with one visa waiver agreement, this undermines the others, so there is a certain onus for responsibility and solidarity and for all citizens to be aware that they could harm other people’s chances of free travel. i personally am reassured – and i think my group will be – that the commission will intensify its monitoring of respect for the agreement conditions and have a mechanism for flagging up problems through close cooperation with our partners. i hope that all groups will find that reassuring and adequate. as my neighbour, mrs macovei of the epp, has said, people-to-people direct contacts create trust. that is the bottom line. that is the reason we support visa facilitation and visa waiver. there has been broad based cross-party support in parliament for this proposal because it is based on our eu experience and values. so do not let us overreact. there have been problems, but the commission is on the case. let us make sure that we do not undermine either the right to asylum or the visa waiver agreements.
madam president, visa facilitation and visa liberalisation are undoubtedly intended to be favourable terms. they are always defended on the grounds that they have nothing to do with immigration and everything to do with education and tourism – two more favourable terms. you can cell me a cynic, but students do not always come to study and tourists do not always visit for a limited period. they sometimes come to the eu in order to work and to live. the idea that people are always truthful about their intentions is not borne out from experience. in the present crisis jobs are scarce – especially unskilled jobs – and the demand for housing accommodation always exceeds supply. the jobs that illegal migrants fill are often jobs that could be filled by citizens of member states and the conditions and pay are frequently below the minimum. we must not even pretend that turning a blind eye to illegal migration is an act of generosity. it leads to poverty wage rates, unsafe conditions, exploitation and abuse.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, in taking this opportunity to speak on behalf of the s&d shadow, ms guillaume, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, for having actively consulted all the shadows in his usual way and successfully pushed forward the negotiations with the council. whereas the commission proposal consists of mostly technical modifications, this report has, in my view, allowed for a better understanding and consideration of the complexity and scope of the liaison officers’ activities. immigration liaison officers (ilos) are indeed engaged in quite complex and opaque activities. it is therefore absolutely necessary – for reasons of transparency – to further a better exchange of information with the european parliament on the one hand and organisations such as the unhcr and the asylum support office on the other. it is also fundamental to include and promote the human rights orientated approach to the mission of ilos, which the commissioner has just mentioned. it is surely needless to recall that, in the context of addressing mixed migratory movements, the posting of ilos in third countries may raise several concerns from a fundamental rights perspective, in particular regarding the right of individuals to leave a country, including their own, and the right of asylum seekers to flee and find protection from persecution. finally, on the heated debate concerning terminology, we have in the explanatory memorandum a satisfactory compromise for what seems to be an endless debate. i will finish by thanking mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra and saying that our group will fully support his report.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, one of the totems of a sovereign state is that it controls who can and who cannot come into its own country. unfortunately, several governments in the uk have given away this power to unelected, faceless bureaucrats in brussels. what a disaster it has proven to be. we have a situation now where we have uncontrolled eu immigration into our country, which has resulted in wages being driven down and people – indigenous people – being put out of work. i do not believe that this eu immigration liaison officers network has any power to stop this happening at all. we also have a two-tier immigration system in our country whereby if you are from australia or new zealand or anywhere else you have a cap. however, if you are from latvia or poland or any of the eu countries you can come to our country willy-nilly. this is fundamentally wrong. it is argued that this network will help control illegal immigration, but what happens if a country like romania, for example, basically gives citizenship to hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants? what it does is it makes a mockery of the whole system. i support elected politicians in the uk having control over our own borders. what i do not support are unaccountable, unelected appointees. i believe that the strengthening of this network would not be necessary if each individual member state had the power to control who does and who does not come onto its lands. i therefore implore everybody to reject this report. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, if doctors and dentists and people like that want to come to the uk to work – and we need their skills – then by all means they should come, but what we have at the moment is a situation where our market is saturated: we cannot control who comes from the eu and who does not. this is fundamentally wrong. it is bad and it is putting people out of work. i shall give you an example. the taxi driver who drove me to the airport this morning was a bricklayer who has been laid off as a result of polish people coming onto the site, undercutting british workers, and now he is driving a taxi. that cannot be right.
madam president, the amendment to the regulation facilitates the exchange of information ‘to manage legal and illegal immigration’. i do not want to manage it: i want to stop it. migration is based on the false assumption that we are the products of our culture and that exposure to european culture will transform non-europeans into europeans in the second generation, if not the first. distinct peoples are not the product of distinct cultures: distinct cultures are the product of distinct peoples. bring the populations of the third world into europe and you will be bringing the third world into europe – not temporarily, but for all time. that is what we have been doing for the last six decades.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we too have a concern about the variable labour market that we already have across 27 member states and within those 27 member states, but our concern is how we move away from this towards something which is more comprehensive and stronger. we want to be sure that we have an agreed basis of rights for the majority of third-country nationals, as originally set out by the commission and generally improved in the committee on employment and social affairs. we do not want to see these rights increasingly restrained and constrained, so we will support the widest possible and strongest range of rights in tomorrow’s vote. we want to remind the council that we are concerned here with individuals who should be able to develop their skills and education, benefit from the social security contributions they make and look forward to claiming their pension entitlements, given, as is recognised in the proposal, that their work supports our economies and indeed our societies. for our group, the commitment to circular migration is also important in article 11(a). the scope is a vexed issue because we have other existing instruments under discussion, which at times come into tension. we are also fooling ourselves if we think that what is on the table here is actually going to meet the needs of each and every migrant worker within the european union. we need a more nuanced approach to ensure that migration works for them, so we are not going to be voting, for example, to include beneficiaries of humanitarian protection.
madam president, i think my colleagues from the s&d group, mr cercas and mrs blinkevičiūtė, both referred to the central problem for our group in this package: it is not just about equal treatment or the country-of-origin principle – as mrs oomen-ruijten said, that has been debated very extensively. there is also the question of the illogicality of where we are today. we have a single permit proposal which comes after the skilled workers proposal, the blue card, and comes after sanctions on employers. that means we have a package which has many of the correct intentions, such as having a horizontal approach. however, we are not having a horizontal approach because we are in a situation where mrs mathieu is doing a good job with what she has but, as she said in her speech, we wanted a global approach but we now have a sectoral approach, and that sectoral approach is exactly what mrs lambert was concerned about. so where are we today? our group has deep concerns in the employment sphere on the country-of-origin principle and, as my colleague mrs blinkevičiūtė said, we have a real problem with the categories of workers who are included in this proposal. so we have a situation where posted workers, intra-corporate transferees, seasonal workers and – yes – beneficiaries of international protection are all excluded. we will present these amendments again tomorrow on behalf of our group. if you have a single permit which does not do what it says on the tin – i.e. it does not have a reasonably broad-based approach to entry for third-country nationals to the european union – you will face problems of equal treatment, of a two-tier work force and other problems that we want to solve with common policies. on the other hand, we in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in particular appreciate that the sectoral approach is the approach we have to work with, so there will be directives on seasonal workers and intra-corporate transferees, but you cannot blame our group, which has equal treatment on the country-of-origin principle at the heart of its activities in trying to resolve these matters. we are telling the truth, which is that we are doing things in the wrong way and we are doing it because of the people who are not present today to listen to our arguments: the representatives of the council. the council did not want to deal with this in a horizontal way and we are left with this kind of piecemeal approach. so on the single permit, we understand the good intentions and the global approach and the work of the rapporteur in trying to make this work, but we will present our amendments tomorrow in good faith in the hope that we can obtain a single permit which says what it is: a single permit covering the broad range of people who seek to work in this european union. we want to make it a realistic single permit that will really work for all member states and will stand the test of time.
rapporteur. − mr president, i fear that as i get into the first paragraph of my speech there will be only me, the ppe coordinator and the commissioner left in the chamber. i admire you for your stamina, commissioner. i should never take up my speaking time by doing this, but i could not help it. thanks to the ppe group for being here too at this time of night. commissioner, you and the council did a great job in rescuing this proposal, which now benefits those who should never have been excluded from the original long-term residence directive. there was another opportunity to include them in 2008, and again unfortunately, through the failure to reach unanimity in the council, this could not happen. so it is a very happy day today that a proposal taken on by my predecessor as coordinator in my group, martine roure, is now the subject of an agreement. i am very grateful to the council, too. i pointed out in the previous debate that it was not present but, if it were present here today, i would thank the council too, because during the belgian presidency we were able to make good progress. i am very grateful for that. the proposal will bring direct benefit to all beneficiaries of international protection who have been in the eu for more than five years but currently cannot become long-term residents. it will finally bring to an end their differential treatment compared to other third-country nationals and will give them greater certainty about their situation in the eu. the main issue for the negotiations boiled down to the calculation of the time period of legal residence to reach the five years. we supported the commission that the full duration of the procedure should be taken into account. however, this was strongly opposed by the council. we were particularly concerned about this, because asylum procedures can take many years in some member states. the compromise we have reached in the negotiations is that at least half of the asylum procedure will be taken into account and, if a procedure takes more than 18 months, the whole procedure will then be taken into account. i hesitate to go on to the issue of correlation tables but i am duty bound to say something about them – i would rather not. i would nevertheless like to implore the institutions to reach a horizontal agreement on this issue. i would particularly urge the council to recognise the importance of correlation tables for overseeing the implementation of legislation. we had a very difficult situation in which many of the dossiers considered of great importance by groups across this house could have been delayed because of this issue. i am very happy also that the scope of the proposal includes both refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. it is vital to continue the trend towards aligning the standards of protection and the rights granted to both groups, as in the recasting of the qualification directive. the agreement also contains many safeguards against refoulement. given that beneficiaries will now be allowed to move between member states, it is important that the protection background of beneficiaries is never forgotten. therefore member states will have to include a comment in the long-term residence permit and will be obliged to consult the member state that granted protection in cases of possible expulsion. the proposal also takes into account the transfer of protection to another member state under national arrangements. the long-term residence permit needs to be modified accordingly in order to safeguard against refoulement. we have also ensured that the principle of family unity is upheld in the event of expulsion to another member state, but it is also clear that it should not be automatic in cases where it may not be in the best interest of family members to go with the expelled person. the agreement we have reached on this is a signal of the new cooperation which can exist between the three institutions in the area of asylum and legal migration aided by the new framework in the lisbon treaty. it shows that we can reach an agreement with member states on a progressive piece of asylum-related legislation. i again want to thank my shadow rapporteurs from across the groups, ms nedelcheva, ms wikström and other colleagues who helped make this what i would call a pleasurable trialogue – if that is not a contradiction in terms! i should like to thank all concerned for making this a reality.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to formally thank the commissioner again for her work on this. one of the reasons why we hope that the first step on asylum can be completed in tomorrow’s vote – and i hope it is a resounding vote – is because, although asylum remains one of the deeply sensitive issues for this house, as mr busuttil explained for smaller countries in particular, every piece of legislation on asylum can have a disproportionate effect not just on small countries but also on flashpoint countries such as greece. we should all proceed carefully, as we did in this report, and there are some items in the explanatory memorandum which ensure that members’ concerns are taken very seriously, particularly when they come from serious members. for example, i think we were able to incorporate ms nedelcheva’s concerns regarding integration and those of ms wikström when she talked about family members and expulsion, as well as the issues of domestic violence and other issues. it is when we have that kind of cooperation that negotiations go very well at the higher level of the commission and the council thanks to the work we do in parliament with colleagues. finally, ms sargentini, i really wanted to find an inventive way of saying that correlation tables were extremely important. to say that asylum seekers are now waiting for the correlation tables to be implemented is probably the most inventive and imaginative lobbying for the correlation table resolution to happen, so i hope council was listening. thank you again to all my colleagues for their support on this report after such a long time.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i am speaking tonight because my colleague, mr bufton, who would have addressed you, is unwell. on his behalf, i present this to you. as we know, along with the cap, regional funds represent the biggest part of the eu budget. for decades, the british people have been forced to foot the bill for various projects around the eu, most of which are of no benefit at all to the uk taxpayer. recently, the bureau of investigative journalism in the uk unveiled the fact that eu regional funds are being used to prop up arms dealing companies in eastern europe, with some projects receiving funding amounting to millions of euros, although these are some of the richest companies. do they really need eu subsidies? given the fraud and waste endemic in this budget line, and the way it is not even being used for the purposes its supporters allege, i call on the coalition in the uk to withdraw funding, as we need this money at home – yet another reason to leave the eu.
rapporteur. − mr president, i have difficulty explaining to those uninitiated in financial jargon precisely what my report on ‘dark pools’ refers to. the report formally refers to the trading of financial instruments including dark pools, which are financial transactions and shares conducted without pre-trade transparency, otherwise referred to as non-displayed trades. the report, more broadly, is an assessment of the implementation of the markets in the financial instruments directive (mifid) of 2007 with respect to equities and seeks to address structural issues currently apparent in the equities markets. despite this being a highly technical report, i am encouraged by the high level of debate that has occurred in the committee. i am glad that the hard work of my colleagues has managed to establish a broad base of support across political groups, turning 194 amendments into 26 compromises, which most groups were able to sign up to. given the timing of this own-initiative report and its culmination in a plenary vote this week, i also believe that the european parliament has added significantly to the commission’s recently released consultation on the mifid ii review (mifid ii), which takes into account many of the issues raised in deliberations in the committee. the european parliament, through this report, has asked for a number of investigations into the different trading venues that are currently regulated under mifid and seeks a closer analysis to ensure that venues providing equivalent services are regulated to an equivalent level. i believe that the commission, in their consultation document, may have gone a step further in widening its definition of organised trading facilities to include all venues that bring together buyers and sellers. this means a significant loophole may be closed. yet this solution ensures that proportionality can be maintained in allowing for significant differentiation within the categories for regulated markets, mtfs, sis, bcns and derivative platforms. the new level of scrutiny being suggested for operators of dark pools should be welcomed by investors as, while they currently provide protection from the wider market, they at least have the potential for abuse. allowing regulators full access to business models should ensure that they can continue as a venue for the discretionary crossing of client orders without allowing them to expand to proportions that will affect price discovery or to provide a cover for market abuse. as well as this, in terms of mifid waivers, the european parliament and the commission agree that these need to be redefined and their implementation needs to be standardised across the eu. the possibility currently to arbitrage across eu member states to find the best interpretation of the same rule should no longer be a possibility. during the compilation of this report and its amendment, it was clear that the biggest deficit in mifid implementation has been the lack of a market version of a european consolidated tape. investors in the us cannot understand how we in the eu operate without such a tool. there has been general industry acceptance, particularly among investor groups, of its necessity but, for the three years since mifid implementation, the market participants have failed to come together to provide a european consolidated tape. like the commission, the committee on economic and monetary affairs is reticent to go beyond mandating the approved publication arrangements, but if a market solution is not found then legislation should be supported. the microstructural issues currently affecting the equity markets have been a topic of heated debate in committee. there has been agreement that practices like flash orders, spoofing and pinging are unfair or even abusive. however, the committee found it much harder to come to agreement on the role of certain market participants, in particular the benefits or not of high-frequency trading strategies. in the absence of clear data, it is difficult to draw any solid conclusions on their role – positive or negative – and so, before we propose legislative actions, we need to make sure that we have data so that we do not impose legislation that may be detrimental to the effective functioning of european markets. fundamentally, we must ensure the integrity of our financial markets. they are not there for intermediaries or the interlopers to interact with one another. they are there to provide a market place for investors to channel capital to businesses and corporates who act in our real economy. this fundamental function of the markets must be kept centre stage in all of our minds as we go through the legislative process of mifid ii.
mr president, pre-lisbon, post-lisbon, we have very little to be proud of. in europe you can still be discriminated against if you are a woman. we have heard it said here in the chamber today: a woman cannot choose what to do with her body. you can be discriminated against on the grounds of age, disability, religion, belief, sexual orientation. on the supply of goods and services there is no movement on the council directive. if you are in a same-sex partnership or a civil partnership or a marriage, you can be discriminated against by a member state on the precept of the concept of subsidiarity. on that basis you can promote inequality. we have a two-speed europe where some people are equal and others are not. we sit here and do nothing while we see rising xenophobia, racism, anti-semitism, homophobia and transphobia and, yes, look at what is happening to the roma. have we learnt nothing from the second world war? have we learnt nothing from the 1930s when we turned away and did nothing because people were different from us? can we not see that religion, decent religion, is being used as an excuse to increase discrimination against lgbt people in particular? can we not see that to diminish the rights of another is ultimately to diminish our own? we have nothing to be proud of.
mr president, i must refute the slight that was made by ms gál against socialists, saying that they have been undermining human rights. you cannot make challenges like that without being absolutely specific and bringing forward absolutely crucial, concrete-based evidence.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have been following the trilogues closely and would like to thank my colleagues, especially from the epp and s&d groups, for the work they have been doing. as a lawyer in the uk, i have had experience over the years of providing legal advice and support to people who have been victims of domestic abuse, stalking or harassment by a relative or a former partner. i have seen at first hand the distress that physical, psychological and sexual abuse can cause and the state of vulnerability of its victims. i fully support the aims and objectives of this proposal. however, i also have to express concerns regarding the legal base and scope. it seems clear to me that this proposal has a criminal base only, through the use of article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu. by their nature and by law, some of the offences that this proposal intends to cover are civil law matters, yet there is a noticeable absence of the use of article 81. whilst i do not object to eu legal cooperation, i strongly believe that we need to ensure that the legislation we produce at eu level is legally sound, robust and can be effectively implemented at member state level without compromising existing member state legal systems.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i support the protection of victims. however, when i first came across the european protection order, i thought it sounded scary, like the european arrest warrant, which in my opinion is one of the most intrusive and dictatorial pieces of legislation ever to be imposed on the british people. the proposal for the european protection order which is being touted says it is about the protection of women. we were told that the european arrest warrant was about helping to fight terrorism – and we all know it has gone on to be a lot more than that. let us be clear and honest here: the underlying goal is to put in place footings for a pan-european justice system which will undoubtedly undermine british law. if proof were needed, we only have to look at the european arrest warrant. i also see these orders as being extremely difficult to enforce in the uk, for we will end up in a situation whereby an order is handed down by a foreign judge in a foreign land who knows nothing about the conditions of a british town or our way of life. we have a saying in england: ‘once bitten, twice shy’. we have been bitten once by the european arrest warrant. i suggest that we shy away from the european protection order.
madam president, human trafficking is quite rightly a pejorative term because it describes a disgusting practice. human beings, disproportionately women, are treated as though they were commodities, even livestock, to be transported, used and often abused. however, the term is used too narrowly. very little legal economic migration is truly voluntary. most people, other things remaining equal, would prefer to remain with their own people in their own countries. they migrate for economic enrichment or because economic forces have removed their means of maintaining their livelihoods. migration is the by-product of global capitalism that sees people not as human beings, but as factors of production that are expendable. economic migration is as much a form of human trafficking as illicit migration organised by criminal networks. the human traffickers are the governments that quite deliberately unleash supposedly blind economic forces in the service of global capitalism. economies should exist to serve the people. people do not exist to serve economic forces.
madam president, this is no ordinary day for parliament. we should be proud of the historic step that has been taken today, both on human trafficking and, indeed, on the european protection order. for the first time, criminal law and all the tools we have at our disposal after lisbon have been brought into action on one of the most complex and horrific problems that we have to face collectively. we are proud, in the s&d group, of the work done by anna hedh and her co-rapporteur, ms bauer, and we are proud of the ‘firsts’ that are marked by this report. for the first time, the eu will define, in a binding legislative act, a high level of sanctions against trafficking. for the first time, there are strong guarantees concerning the protection of victims, special attention for child victims, the non-prosecution of victims who break the law due to their enslavement and the recognition of the role and support of ngos in the process. finally, the complexity of this cause in relation to children and women – because we were moving into criminal law – should not have been a reason to stop a very good report. we are very proud in our group that this has happened across the house. it is a very proud day for the whole parliament.
mr president, not for the first time in this chamber, i feel that i have fallen through some kink in the space-time continuum, some warp or tunnel that has led me back to the 1970s. here we are in a world of state control of industry, of price and income policies, of limited working hours and of subventions to unprofitable corporations. i can do no better than to read out the voting list of what we have been voting on today: subsidies to si/mura in slovenia, to heidelberger druckmaschinen ag in germany, to the automotive industry in wielkopolskie in poland, to the retail trade in aragón in spain, to the textile sector in the comunidad valenciana in spain, to the manufacture of natural stone products in the comunidad valenciana in spain, to lear in spain, and to h. cegielski – poznań in poland. in the 1970s, we used to talk about picking winners. what we are actually doing here is picking losers. we are making the eu step in with money where the free market has decreed a failure. why are we doing so? because the eu is now a mechanism for the redistribution of wealth to favoured client groups. mr president, you know as well as i do that this is nonsense. you were a brilliantly successful conservative leader in catalonia. you understand the importance of free peoples and free markets, and so do our voters. the money is running out. we are reaching the moment when, as in george orwell’s magnificent metaphor, the people will shake off the system like a horse shaking off flies.
mr president, human trafficking is a very serious issue. since 2008, 35 people have been rescued from exploitation in my own constituency of northern ireland; 25 of these were rescued in 2009. however, no one has yet been convicted of an offence of human trafficking. it is a form of modern-day slavery, a serious crime and a violation of a person’s fundamental human rights. indeed, many of the women taken or rescued in northern ireland are from the far east and are there through organised crime gangs who are making huge profits and exploiting these people both for labour and sexual exploitation. while there are many valuable aspects to this report, and i believe that this is an area where there can be considerable cooperation between national police forces – indeed the police force of northern ireland has been leading the way in this – i abstained in the eventual vote because i firmly believe that the setting of minimum tariffs is a matter for the member state alone.
mr president, i wanted to explain why my group and i abstained on the vote on the eu rapid response capability. the multiplication of major disasters outside the eu in recent years has led to increased calls to improve the effectiveness of the eu disaster response capacity. while i can agree with many of the excellent points raised in this report, i cannot support the call for the establishment of a new eu civil protection force. while i support calls for the eu to coordinate its response to humanitarian catastrophes with the wider development community, i can only support such developments when they take place within already existing mechanisms, such as the community’s civil protection mechanism. while it is extremely important that the eu responds effectively to humanitarian catastrophes, it is equally important that we are not the only ones responding. in addition to focusing our attention on improving the eu’s response, we must also focus on strengthening the capacity of developing countries and regions and sub-regional capacity in the affected area, so that we do this together as an international community. otherwise, we will be doing all the hard work and they will be doing nothing.
in writing. − i welcome this report which grants 31 million euros to portugal and 35 million euros to france from the eu solidarity fund. this is an important gesture of support following flooding and landslides in portugal in february, and destruction caused by the storm ‘xynthia’ on the atlantic coastline in france.
in writing. − i voted for this report which approves the transfer of 66 million euros from the european offshore wind grid system to the eu solidarity fund in order to help the victims of flooding in portugal and storms in france.
in writing. − i welcome the mobilisation of the european globalisation fund to help the 2 554 workers made redundant in the mura european fashion design enterprise in slovenia. i hope the 2.2 million euros will help the workers and the region recover quickly from the structural changes they are facing.
in writing. − the european globalisation fund was created in order to provide assistance for workers suffering the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the 1181 redundancies at four production sites of the enterprise druckmaschinen ag in baden württemberg (manufacturing of printing machinery sector) fall exactly into this category and i therefore supported the mobilisation of eur 8,308,555 to assist them.
in writing. − the commission has proposed granting eur 633 077 from the european globalisation fund to help 1104 workers made redundant in poland in two enterprises involved in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers. i voted for this proposal.
in writing. − the extent of the global downturn is revealed in this application from spain to mobilise eur 1,560,000 from the european globalisation fund to help 1154 people made redundant in 593 different retail enterprises over a nine month period. i supported this request.
in writing. − the textile industry is currently facing a challenging time all over europe. the commission proposes mobilising eur 1 422 850 in response to 528 redundancies in 33 enterprises in the sector in spain. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this application refers to the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 1 422 850 from the egf for spain. it concerns 528 redundancies in 66 enterprises operating in nace revision 2 division 23, namely ‘manufacture of non-metallic mineral products’, during the nine-month reference period from 31 march to 30 december 2009. the commission's assessment was based on: the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis; the unforeseen nature of the redundancies concerned; demonstration of the number of redundancies and compliance with the criteria of article 2(a); the explanation of the unforeseen nature of those redundancies; the identification of dismissing enterprises and workers targeted for assistance, the territory concerned and its authorities and stakeholders; the impact of the redundancies as regards local, regional or national employment; the co-ordinated package of personalised services to be funded, including its compatibility with actions funded by the structural funds; dates on which the personalised services to affected workers were started or planned to start; procedures for consulting the social partners, management and control systems. in accordance with commission’s assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the egf regulation and i therefore support it.
in writing. − the economic downturn in the automotive sector has led to 515 redundancies in the enterprise lear automotive (spain). i support the proposal to mobilise eur 382 200 from the european globalisation fund to assist them.
in writing. − i voted for this application for the european globalisation fund to assist 658 redundancies in the enterprise h. cegielski-poznań and four of its suppliers, which operate in the manufacture of marine diesel engines in poznań and the surrounding district. the commission proposed mobilising eur 114 250, and i support the proposal.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which intends to give long-term resident status to beneficiaries of international protection who have been residing legally on the territory of the eu for more than 5 years. this gives them an opportunity to integrate, which means being able to communicate in one of the official languages of their member state of residence, and to increase their awareness of their rights and obligations, as well as of the core values of the member state of residence. to this end, language training should be provided by the member state to long-term residents. member states should also be encouraged to develop training programmes about the fundamental laws and core values of the member state of residence and principles of democracy, human rights and equality, as well as individual rights and obligations in that member state.
in writing. − i supported this report on the eu-georgia agreement on the facilitation of issuance of visas. the process of deepening the relations between the eu and the countries of the south caucasus, including georgia, will undoubtedly contribute to improving the exercise of justice and the respect for freedoms. the two agreements recently concluded with georgia, one on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation and the other on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, will contribute fully to achieving these objectives
in writing. − i welcome this report which:recalls the pivotal role of the high representative/vice-president in coordinating eu operations in third countries and regions; underlines that the structure and working methods of the european external action service (eeas) should aim at ensuring the coherence and consistency of eu action in crisis situations; calls therefore on the council to grant the hr/vp a permanent mandate allowing her to activate a crisis cell, gathering representatives from all the appropriate services of the commission and the council and from all eu planning capabilities (mic, cmpd, eums, cpcc) to coordinate the eu response in the event of disaster, in order to be able to start work quickly without having to systematically go to the council; suggests that this cell could be supported by a team, deployable within the first hours of the crisis, could be composed of civilian (crt, mic), military and civ-mil (eums, cpcc) experts and could also benefit from sitcen and satcen intelligence; emphasises the need for optimal coordination between an eu disaster response and other eu instruments – particularly common security and defence policy (csdp) civil or military missions and instruments (i.e. battlegroups).
in writing. − i voted for this report. it seems that a significant consequence of the competition brought about by implementation of the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) has been market fragmentation which has, in itself, encouraged the explosive growth of hft strategies. regulation must reflect the fact that these technological advances are in need of suitable provisions in the legislation, so that they do not fall through regulatory gaps and inadvertently cause systemic risk to the overall functioning of the markets.
in writing. − this own-initiative report sets the framework for the discussion of mifid, to which the otc directive, the rise of esma and, of course, emir are related. even the name of this report allows people to understand the nature of necessary, but often complicated, regulatory changes. unregulated markets have been allowed unfiltered access by means of sponsorship to formal trading venues. this must change. similarly, i can agree with the rapporteur that pre-trade, post-trade transparency needs improvement, and particularly that post-trade data for non-equity products are provided in a form which is readily consolidated. understanding the market dynamics and equipping regulators with instruments plus information/data is vital.
in writing. − chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) risks present a new dimension of possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics due to their transnational character and mass scale victimisation. an appropriate response against such a danger does not include only ex post facto intervention programmes but starts much earlier when dealing with such materials, their proper storage, limited access, controls, etc. at the same time, an aftermath intervention demands large scale cooperation between different national authorities inside a member state (civil protection, military, law enforcement, etc.) as well as between national authorities of different member states and eu instances. therefore, an all-hazard coordinated approach is needed. i voted for this report which sets out such a coordinated approach.
in writing. − conservative meps abstained on the final vote on the mănescu report for the following reasons. firstly, the report promises to maintain a strongly-funded cohesion policy, whereas we believe that the cohesion and social funds should not be ring-fenced, and that the eu should rather concentrate spending on the new challenges it faces instead of old priorities such as cohesion policy. it is also our contention that the content of this report fails to provide meaningful progress in terms of more stringent and greater control over the funding allocated under these programmes; if anything, the proposals in this report only serve to further obfuscate delivery mechanisms and muddy the waters. we would also have liked to see the report cogently address the issues raised by the european court of auditors related to such funding, which it singularly fails to do. consequently, conservative meps have abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − over the last decades decentralisation of powers in several member states has considerably reinforced regional and local authorities’ competences in the delivery of community policies. the incorporation by the reform treaty of sub-national subsidiarity into the community law for the policies of shared competence allows today territorial authorities to be more deeply involved in the decision-making process both for the design and the implementation of policies, as fully dignified partners to participate in achieving the community objectives. this important step towards better multi-level governance answers repeated requests by the parliament to reinforce the involvement of the sub-national authorities in the conception of policies, always respecting the different national constitutional assets. an efficient implementation depends strongly on how policies are conceived; involving local and regional authorities also in this phase – as those knowing best the needs of their territory and of its population – is an assurance of more effective results at a later stage. it is crucial to place the emphasis on the pre-legislative phase of the decision-making process and on the added value offered by policies and best practices implemented at local and regional level to the development of territorial strategies in the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it makes important calls on the commission to strengthen its monitoring role in order to reduce the error rate highlighted in the recent report by the court of auditors. the commission should also consult local and regional authorities at all stages of legislation relating to the regions to make them more accountable in producing a more results-oriented policy. this should also help to reduce the level of error, improve control systems and increase assistance to sub-national authorities and beneficiaries. i feel this report goes a long way to promoting better cooperation between regions in different member states, which will only have a positive effect in achieving the aims of cohesion policy across the eu and ensuring that all european union regions develop harmoniously.
in writing. − the proposal amending council regulation (ec) no 337/2004 aims to harness the know-how and experience of immigration liaison officers for the benefit of frontex and vice-versa, which was not a matter addressed in the original regulation. the amending proposal has the following objectives: harnessing of the know-how of liaison officers and of frontex for their mutual benefit; exploitation of the information obtained through the liaison officer networks and exchange of this via iconet (secure information and coordination network for member states’ migration management services); accessing of the external borders fund to promote the creation of liaison officer networks and facilitate their operation and, lastly, to expedite the system for the presentation of the half-yearly reports. i welcome this measure.
in writing. − in 2001, the commission submitted a proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of paid employment and self-employed economic activities. despite a favourable opinion from the european parliament, this ambitious proposal, which sought to establish the entry and residence conditions for third-country nationals wishing to undertake an economic activity within the union, did not survive beyond its first reading within the council, and the commission officially withdrew it in 2006. i welcome the fact that the new legal basis provided by the lisbon treaty gives this proposal a good chance of being adopted.
in writing. − the ecr group fully supports the aims and objectives of the proposed european protection order and we are keen to see that victims of violence, terrorism, domestic abuse, stalking and/or harassment are protected if and when they move throughout the eu. the ecr group is sympathetic to the distress that physical, psychological and or sexual abuse can cause and the state of vulnerability in which it leaves its victims. we were not able to vote in favour of the report today due to our concerns over the legal base and scope of the directive. this proposal has a criminal law basis; however, some of the offences that this proposal intends to cover are a civil law matters, yet there is an absence of the use of article 81 of the tfeu. the ecr group is concerned about how effectively this proposal would be implemented and what message this anomaly sends out to the eu public about how we make law here. the ecr group strongly believes that the legislation we produce at eu level must be legally sound and robust and should not compromise member states’ legal systems. for these reasons the ecr group abstained on this report.
in writing. − the proposal for a directive on the european protection order, submitted by 12 member states, is an initiative aimed at preventing crime. even when member states have provided for protection orders for victims, the resulting enforcement measures stop at the border of the issuing state. victims, however, may move from one member state to another for many reasons, not least to escape crime. because they move in this way, they are defenceless when judicial and law enforcement cooperation fails to protect them by implementing a rapid, effective europe-wide early warning and prevention mechanism. setting up a cooperation arrangement along these lines is the aim that has given rise to this initiative. the action taken by member states shows that crime can be prevented at european level when the aggressor or aggressors are identified.
in writing. − ukip condemns all forms of human trafficking as a modern day version of slavery and calls for the toughest penalties within the uk on such activity. however ukip voted against this report as we cannot legitimise giving more power to the eu on matters such as criminal law and border protection. this proposal was for the eu to decide minimum sentences in member states for a crime, and that is simply not a matter for the eu. it should be up to elected national governments to decide such penalties individually and to work with other countries to help stamp human trafficking out. the eu also exacerbates the problem of people trafficking. as there is freedom of movement within the eu and open borders, along with a single currency, organised crime is allowed to operate much more effectively unchecked. if member states had proper border controls and checks, this would go a long way to help disrupt the operation of such evil criminal organisations. the eu is actually part of the problem, not the solution.
in writing. − ukip condemns all forms of human trafficking as a modern-day version of slavery, and calls for the toughest penalties within the uk on such activity. however, ukip voted against this report as we cannot legitimise giving more power to the eu on matters such as criminal law and border protection. this proposal was for the eu to decide minimum sentences in member states for a crime, and that is simply not a matter for the eu. it should be up to elected national governments to decide such penalties individually and to work with other countries to help stamp out human trafficking. the eu also exacerbates the problem of people trafficking. as there is freedom of movement within the eu and open borders, along with a single currency, organised crime is allowed to operate much more effectively unchecked. if member states had proper border controls and checks, this would go a long way to help disrupt the operation of such evil criminal organisations. the eu is actually part of the problem, not the solution.
in writing. − the ecr group strongly believes that in the 21st century it is simply abominable that slavery still exists on our continent, and believes that people-trafficking will only be combated if all nations work together at the highest levels to prevent it. current eu legislation is out-dated and far from effective; the ecr group supports its revision. the ecr group today voted in support of this directive, which focuses on cross-border cooperation to prevent and combat this heinous crime of trafficking human beings. the ecr group did request split votes on articles 4(1), 4(2) and 15(4) and voted against these specific articles, as it does not believe that the eu should set maximum criminal penalties; nor does it believe in specifying a criminal offence, as is done in article 15(4). the ecr group supported the resolution overall and the text amended by the libe and femm committees.
in writing. − trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery, a serious crime and a severe violation of fundamental human rights which reduces people to a state of dependency via threats, violence and humiliation. trafficking in human beings is also an extremely profitable business for organised crime, with high profit possibilities and limited risk-taking. it may take many forms such as sexual exploitation, forced labour, illegal trade in human organs, begging (including the use of a dependent person for begging), illegal adoptions and domestic work. the scale of this phenomenon is impressive, but certainly not known in full. the treaty of lisbon has strengthened eu action in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, including in combating trafficking in human beings. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has become co-legislator in this area and has a full role to play. i supported this report.
in writing. − i welcome this report which is the sister of the report on the issuance of visas between the eu and georgia. the package should ease travel and improve the eu’s relations in this part of the world.
in writing. − an improved quality of life through the creation of secure and better-quality jobs and ensuring access to infrastructure of all types – be this transport, social or educational or relating to research, development and innovation – has been the main reason for the public supporting the process of european integration. cohesion policy can ensure the cohesive development of the eu through its specific objectives and instruments, hence satisfying the economic and social needs of the european public. at the same time, the eu member states are being directly confronted with the effects of globalisation. this report, entitled ‘achieving real territorial, social and economic cohesion within the eu – a sine qua non for global competitiveness?’ is intended to spur debate among the members of the european parliament on the interdependence and complementary nature of the measures adopted at european and national level to fulfil the objectives of eu policies, including that of increasing global economic competitiveness. the report seeks to provide a framework highlighting the integrating role of cohesion policy and the contribution it makes to increasing the eu’s global competitiveness. i welcome the report and the debate.
in writing. − this report sets out parliament’s plans to better coordinate eu structural funding and european innovation spending as a way of tackling differences between levels of development in regions across the eu, and to sustain regional competitiveness. i support these calls, along with further calls to simplify the procedures relating to this funding, in particular for smes which we should be assisting in the current economic climate by reducing the administrative burden placed upon them. this report also lays down important markers underlining the importance of the principle of decentralisation (the ‘bottom-up’ approach) with a view to improving the ‘partnership principle’ with local authorities who are often best placed to recognise the needs of citizens across the eu, and especially in wales.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr barroso, the recent wikileaks storm has led to mixed feelings, with some people saying transparency is good and others saying perhaps the leaks will damage international diplomacy. however, i was particularly amused by the references to you in wikileaks, where it mentioned your trip to russia and the fact that you were ignored and excluded and the russian view from upon high that you were nothing more than a glorified international civil servant. mr barroso, remember: we have discussed this before here. i have pointed out to you again and again that you have not been directly elected by the people and you therefore have no real legitimacy. is the fact that you are unelected the reason why you do not command more respect on the global stage, and why increasingly the peoples of europe are holding you and the entire commission in contempt?
on behalf of the efd group. – well, mr barroso, i enjoyed that enormously! that you can stand up and boast about the fact that you were elected in secret and that somehow this gives you democratic legitimacy is the most bizarre concept i have come across in my entire life. the fact is that the commission has the sole right to propose the kind of legislation that is damaging europe’s economies in the way that it is. are there are any circumstances in which you think the peoples of europe should have a referendum so that they can decide these issues? (interjections from the floor from various members)
president of the commission. − the election in parliament was an open election. however, many people consider that the freest elections are elections where each person – or each member of parliament – can take decisions secretly. in totalitarian systems, secret votes are usually not allowed, precisely because of the pressure on individual freedoms. that is my first point. secondly, regarding referenda, constitutional and democratic theory allows for referenda as well as for representative democracy. by the way, britain is probably the country that has done most for representative democracy. a perfectly legitimate way of making decisions in a democracy is by representative democracy. the role of parliaments, be it national parliaments or the european parliament, is immensely important in democracy. personally, i believe that some comments made against representative democracy do not reflect a true democratic mind when they are made so negatively.
china enjoys a large surplus on its balance of trade with the eu. europe’s surplus in services is too small to compensate for this. china achieves its trade surplus by an artificially low value of its currency, by suppressed wage rates so that imports into china cannot be afforded and so that export prices are considerably lower than european prices, and thirdly by ignoring international patent rights so that chinese companies can benefit from research and development not carried out by themselves. china is rapidly accumulating foreign currency reserves and control over scarce global resources. european countries are becoming the willing victims of a relentless global competitor with the instrument to destruct our livelihoods. european countries must individually – my preference – or collectively protect our industries. why does the commission allow eu business and workers to suffer unfair competition from china?
president of the commission. − let me tell you that we will be much more successful if we do it collectively rather than separately. frankly, i do not see that our individual member states have enough leverage to impose some kind of measures on china. the european union collectively can engage with china, and that is what we have been doing. we are in favour of free trade, as you know, but we are also in favour of fair trade. when we have believed there is evidence of dumping for instance, we have launched anti-dumping measures regarding china. it was not easy because some member states opposed those measures, but we took them. every time we meet the chinese leadership we discuss intellectual property rights and the need for them to respect some basic principles so that we can keep open trade with them. that is exactly our agenda: to engage the chinese positively whilst also being firm in terms of our trade interests. by the way, this was quite clearly expressed at the last summit.
you said that you believed in fair trade, but fair trade is not on offer. what we have is biased trade in favour of china. will the commission be successful in getting china to remove its subsidies, allow its currency to appreciate or, for that matter, to respect international property rights which apparently amount to something like 5% of chinese gdp? will it not be necessary in the end to block imports of chinese goods altogether?
the president of the commission has given fulsome answers on wikileaks. can i ask him about something on which his views have not yet been leaked by wikileaks? president, you answered questions on the issuance of eurobonds to provide current spending for governments. i understand and i share some of the concerns expressed about such a course of action. however, do you not recognise the capacity for borrowing which exists as a result of the sound management of the euro? since mr oettinger tells us he needs eur 1 000 billion over 10 years for energy infrastructure investment – that is about eur 100 billion a year to help tackle the twin challenge of climate change and energy security – and since that would be extremely ambitious for the european investment bank to take on, could you not bring forward proposals for the issuance of eurobonds to finance investment in infrastructure rather than to finance current government spending?
there has been a lot of publicity on this particular issue all over europe. one of the things that concerns people is what this is going to mean for the future of cyber security right across the eu. i do not believe that many people are too concerned about the individual involved here. what they are concerned about is how this is going to play out across europe. i just think that it is important that the eu should have a policy on this. i would urge the commission to involve as many partners in these discussions as possible, not only at member state level but also at other levels of government right across the eu so that, for example, cyber security is an important issue for regional and local governments as well.
president barroso, you have made various statements, including the statement this afternoon, about how the eu and its member states respect fundamental rights and the rule of law, but the inquiry on extraordinary rendition, of which mr coelho was the chair and i was the vice-chair, reported prima facie evidence that around a dozen eu and other european countries had colluded in war on terror abuses, such as disappearance and torture. frankly, i am afraid you gave a rather waffly answer to mr coelho. we believed that the commission and the council had not respected article 6 of the treaty and we urged them to ascertain the truth about what had happened and to take action if appropriate under article 7, which means sanctions of human rights abuses. frankly there has been no result. this leaves the eu open to the charge of hypocrisy. what will you do now to get full political and legal accountability for european collusion in human rights abuses in the name of the so-called war on terror?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i will be brief to compensate for the time that mr portas took. many members in this chamber will congratulate themselves on having obtained a 2.9% increase for the eu budget 2011. others instead will complain that this is not enough. i, for one, deplore the fact that this parliament ignores the crisis that europeans are going through and only looks to satisfy its own ambitions. i, for one, regret that mr cameron approves such an increase while imposing severe cuts in the british budget, a situation that has started to generate civil unrest. this money is not going to improve the economy of those member states, nor is it going to provide jobs for those who are losing them, but if kept in britain it would avoid the need to increase the tuition fees for example. of course we will not vote in favour of this budget as increased.
mr president, i am obviously pleased that parliament has finally come to its senses, accepted what to many of us was inevitable all along and settled for a 2.9% increase, although i have to say for many of us that does not go far enough. many of us would have liked to have seen a freeze – or perhaps in our wildest optimism a reduction – in the eu budget because the less money that the eu spends, the less it interferes in the lives of ordinary citizens. this is obviously a good result for david cameron, for mark rutte, but it is also a victory for the hard-pressed taxpayers of europe who have to pay all the bills of the eu institutions. at a time of austerity, at a time of cutbacks in most member states, it was frankly madness for this parliament to be trying to increase eu spending by 6%. i am pleased that there has been at least some modicum of common sense. to those who believe in the european project and who believe in european integration – and i am not particularly one of them – you did your cause more damage than anybody else could have done by trying to insist on this ridiculous increase in eu spending when everybody else, every other public institution in europe, is seeing the pain of cutbacks. you have damaged your cause immeasurably.
mr president, i cannot vote for any increase in the parliament’s budget, and i believe that many people in the united kingdom will be watching the proceedings here in utter amazement. in national economies across europe we have austerity measures and budget cuts. these are the order of the day and this is what our people have to face. the euro is in crisis, and i want the house to note that even though my constituency does not use the euro we share a land border with the republic of ireland. the republic represents a huge export market for us, so this crisis hurts our people as well. beside all this crisis, we have a proposed 2.9% increase, limited from the 6% that parliament already wanted, but on a budget that the court of auditors has not passed for many years. most worryingly of all, we have a promise from the commission to bring forward proposals by june 2011 for an eu tax. is it any wonder that euroscepticism is growing?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank mr gauzès for his excellent work on this issue. i am satisfied that articles 8a and 8b have been deleted during the trilogue. the commission's initial proposal was to create secure websites. i've never been convinced. we will be able to observe developments in the united states and if it appears that the sites are useful, we can always introduce them here in europe later. mr president, i am pleased to inform you that my group will vote on this matter tomorrow and i thank mr gauzès again.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have absolutely no interest in football but occasionally i have seen pictures of a game, and i have looked at the manager and thought of the commissioner. two-one down and, despite her best efforts, her team faces relegation; then a goal is scored. i do not know who scores it – maybe the goalkeeper on the opposite side walks into the net carrying his own ball – but one way or another it is a draw; a vital point is secured and relegation is avoided. it is not a triumph, but it is not a defeat; and the manager lives to fight another day. i am told that, at cancún, a great cheer went up when there was a resolution to the negotiations. i can understand the relief of delegates there of it not being a defeat, but it was hardly a triumph. where is the mention of curbing the rise in temperatures by 2015? where is the ambition to cut co2 emissions by 50% by 2050? where are the post-kyoto commitments? fudged and dodged and kicked into the long grass. but criticism is easy; what is being attempted has never been done before. it requires the governments of the world to join together in collective action; that, of course, is why the critics on the nationalist right hate it so much. every government in the world accepts the science and accepts that we are not doing enough to stop world temperatures rising by two degrees centigrade. even china, this time, recognised that there are limits to national sovereignty and accepted that there should be international verification of its emissions because we are in this together: one race, one species on a single planet. there are some very difficult questions to be answered as we go forward. how do we move from here to make a post-kyoto binding agreement that places requirements not just upon developed countries but also upon developing countries? how do we secure the funding? really, how do we get the money that we promised for adaptation and forest protection? how do we persuade our own governments to raise our 2020 ambitions from 20% to 30% cuts in co2? but maybe we have an answer to that. with china well on its way to reducing its carbon intensity by 45%, it is in our economic interest to make sure that we take these measures, or we are going to be left behind economically. maybe now, thanks to our not being defeated at cancún, we have the momentum – the sense that we are going forward again – to make the changes that are necessary.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i was not fortunate enough to be on the parliament delegation in cancún, but i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate everyone who was involved. i was perhaps a bit of a cynic about whether these sorts of meetings could achieve anything but, whilst there have been many voices in the press complaining about lack of detail, particularly – as jo leinen suggests – about lack of detail in the area of financing for the green fund and many other issues that have been left unspecified at this stage, i take the optimistic view that this gathering was not the time or the place for dealing with minute detail, but was the time to flesh out the global aspirations and talk a bit about strategy, and i think that has been achieved. in my group, the ecr, we believe in light-touch government. we believe that you will achieve more by encouragement, not by haranguing, and i believe that this is a step closer to that. i can do no better than to close with the words of my prime minister, david cameron, when he said yesterday ‘the cancún agreement is a very significant step forward in renewing the determination of the international community to tackle climate change through multilateral action.’ i congratulate every one of my colleagues here who was involved in achieving that.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – is é an príomhchuspóir atá le baint amach fós ná comhaontú domhanda atá dlíthiúil agus uaillmhianach agus é mar chuspóir aige an méadú ar an teocht a choinneáil faoi 2 °c, i gcomparáid le leibhéil réamhthionsclaíocha, nó fiú faoi 1.5°c. is céim ina threo sin an méid a aontaíodh i gcancún. aontaím leo siúd a deir inniu go bhfuil a lán le déanamh againn fós. caithfidh na rialtais tógáil ar an obair sin anois. caithfear na bearnaí a líonadh. caithfear tabhairt faoi na ceisteanna deacra sa chlár oibre agus caithfear spriocanna a leagan síos anois atá i bhfad níos daingne, níos soiléire agus ceangailteach. caithfear cloí leis na spriocdhátaí idir seo agus cop 17 san afraic theas. mar sin, gabhaim buíochas chomh maith leis an gcomhairle agus leis an gcoimisiún as an méid atá bainte amach againn ach tá obair dheacair romhainn fós. san eoraip, caithfimid aontú láithreach bonn ar laghdú 30%, ar a laghad, ar sceitheadh co2 san eoraip, ní amháin ar mhaithe le comhaontú idirnáisiúnta ach ar ár son féin.
mr president, as carbon crooks and one world government conspirators celebrate their advances at cancún, uk prime minister dave cameron declared his satisfaction with the outcome. at the end of the coldest first half of december in central england since records began in 1772, dave is satisfied that the green climate fund will cost british taxpayers gbp 2.9 billion on top of the gbp 18.3 billion a year that the climate change act siphons from british consumers for the corporate crooks in the green industrial complex. coincidently, gbp 2.9 billion is also the amount the treasury will save by increasing the debts of british students, condemning them to a lifetime of bondage to the banks. that scam has already caused student riots. taxpayer riots over far bigger scams – bail-outs to corrupt and incompetent banks, propping up the zombie euro and the global warming hoax – are yet to come, but come they will and, unlike prince charles and camilla, their targets will deserve everything they get.
mr president, i do not think it is a conspiracy to say that we are one world sharing one planet and i think what i got out of cancún was the reality of all those people working together. one of the best parts of being in cancún was sitting on those buses going to and from the conference centre and listening to the delegates who would tell you about what they are doing: the zambians working with the russians working with the japanese and the chinese negotiator to get an agreement. we share one planet and we have no future unless we work together. i want to thank the council and the commission for the work they did. europe did speak with one voice and, from our meetings with different delegations, it was very clear that europe’s leadership was appreciated and people were very aware that we had a 20% target but were thinking of moving to 30%. i wonder what the commissioner thinks now of the prospects for being more ambitious before durban because, from what we heard, i think that what europe says in durban will count.
mr president, i hope everyone enjoyed cancún. it is a lovely place but i am a bit disappointed to see that none of them has a suntan. well, i suppose that is to be expected really because, while many of you were out there lecturing us on how we need to change our lifestyles to combat global warming, it was actually the coldest week that mexican city had seen for over a hundred years. back in the uk we have also had the spectacle of scientists trying to suggest that one of the coldest novembers we have seen in the last hundred years was actually caused by global warming. do these people think we were born yesterday? this also explains why even more british people now believe that global warming is a scam and a way to raise taxes and exert control. but what have you actually achieved in cancún beyond handing over masses of taxpayers’ money in the guise of the green climate fund, which i suggest will end up being a lucky bag for african dictators to buy themselves more mercedes benzes and private jets? personally i think the name of the green climate fund should be changed, and i think the ‘politics of envy fund’ would be better and closer to the truth. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
every government in the world accepted at cancún the science that man’s activities are changing the climate. every government in the world agreed that, if we do not take action, more action, we will not be able to prevent world temperatures rising by more than 2°c. what does the honourable gentleman know that the rest of the world does not?
you are giving the game away there, because what you are talking about is world governments, politicians. we are talking about scientists here. science is a slow process, evidence has to be studied and deciphered, but politics is a quicker game and politics is running ahead of the science; that is where the problem lies. the fact of the matter is that the globe is actually not warming; it has not warmed since 1998. so the game is up, people are finding out that you have a problem. what you are doing is conning people; it is a scam and the people are finding you out.
the next item is question time (b7-0655/2010). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question 16 by tiziano motti (h-0587/10) subject: european parliament declaration of 23 june 2010 on setting up a european early warning system (ews) for paedophiles and sex offenders on 23 june 2010 the european parliament adopted a resolution ‘setting up a european early warning system (ews) for paedophiles and sex offenders’. the commission had already, on 22 may 2007, published a communication entitled ‘towards a general policy on the fight against cyber crime’. parliament called on the council and the commission to act on the commission communication of may 2007 and also to implement directive 2006/24/ec of the european parliament and the council of 15 march 2006 on the retention of data generated or processed in connection with the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or of public communications networks and to extend its scope with a view to setting rules on preservation of the data of anyone who has uploaded internet content, so as to enable the police and judiciary to tackle online child pornography and sex offending rapidly and effectively. would the commission please outline the action taken on this resolution?
we now come to question 17 by ms matera, who is sitting in position 666. it does not suit you!
colleagues, we now have 40 minutes until the closing time of 20.30 and so i propose to divide that time between vice-president reding and mr füle. the first question is to mrs reding. colleagues, please make the calculation as to whether or not your question will be reached. i apologise that we have a short time tonight because of the overrunning of the last debate but i intend to stop at 20.30 to allow the interpreters to have their supper. i personally will be here till midnight. part two
question 19 by georgios papanikolaou (h-0572/10) subject: costs for member states arising from interpretation, translation and information rights in criminal proceedings the regulation on interpretation and translation rights recently adopted by the council and on the information rights of defendants which is currently being examined are two basic measures of the road map proposed by the commission to strengthen defendants' rights of defence. will the commission say: given that it is foreseen, inter alia, that member states shall bear the entire translation, interpretation and information costs, what are the expected financial impact on and financial burden for member states arising from the provision of such services? member states, such as greece and malta, receive large numbers of illegal migrants and are expected to face particularly heavy costs from the provision of translation, interpretation and information services relating to criminal charges and the training of police officers and prosecutors. is the commission expected to contribute to help these countries and provide them with financial assistance so that they do not have to bear the entire cost of providing these services to illegal migrants involved in legal proceedings? if so, which criteria will be used to fix the level of such aid and determine which countries will be eligible?
i am sorry but the questions by ms harkin, mr cashman, mr mirsky and mr crowley will not be reached tonight. they will receive an answer in writing. as i said earlier, we are running late because of the over-running of the previous debate. we now move to questions to mr füle.
the problem is that, under rule 116, if a member is not in his place at the point at which a question should be replied to, then the question lapses. attempts were made by the staff, although they do not have to, to call your office but there was no reply. i realise that there are difficulties but question time started 20 minutes late. i gave each commissioner 20 minutes each. mrs reding had 20 minutes, she answered two questions, and we had agreed to move on to mr füle at 20.10. mr posselt, i am very sorry. i shall take the two supplementaries and we will see where we get then.
question 24 by bernd posselt (h-0569/10) subject: cooperation between vojvodina and eastern croatia how does the commission view the potential for greater cross-border cooperation between the serbian province of vojvodina and eastern croatia (osijek/eastern slavonia region), with particular regard to the development of cross-border infrastructure such as the project to construct a motorway from sombor to osijek? question 26 by georgios koumoutsakos (h-0581/10) subject: the rise of an increasingly virulent form of nationalism in albania and its prospects of eu accession for a very long time the main feature of political life in albania has been the extreme fragility of its government. this instability is having an adverse effect on the process of far-reaching institutional reform needed if it is to join the eu. amid this climate of prolonged political uncertainty, one cause for special concern is the rise of a particularly virulent form of fanatical nationalism both in the media and in society, especially among young people. to give specific examples of this: the murder of an albanian citizen of greek origin in himarë last august; acts of vandalism at bobostiticë cemetery in which wreaths laid as a mark of respect were burned; and the repeated, intemperate verbal attacks by part of the 'mainstream' albanian press directed at the head of the orthodox church of albania. in view of the above, will the commission say:is it aware of the specific events outlined above? is it concerned about the rise in fanatical nationalism? will it make appropriate representations to the albanian government to tackle this problem? and finally, will all this alter the progress of albania's bid to join the eu?
mr paleckis, would you like to make a comment about belarus?
commissioner, that is three questions. you have a maximum of three minutes please.
mr paleckis, i felt it was important to get your comments on belarus on the record, given the ongoing election. i apologise to mr madlener, to ms theocharous and to mr hadjigeorgiou, who are also present. their questions have not been reached. they will get a reply in writing. mr madlener, there really is no time.
mr madlener, under my chairmanship we always try and end at 20.30. it has now run on for seven minutes due to the length of the replies and the fact that the previous debate overran by 20 minutes. it is not my fault, but i do think it is important that the staff get their food before they come back at 21.00. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.40 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to pay tribute to mr bendtsen who has worked extremely hard on this report and cooperated closely with the shadows from other parties. he has succeeded in bringing parliamentarians together on this issue and he deserves warm congratulations. energy saving ticks an awful lot of boxes. first of all, climate change. cancún has reminded us how much we need to do, and energy saving is the cheapest and easiest way of moving to a 30% reduction in greenhouse gases. secondly, energy security. i was in zaghreb last week discussing croatia’s accession with liberal colleagues, and they told me that croatia imports 50% of its energy and also uses twice as much energy as it would do if proper energy efficiency measures were in place. now that energy is a shared european competence under the lisbon treaty, energy efficiency must also be a shared responsibility. by doing more on energy saving we are also tackling the very practical problems that people face in their lives. too many people are living in fuel poverty, struggling to keep warm in houses that are not properly insulated. making homes more energy-efficient puts money in people’s pockets to spend in the local economy at this time of financial and economic difficulty. it would also create many thousands of jobs in the local economy. so, given all these positive effects, it comes as a great shock to realise that the 20% energy efficiency target is the one part of the 2020 package which is currently heading for failure, as the commissioner said. indeed the latest figures show that we are on target to reach only 9% of the projected 20% by 2020. and the time has come i think for us to put up our hands and admit that we got it wrong in 2008. we should have made the target binding then, and we really need to go forward now and find ways of making it possible. i thank the commissioner for having given us an insight into what he is preparing for the next year. i think the time has come to make a political decision here that we have to have a binding energy-saving target because without it we are actually undermining everything else that we do on the economy, on energy security and on climate change.
mr president, thank you to mr bendtsen for mentioning the construction industry in his opening remarks. i would just to bring to his attention that my report on construction products will be voted upon in january and we did discuss energy efficiency in that report too. however, two quick points. mr swoboda mentioned the importance of local authorities. i just wanted to bring to the house’s attention the sensitivity at the moment, certainly in the uk, of budgetary cuts that are affecting local authorities. i think we need to bring that into the debate and the discussions which will come about. i also want to ask a question to the commission. in the report we talk about the importance of smart meters and it gives a date of the end of 2011 for the minimum common functionalities. will we be able to achieve this, commissioner? i am sorry we do not have anybody from the presidency this evening, but i think that is important. i would also add to previous speakers in raising the issue about energy poverty, which i think all in this house would agree is vitally important to emphasise.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 15 december 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by anja weisgerber, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directives 71/317/eec, 71/347/eec, 71/349/eec, 74/148/eec, 75/33/eec, 76/765/eec, 76/766/eec, and 86/217/eec regarding metrology (com(2008)0801 – c6-0467/2008 – 2008/0227(cod)) (a7-0050/2010).
mr president, first of all i want to join in the thanks to anja weisgerber who is a stalwart member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and has done a number of these very technical reports with great diligence, and this is a good example of that. i think that when she started on this work, which was soon after the elections last year, we all felt that what appeared at first sight to be a deceptively simply proposal from the commission to repeal what appeared on the surface to be outdated legislation would probably be dealt with relatively quickly and without much argument. the time that this has taken and the relative complexity of the solution show that deregulation and cutting red tape are nothing like as easy as people think. it is very easy to come up with these facile phrases about deregulation, but in the real world there are always people who want to keep regulation in place. as soon as this proposal hit the council we began to realise some of the deep-seated problems that existed from country to country. there were countries which had problems with measuring the weight of ships, or alcohol meters, or tyre pressure gauges. everyone had their own particular issue. my conclusion overall is not about the value of the proposal, because in a few months we will have the alternative proposal which will make effectively make this one outdated, and we could almost have waited for that. my appeal to the commissioner is that the commission does need to look at its impact assessment and its homework on deregulation proposals much more deeply and get member states to engage with them before coming up with these proposals. on reflection i think we could have spent more time on that had we been allowed to do so. it is a success for the committee, but i would say a qualified success, and we need to learn the lessons from that as we go forward.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 15 december 2010).
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on safety of toys by andreas schwab, anja weisgerber, marianne thyssen, anna maria corazza bildt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats), evelyne gebhardt, christel schaldemose, anna hedh, barbara weiler, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, cristian silviu buşoi, jürgen creutzmann, antonyia parvanova, nadja hirsch, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, heide rühle, on behalf of the group of the greens/european free alliance, malcolm harbour, on behalf of the european conservatives and reformists (o-0195/2010 - b7-0658/2010).
author. − mr president, i think the importance of the question that we are addressing tonight is the fact that this committee continues to be extremely vigilant about issues related to the safety of toys, as indeed it does on the whole gamut of consumer goods. so we put a huge amount of effort into passing the revised toys directive in 2009. but things do not stop there, and that is why i think it is a welcome opportunity to give you, the commission, the chance to reassure us that you are keeping a very close eye on developments, on test results, and ensuring that the provisions of the existing legislation and the future legislation will continue to be updated to reflect the growing amount of scientific evidence about potentially hazardous chemicals. and that, of course, includes the need for consistent testing methods. part of the issue here is that, in many cases, we find that toy manufacturers are faced with difficulties about getting some consistent standards against which to test, and i know that is something that you will address. but i also want to pick up the broader issue because i think, as a number of my colleagues have said, the issue here is not just about the regulation, it is about the whole supply chain for toys, much of which come from outside the european union. i was recently invited by your colleague, commissioner dalli, to represent the committee on the internal market and consumer protection at a major trilateral summit between the americans and the europeans in china to talk about toy safety. and one of the important things that we did there and that the european commission did – and i give them credit – was to talk to chinese manufacturers about designing safety into the product from the beginning: the knowledge of those directives. this is nothing to do with marking, it is nothing to do with third-party testing; it is actually the basic principles of transferring information and knowledge so that we get safety designed into the products from the beginning. and then those safe products are sustained in production by proper quality systems, not just for the toy itself but for all its suppliers. now that is how we ensure safety. it is not going to be about marking. it is about the right regulatory framework, which means getting everybody in the supply chain to understand their responsibilities.
mr president, the subject of toy safety is important to all families across the european union. while it is a parent’s duty to ensure the safety of the children they have responsibility for, they need to be secure in the knowledge that the toys their children are playing with are safe. in fact i have brought some with me this evening just to remind us what some toys look like. therefore this easy-osy attitude to toy safety, and the fact that we are here at 11.30 at night to again ask questions about toy safety, does not rest well with me. so what has to be done? i would like to know from the commission which companies directly selling or distributing toys have been successfully prosecuted for misusing the ce marking? on the subject of market surveillance, owing to the austerity measures impacting on many member states it is the very organisations that are there to protect consumers which are disappearing, merging with other cash-strapped organisations, and having their funding withdrawn and their powers diminished. at a local level – often the front line in the battle against unsafe toys – budget cuts will impact on the effectiveness of trading standards. can the commission and council investigate whether these cuts will breach commitments made in the general product safety directive regarding effective resourcing, and what monitoring is being applied to ensure that member states are protecting children from unsafe toys? to this end, will the commission be bringing forward any legislation on the common european framework for market surveillance? as in the question tonight, people have acknowledged the job of rapex. however, it is resource-constrained and there is more that can be done to exchange information and withdraw dangerous products from the market as quickly as possible. what support is being given to the sharing of best practice between surveillance officers in the european union? in addition, will the commission introduce a comprehensive eu-wide database on accident and injury, introducing this in the first instance for children and toy-related harm, so that unsafe products can be removed from the market as soon as is physically possible? i hope that in 2011 we will see improved commitment to tackling the problem of unsafe toys on the european market once and for all.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i share the hope that measures will be agreed at the european council to reassure the markets and reintroduce stability to the eurozone, because, whether we are members or not, we should all have an interest in that. ahead of the meeting we are told that more sanctions are to be a central part of the solution, but sanctions need to be credible to be effective and the track record of the union in this regard is pretty bad. making them automatic will hardly make them more credible if the belief remains that a political solution might be found to avoid them. what is really required is for eurozone members to have the political will to deliver on their current obligations. we hear rumours that a key part of the solution is to make the private sector share the burden of future bail-outs. it would however be a terrible paradox if the main consequence of such an initiative would be to raise borrowing costs for some of the weaker eurozone member states and contribute to the next crisis. having just finished a major reform treaty process, a reform package, we are told, would close the book on treaty change for a generation. we are now, just a matter of months later, apparently to embark on another. we are reassuringly told, including by the commission president, that the changes need only be limited, but that does not appear to be what the german government believes. the german finance minister, dr schäuble seems to have opened the door to a new round of integration leading to a fiscal union and, ultimately, a political union. where is this going to end? surely not another lost decade focusing on the wrong kind of reforms? europe needs economic reform, public finance discipline, deepening the internal market, changes to labour laws to boost employment, and a package of measures to make a success of the europe 2020 programme. these are the key reforms, boldly and rightly set out by president barroso in the programme for his commission, but already i fear this opportunity may be slipping from our grasp. the terrible risk is that, despite the talk about building europe, it may in fact be undermined, and while hoping for a stronger europe, the failure to address its underlying economic problems will in fact just make it weaker. we believe the priorities of the european council must be to agree a limited number of specific measures, so that eurozone members can help each other through the immediate crisis without imposing any burdens on member states who have chosen to remain outside, and then to reassert the vital importance of dealing with the long-term crisis which we face: the risk of a permanent collapse in our economic competiveness.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, 2010 will be remembered as the year when the deep flaws in the euro project were exposed and the public in europe woke up to the sheer stupidity of their leaders. so here we have another summit, another crisis, confidence in the euro ebbing by the week. it is like watching a slow-motion car crash and now you want a permanent bail-out mechanism. you think that, if you have a fund of say a billion euros, all will be well. well it will not be well. the failure of the euro is nothing to do with speculation. it is nothing to do with the markets, be they currency or bonds, it is because the north and the south in europe cannot today, or at any point, be put together in a single monetary union. it will not work. and politically, of course, you have to change the treaty. the reason being that the four german professors will win at karlsruhe and prove that the bail-outs you have put in place already were in fact illegal under the treaties. well, in many ways i welcome this treaty change because it will mean that there has to be a referendum in ireland. and you never know, david cameron might even keep his promise and hold a referendum in the united kingdom. i am sure that, as democrats, you would all welcome a referendum on the eu in the united kingdom. we should also reflect at the end of 2010 not just on the state of the union, but on the state of belgium. for six months the belgian presidency-in-office have sat here telling us we must integrate more deeply. what a farce this is. you have not had a government in your own country since june. here we have a non-nation trying to abolish our nation. it truly is an absolute farce but nobody here dares to admit it because you are all in denial. belgium is a microcosm of the entire european union. belgium is about to fall to bits and the rest will follow. happy christmas, everybody.
author. − mr president, here we are again examining the sticking plaster and wondering if it is large enough and strong enough to cover the wound. last july i asked when the commission foresaw the expected legislative proposal for a permanent sovereign debt crisis management mechanism and what would be the legal base. i asked quite a lot more, such as the relative ranking of the different funds and the proportions in which they would be used. events have shown that the answer really was that we do not know and it will be made up as we go along. i actually have some sympathy for that, in so far as we are in new territory and new plans need to be made. but i say again that, if there is not fulsome follow-up to statements, whether from the commission or council, this negates the benefit of conclusions. answers to my july questions only emerged in the irish rescue, which i think is a matter of regret, not least when the smallest fund, coming from the eu budget, is used for an equal share to the larger funds. parliament was not consulted, despite my earlier questions. today i stand here to ask further details following the october council conclusions, in which the commission was asked to work towards a limited treaty change required to establish a permanent crisis resolution mechanism. they also said that there would have to be private sector involvement, which spooked the market because there was insufficient explanation. it also highlights the regulatory problem i mentioned of zero risk weighting for eurozone sovereign debt, which undermined market discipline and created perverse incentives. then the euro group announced that the permanent mechanism would be based on the european financial stability facility and that it might involve the private sector on a case-by-case basis following imf practice. firstly, can we now have more precise details about the treaty change and the procedure? parliament needs to know that it will be adequate. a little more fiddling around with article 136 is not an answer. secondly, is the new instrument to be based on an intergovernmental approach, for that is how the efsf works, or will it in fact be community-based, which is how we think it should be done? thirdly, what are the technical options and conditions? it is imperative that the mechanism is based on technical realities and is robust, credible and lasting – to which i would also add affordable. fourthly, will member states not yet part of the euro be invited to be part of the mechanism? this seems especially relevant for those building debt in euros. we asked when it would take place and we have been told january 2013, but what role does the commission see for parliament? parliament and my committee are indeed determined to play their role, all the more so when we have been ahead in the thinking all the way along. if we do not find ourselves properly consulted and informed, where does that leave national parliaments and citizens? this issue is inextricably linked to the economic governance package. the measures to improve the stability and growth pact, surveillance and the european semester all aim at prevention of another crisis and serve to monitor emergence from the current economic crisis. this mechanism is not a charm that we can put on the wall to ward off market discipline. indeed the solution for the euro is to recognise the need for full political discipline in combination with full market discipline. we have this crisis because both were undermined in the past.
mr president, in the council and the commission there are many who believe that we can only succeed in the global economy if we downgrade workers’ rights, our collective bargaining systems and our pensions. in other words we must dilute, we are told, our social model. public finances are to be reorganised with the single focus of bringing public debt down to an arbitrary 60% of gdp, and deficits are basically to be ruled out. that is the same council which, if i remember well, agreed on a europe 2020 strategy, but it does not seem to care where the money to fulfil that strategy will come from. if we have to significantly cut our public debt year on year, if we have to avoid deficits above 1%, which the commission proposes, and if we have to do all of this in a low-growth environment with high unemployment, how can we possibly deliver on the 2020 strategy? this is a wrong-headed economic strategy of cost competitiveness and extreme fiscal austerity and it will set europe on a declining path at a crucial moment in its history. president barroso is not here at the moment, but i think he needs to tell the council that it needs to redefine the political agenda in at least three areas. first, we must complete economic and monetary union by creating a european stability agency for common eurobonds and i am glad that president barroso did not rule out the idea of eurobonds today. this will end speculative attacks, bring liquidity to the market for government debt and cut the overall cost of debt for the eurozone. second, we must rebalance the proposed legislation on economic governance. we agree that fiscal discipline will require strong rules and strong implementation, but we must also align this with the proper implementation of the europe 2020 objectives in each country, and that must be reflected in the legislation. finally, we need new public financing sources. the crisis has wiped out years of budgetary efforts. a financial transactions tax is well overdue, and it is a scandal that the council seems to be frozen in the headlights and unable to make a decision on this tax. these are the reforms we need urgently.
mr president, it seems somewhat ironically appropriate that the european council should be discussing a permanent crisis mechanism, as the euro certainly seems to be lurching from crisis to crisis at the moment. although many of us in the uk always thought that the euro was a historic mistake, both for our own country and for europe as a whole, we of course take no satisfaction in seeing this situation. we want to see it resolved at a european level by a decisive return to fiscal discipline across the union. it will not be solved by more borrowing either at an eu or at a local level. but let us be clear where the responsibility for this situation for the euro lies. it is the duty of every member state within the eurozone to fulfil its commitments to that zone and it is the job of other participating states to ensure that they do so. this is one of the key reasons why they have a separate meeting of eurozone ministers. to put it bluntly, the stable management of the eurozone is primarily the responsibility of the members of the eurozone. the rest of us can provide political support, but that is as far as it should go. there cannot be any justification for further burdens or any sanctions being imposed on those member states who chose not to make the mistake of joining the eurozone in the first place.
madam president, let us start with the good news. yes, there are signs of some recovery in parts of europe’s wider economy. but this is being threatened by the prolonged uncertainly which risks drying up funding and stalling investments. everyone in europe, including the uk, has a vested interest in the strength of the euro area’s economy. robust and transparent economic planning to control profligate government spending and unsustainable debt levels is a vital part of this for all 27 countries. the eurozone countries have realised the need for a permanent crisis resolution, but there are many questions, some of which are addressed in this parliament’s resolution. firstly, what should be the nature of private sector involvement? i welcome the suggestion of following the imf precedent to protect public money with preferred creditor status. secondly what treaty changes are you talking about? this issue needs to be clarified. and finally the permanent crisis mechanism has been described as a tool to strengthen the eurozone. those countries who seek to join the euro should be given the option to participate but those of us who have elected not to join should not be forced to contribute.
madam president, most ordinary people see crises as tragedies. eurocrats see them as opportunities to extend their tentacles of power. the european council is to decide on a permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area as a whole, backed up of course by treaty amendments. we are reliably informed that these controls, and of course these treaty changes, will apply to non-eurozone countries too. the coalition government in the united kingdom has promised a referendum in the event of any further transfer of power to the european union. however, this promise will be as reliable and as honestly followed as the conservative pledge to hold a referendum on the lisbon treaty. for conservatives, promises are tactics, not obligations.
i have received one motion for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 december 2010. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by zita gurmai and alain lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the citizens’ initiative (com(2010)0119 – c7-0089/2010 – 2010/0074(cod)) (a7-0350/2010).
i would just like to say that it was a huge privilege for me to be involved in parliament’s team in what i regard as a hugely impressive piece of work on behalf of europe’s citizens.
thank you so much for your leadership during the presidency to get this through.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the european citizens’ initiative (eci) is a much needed sign of engagement by the eu, and is a great opportunity to increase democratic participation in europe and to strengthen the links between citizens and politicians. although the obstacle of the obligation to provide passport numbers remains applicable in two-thirds of the member states, i and other members of the ecr group have helped make this citizens’ initiative more user-friendly by deleting the terribly bureaucratic double admissibility check proposed by the commission and ensuring that the eci was made available to popular movements and not just large organised interest groups. now, truly grassroots initiatives stand a change of succeeding, even if they do not follow the spirit of european federalism. most importantly, the commission will be obliged to indicate the exact reasons for refusal of an eci, as well as indicating exactly how it intends to follow up on a successful initiative. transparency in this process is key. it is about time that the european union began to properly acknowledge the views of european citizens and listen to the voice of the people. i am hopeful that this scheme will engender a greater sense of democracy and of the democratic accountability of the european commission, and inspire discussion on the future course of the eu.
madam president, contrary to the assumptions of some speakers, my belief is that the citizens’ initiative was always intended to be able to be used by citizens to request the commission to propose an amendment to the treaties. i am very pleased that the final wording of article 2 of the regulation faithfully repeats the wording of article 11(4) of the treaty itself. a commission proposal to change the treaties is certainly the commission functioning legally within the framework of its powers, and we all know from experience that it is frequently necessary to change the treaties in order that their objectives can be fully achieved. so citizens should be bold and fully exploit this great new experiment in post-national democracy.
a uachtaráin, ar an chéad dul síos ba mhian liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis na rapóirtéirí agus leatsa a uachtaráin. léiríonn obair na rapóirtéirí céim shuntasach chun tosaigh ar mholadh an choimisiúin. bíodh sin mar atá, tá díomá orm go ndéanfaidh roinnt gnéithe atá sa mholadh daoine ar chóir a bheith páirteach ann a eisiamh. d’iarrfainn ar an pharlaimint dianmhachnamh a dhéanamh ar na leasuithe ar glacadh leo le tromlaigh mhóra sa choiste um achainíocha agus atá curtha againn arís eile faoi bhráid an chruinnithe iomlánaigh – leasuithe 71, 72, 73 agus 74. ba chóir dúinn a chinntiú go háirithe nach dtugaimid le fios dóibh siúd atá ina gcónaí san ae, ach nach bhfuil saoránacht bainte amach acu, nach bhfuil gá lena mbarúlacha nó nach gcuirfear fáilte rompu. ar an dóigh chéanna, ba chóir daoine óga a spreagadh chun páirt a ghlacadh sna ceisteanna a bhaineann le polasaithe ae. mar atá faoi láthair, ní bheidh gach cónaitheoir san ae – cónaitheoirí fadtéarmacha san áireamh – in ann tionscnamh na saoránach a shíniú. ní bheidh rannpháirtíocht oscailte ach dóibh siúd amháin a bhfuil saoránacht ae acu. is é is aidhm do leasuithe 72 agus 73 mar sin de, a chuireamar faoi bhráid an chruinnithe iomlánaigh an athuair, a chinntiú go mbeidh síniú cónaitheoirí san áireamh san 1 mhilliún síniú ag iarraidh ar an gcoimisiún dul i mbun gnímh.
madam president, i stand here as a democrat and someone who believes that greater participation in the democratic process is to be encouraged. let us be honest, there is a disconnect between policymakers and citizens. it is therefore very important that the voice of the ordinary citizen is heard. the eci in theory is a sound concept, yet my enthusiasm is tempered with the fact that the commission still holds considerable power. we also cannot ignore the fact that the mechanics for gathering the signatures for an eci, even with the requirement for participation reduced to a quarter of the member states, may mean that it is very difficult for anyone but large lobby organisations which already operate on a pan-european basis to gather these required signatures. this truly needs to be a tool of the citizen and not the ngo.
madam president, the citizens’ initiative has many guises. is it a petition? yes, but not a freely drafted one. the petitioner is told beforehand what he might ask for, which is something within the competence of the commission, and what he might not ask for, which is something deemed by the commission to be lacking in seriousness or contrary to so-called european values. is it a referendum? absolutely not. it has been described wrongly as an example of direct democracy. however, there will be no popular vote involving all citizens. even if a million signatures should be collected, the commission will not have to act on it. it will not even truly be a citizens’ initiative. ordinary citizens are unlikely to organise themselves autonomously. only powerful interests will find it easy to mobilise opinion. most of all, it will be a quasi-democratic cosmetic for an undemocratic institution. does that mean we are opposed to it? no. i am confident that concerned opponents will use it to undo the european project.
for those of you in the chamber who wanted to take part in the debate under catch-the-eye, i will not be able to take any further speakers, but i would remind you that you can, under the rules, submit a written statement that will be appended to the verbatim report of the debate, so i would urge you to do that if you wish to do so.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
mr president, while i send my best wishes to mr fariñas and congratulate him on his prize, i would remind parliament that one year ago we had representatives from memorial here, who richly deserved the prize also. since then, two of them have been arrested and yet russia has been awarded a prestigious football tournament – the world cup – in 2018, over and above five eu countries. why did the european parliament not voice its concern? if this prize is to mean anything, you need to stand up against these human rights abuses.
mr president, i want to explain why i voted against the 2011 budget. i voted against it because, in a time of austerity, the eu should show restraint. we should be cutting our expenditure, not increasing it. in my view it was shameful that the commission initially proposed a 6% increase and parliament supported that. i believe that my prime minister, david cameron, did a good job in forcing the level of increase down to 2.9% but we know that this was a compromise. it is not a compromise that british conservatives are particularly pleased with and i was proud to vote against eu extravagance.
mr president, like my colleague mr fox, i too share the concern, as many british conservatives did. at a time of austerity, when governments across the european union – and in fact governments across the world – are looking to tighten their belt and to rein in spending, how dare we ask for an increase in taxpayers’ money? surely it is a time to tighten our belts and to set an example. we should not have been asking for an increase, we should not even have been asking for a freeze, we should have been asking for a cut in the eu budget so that taxpayers across the european union can take their politicians seriously and know that we understand the pain that they are feeling at this time and that we share the pain with them, rather than looking like an elected elite who pay no attention to the people who put us there.
mr president, yesterday i wondered whether i had fallen through a kink in the space-time continuum and ended up in the 1970s. today i am wondering whether it is the 1770s. let me quote an observation that thomas jefferson made about remote government. he said that ‘at such distance and from under the eye of their constituents’, governors must of necessity tend to ‘corruption, plunder and waste’. what a perfect description of what happens in the eu budget, with its unapproved accounts, the misallocation of resources, and these constantly rising figures, despite the attempts of the 27 member states to rein in their spending. it is what happens when you have no link between taxation, representation and expenditure, when the eu expects bouquets for spending money but not brickbats for raising it. the only way in which we will be able to bring these figures back in line with public opinion is when we restore budgetary responsibility to national parliaments and to national parliamentarians who have to justify themselves to their constituents, who are also their taxpayers.
mr president, i believe that the citizens’ initiative could be useful because it will allow citizens to speak directly to the commission, but the question remains as to how the commission will react to proposals it does not like. i think we can expect a whole host of initiatives asking the commission to do more, asking for there to be more europe, and no doubt the commission will respond enthusiastically to that request. how will it react, however, to proposals for less europe, or perhaps for europe to do things better, or to waste less money, or perhaps a declaration that there would never be any european taxation? i wait to see with interest how the commission reacts to those proposals. will it treat those proposals with respect? if it only responds to the proposals it likes, then this initiative will be redundant.
mr president, this is really a sham of democracy, is it not? it is such a shame that you did not actually want to hear the people of europe before you implemented the lisbon treaty which has brought in this citizens’ initiative. to answer mr fox a few moments ago: after the first phase of this, the commission could decide that it is not a worthwhile exercise. that is the problem with this, because it has no binding mandate. it can just be disregarded by the commission. once again we see the european union not taking into account the wishes of the people of europe. for christ’s sake, please listen to the people because they do not want this.
mr president, when we look at the poor state that we see many african nations in, of course we in the eu and in the different member states of the eu all want to help them out of poverty, but i think we should be more sensible about our use of aid. when there is a disaster it is absolutely right that aid plays a vital role in the short term but when we are looking at long-term development sometimes our aid is misallocated. surely it is not right for our taxpayers in different member states of the eu to be sending money to governments in africa who are not governing their country in a decent way and that money does not flow down to those who really need it. the best way to help development is to help the entrepreneurs in poorer countries who can create wealth in their own communities and take their own friends and neighbours out of poverty. let us open up our markets, let us aim our aid at encouraging trade and development rather than just aid money.
mr president, along with a number of members of this house i recently attended the acp summit in kinshasa, officially the second worst country in the world. the un runs an index of happiness and it places the democratic republic of the congo above only zimbabwe. but, of course, the congolese, unlike the zimbabweans, cannot tell themselves that things would improve if only there were a change of government: they have had their multi-party elections, their internationally approved constitution, and so on. the democratic republic of the congo exaggerates and concentrates the tragedy of africa. you can, i think, blame the colonial experience there with somewhat more force than in neighbouring countries, without wanting to rehearse the whole tragedy of the congo free state. there is, of course, the curse of natural resources, which breaks the link between taxation and expenditure, and makes politics a scramble for honour and wealth. but, above all, there is the heterogeneity, the lack of national feeling, the lack of linguistic or ethnic unity of purpose. ‘if you love your country, pay your taxes’ said a plaintive sign in kinshasa. of course nobody does. you can, i am sure, guess why i am mentioning this. the president of the european council said that patriotism leads to war. well i would love to bring him to a place where there is no patriotism whatsoever, and see what it leads to.
mr president, in an appendix to 1984, george orwell wrote a chapter on ‘newspeak’ and he talked about how language could be vitiated and changed, and thereby change our thought. the example he gave was the word ‘free’. he could only envisage the word ‘free’ being used in newspeak to mean this dog is free from lice, this field is free from weeds; so the concept of intellectual or political freedom disappeared, because there were no words to express it. it was an uncannily prescient example, because that is more or less what has happened to the word free in our lifetime. it used to mean a freedom against state coercion: freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of worship; it now means an entitlement. i have a freedom to work; i have a freedom to use the national healthcare system or whatever. this report on human rights has moved from the concept of rights as a guarantee of personal liberty to a right as a claim on everybody else. instead of guaranteeing our rights to be treated equally, it asserts our rights to be treated differently. there is not a crisis of human rights in europe, there is crisis of democracy; and we do not tackle that crisis by shifting power from elected representatives to unelected jurists.
in writing. − (on behalf of the uk conservative delegation) the uk conservatives today voted against the 2.9% increase in the budget because we believe that, as national capitals look for ways of cutting their own deficits or improving their fiscal situation, it is not appropriate for meps to demand an increase in european spending. the eu budget cannot, as some meps argue, be used as a supplement to national budgets in a time of austerity; rather, it should reflect the difficult situation in which eu member states find themselves. that is why the conservatives originally submitted an amendment calling for a long-term freeze in payments at 2010 levels, a move that would do much to assure citizens that the eu is doing its bit to bring long-term public spending under control and onto a more sustainable footing.
in writing. − the 2011 budget has been decided in challenging and unstable times. at a time when we are seeing severe cuts being made to budgets in member states, it is now more important than ever to make sure europe is providing the resources to deal with the effects of the crisis. the benefits of eu funding can be seen across my constituency, and provide help for those who will suffer because of the current "slash and burn" policy being implemented in the uk. however, there are parts of this budget i cannot agree with. for example i do not think it is appropriate to vote in favour of wasteful agricultural subsidies and an increase in entertainment expenses. i believe it is important in these uncertain economic times to show restraint in spending. it is for this reason i chose to abstain on budget 2011.
in writing. − labour meps have voted against the budget package because, at a time when such severe cuts are being made to domestic public spending, we do not believe it is appropriate for the eu budget to increase. we certainly don't support the way that many governments are risking their economies by slashing public spending. but that does not mean we should automatically support an increase in overall spending by the european union. the eu will be doing a lot of important work next year, in many cases providing support to those areas that will be hardest hit by domestic cuts. however, where new expenditure is required, we believe it would have been possible to find savings to free up money for important projects. given the current pressure on domestic economies, these budget negotiations could have been an opportunity to persuade eu leaders to tackle wasteful eu expenditure in areas such as agricultural subsidies, which often undermine the economies of the very countries that the eu's international aid budget sets out to help. however, this budget package leaves those subsidies virtually untouched. against this background, labour meps could not support an increase in the eu budget.
in writing. − i welcome this report as a way of encouraging citizen engagement in europe by allowing eu citizens to propose legislation which could have an effect on their daily lives. citizens will be able to let the european union know what they think of its work. with a million signatures that must come from at least a quarter of all eu states, this initiative puts some power back into the hands of the people. the procedure has been simplified by parliament to ensure ease of use and to maximise citizens’ participation in the initiative. once all signatures have been verified, the commission will decide within three months whether a new law can be proposed, and it will have to make its reasons public.
in writing. − the financial crisis has severely damaged the economies of all europe's member states. in this resolution we call for a strong and determined response from the european commission, to boost growth and ensure a strong and lasting recovery that benefits all europe's citizens. we support the call for a review of the own-resources system to create a system that is fair, clear, transparent and neutral concerning the tax burden; we welcome consideration of options that would reduce the cost of the eu to its citizens, for example by correcting the current under-taxation of the financial sector.
in writing. − the ecr group is a staunch supporter of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we believe that the eu has a role to play in the defence of fundamental rights; however, it is the member states who carry the first responsibility, in line with their traditions of democracy and the rule of law. we are of the opinion that the gál report certainly contains good elements, but overall it stresses too much the role of the eu in areas which we believe to be the exclusive competence of the member states, such as immigration and judicial systems. therefore we have had to abstain in the vote today on this report.
madam president, generations of soviet school children grew up learning that comrade stalin had invented the internal combustion engine. it appears that european school children will grow up learning that the eu is a defender of human rights – but what have you actually done, beyond rhetoric? the rapporteur highlights the weakness of the eu’s policy towards the burmese junta, a weakness that is tantamount to appeasement. the rapporteur tells us that the eu is very concerned indeed about human rights abuses outside the eu – but what about the forced deportations of roma from belgium in 1999 during the premiership of guy verhofstadt, who now sits here as an mep? what about the forced deportations of roma from france this year? but maybe words are all we can expected from the external action service. in brussels last week, amnesty international raised concerns over the lack of a human rights unit within the external action service. words are very fine, but action might be more helpful to the oppressed and suffering peoples of the world. last week in committee i accused the belgian presidency of being a ghost presidency. to my astonishment the presidency agreed with me, saying that was exactly what they want it to be. so can i ask baroness ashton to attend the next meeting of the subcommittee on human rights – and not just in spirit – on 10 january, where she can take part in an exchange of views on the human rights and democracy network and explain to us exactly what the word ‘action’ means to her.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur, laima andrikienė, for her balanced and sensible approach to this report. my group, the ecr, is fully committed to promoting fundamental human rights throughout the world. however, we also recognise that human rights often need to be balanced with realpolitik. why else would the eu be developing a strategic partnership with china, whose government shows scant regard for freedoms we consider to be essential? equally, the eu has a moral duty to provide development and humanitarian aid to developing countries, even those with a lamentable human rights record, such as pakistan where women and religious minorities in particular suffer from institutionalised discrimination. i am nevertheless pleased that this report highlights countries that have been of particular concern to me during my career – vietnam, cuba, venezuela, iran, zimbabwe and north korea. the issue of impunity in russia for human rights offenders is rightly also raised. the central theme running through this report is that democracy, human rights and economic freedom go hand in hand. however, i do have doubts when this parliament invokes international law in condemning certain distasteful practices, when the legal basis for this is far from clear. i notice, for instance that, in a parliament resolution to be debated tomorrow, caning in malaysia has been declared as clearly against international law, when such a statement is legally questionable. we must stick to the facts to remain credible as an institution.
madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for producing an excellent report. baroness ashton, i am extremely glad that you are now in office, because your record has shown that you have absolutely no hesitation in standing up for people who have no voice and whose rights are taken away. human rights, of course, know no national boundaries. they know no national borders. they are universal. yet the universality of that respect is failing across the world. we have agreements with countries such as the african, caribbean and pacific countries where the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are criminalised. they are not respected and, indeed, even within the cotonou agreement there is a question as to whether there should be respect for the rights of lgbt people. this is why we need a strong human rights directorate within the external action service, to ensure this policy coherence across development, trade and foreign affairs – as you said in your statement. we have free trade agreements where article 2, the human rights clause, has never actually been enforced. parliament makes recommendations and, i am afraid, the council backs away. so we look to you to give a very strong lead in defending human rights with all those countries that we have relations with. i should also like to express congratulations on the adoption by the council in 2009 of the lgbt toolkit. the toolkit enables the eu’s external action service to work for the fundamental rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. i wish you well, i trust you and this house has every confidence in you.
madam president, i speak as the european parliament’s vice-president for democracy and human rights and thank ms andrikienė for her excellent report. in her speech lady ashton talked about the new structures within the eeas – or at least she did not talk about them. when i founded the european instrument for democracy and human rights many years ago, i believed it was necessary to have a structure to deliver democracy and human rights. that still exists. incidentally, the commission wanted to abolish it and mainstream human rights and democracy through all external programmes. lady ashton does not talk about mainstreaming in her speech, but i fear that, when she talks about a silver thread so thin that it risks breaking at the first pressure, she is talking about a sort of filigree foreign policy. i think we need more than that. we would like to see – as others have said, right around the house – a directorate for human rights and democracy within the eeas and, possibly, a special representative. like mrs hautala, i was in oslo last week and i would like to just reflect on one single point. there were about a thousand people – i sat just behind mrs pelosi – united across the atlantic: politicians, diplomats, civil servants and ngos, happily united around the european union. when there was a standing ovation, it was unanimous – no wave, no fragmented approach. everybody stood up, because we stood as western civil society behind a set of principles. so in the future, when the eu projects its soft power, it must also project principles. we look to you, baroness ashton, to bring those forward.
madam president, whilst we all unite in condemning flagrant human rights abuses in countries such as iran and china, we must start distinguishing these from the grossly over-the-top eu-inspired human rights industry. the public are now bamboozled by this human rights fest. there is the eu fundamental charter of human rights in the lisbon treaty; there is a european court of human rights over there, which seeks to give british prisoners the vote – even murderers and paedophiles! there are excessive eu employment rights and american-style rights too for damages, and national legislation such as the uk’s disastrous human rights act, which allows foreign terrorists and criminals to stay in britain because their rights are now seen to be more important than those of the decent citizens they threaten. the truth is the noble cause of human rights has too often descended into a deep trough, with millionaire lawyers growing rich defending the spurious rights of terrorists, criminals and the greedy. this has to stop.
madam president, when we heard the recording from mr fariñas from cuba this morning, i was impressed by the fact that he identified himself and his colleagues as a ‘non-violent’ opposition to the cuban regime. i think it is particularly important to respect the rights of people who neither commit violence, nor encourage violence in others. however, before we become too pious about this, we must face up to the fact that in some eu countries people such as mr geert wilders in the netherlands are prosecuted for having dissenting political opinions or heretical opinions of academic subjects without a hint of encouragement of violence. moreover, a political party without any violent connections has been banned in belgium. an attempt to ban a party in germany failed in the constitutional court, only because it was revealed that the evidence had been fabricated by state agents. in the uk, a state body has been pursuing a civil action against our own party, with the express purpose of closing us down.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, for the past year i have served as personal representative of the chairman-in-office of the osce kazakhstan, preparing a detailed report on the key environmental issues affecting central asia. i have sent you a copy of my report, baroness ashton. one of the key issues which affects the whole of central asia is of course the question of transboundary water utilisation. as you know there is great and constant tension between the upstream and downstream nations in central asia involving water use. but one aspect of this problem emerged during the course of my investigation that has, i think, been missed by many decision makers in the west. the mainstay of the afghan economy is agriculture and any rebuilding of the economy in a post-conflict afghanistan will mean massive investment in agriculture, encouraging for example farmers to switch from growing heroin poppies to growing pomegranates. that in turn will mean a huge additional utilisation of already scarce water resources. in other words, by helping to resolve the current conflict in afghanistan, we could inadvertently create a series of mini-afghanistans downstream as acute water shortages are exacerbated. we must take care to ensure that any new irrigation schemes are properly designed, with concrete-lined channels and reservoirs, and droplet irrigation systems similar to those used by farmers in spain. in addition, any major energy projects involving hydroelectric power plants must be carefully designed and constructed to ensure that they do not create any disadvantage for downstream water users in neighbouring countries.
madam president, this report demolishes the lies of the british political class about the afghan war. i do not know the names of any of the innocent afghan victims of this wicked war, but i do know that it has nothing to do with british interests. and i know the names of the 18 brave young men from my constituency who paid with their lives for this madness in the last year alone. corporal simon hornby, liverpool; warrant officer david markland, lancashire; kingsman sean dawson, stalybridge; corporal harvey holmes, hyde; corporal terry webster, chester; lance corporal andrew breeze, manchester; marine steven birdsall, warrington; marine paul warren, preston; sergeant steven darbyshire, wigan; private alex isaac, wirral; private douglas halliday, wallasey; colour sergeant martyn horton, runcorn; private thomas sephton, warrington; sergeant david monkhouse, cumbria; sapper darren foster, carlisle; lance corporal jordan bancroft, burnley; kingsman darren deady, bolton; guardsman christopher davies, st helens. what a criminal waste of brave young lives! it is, of course, no business of the european union what wars britain should or should not fight. that is for the british people and our elected representatives in our house of parliament in westminster to decide, just as it will be for us to decide one happy day to put messrs blair, brown and cameron on trial for war crimes, because afghanistan, just like iraq, is a criminal war.
madam president, mr arlacchi’s report is well researched and informative. my slight criticism is that he seems to bemoan the fact that afghanistan is not a liberal democracy run by a coalition of greens and liberal democrats in brighton. the horror story of afghanistan has involved the deaths of 346 british soldiers, many more allied soldiers and thousands of innocent afghans. during that period, infant mortality and maternal mortality have soared and life expectancy has fallen. he tells us than in 2001 no poppies were being grown in afghanistan, whereas now, after nine years of conflict and allied influence, afghanistan supplies more than 90% of the heroin in europe. to point out that there is some discrimination against women is to get things slightly out of proportion. the answer is to support our troops by stopping the war and bringing them home to guard our own people against home grown but imported terrorists.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, nato remains a fundamental element of europe’s collective security and so does the bridge it builds with america. at the lisbon summit, nato redefined its place at the heart of the euro-atlantic security architecture for its new strategic concept. my role as vice-chair of this parliament’s delegation to the nato parliamentary assembly has made me more convinced than ever of the value of nato and of eu cooperation with it. i am full of admiration for the work of nato isaf troops in afghanistan but regret the lack of participation by some of our allies with restrictive caveats on military engagement, in a situation where defeat, or cutting and running prematurely on the part of nato, would have incalculable consequences for western security and for lasting peace in the region – destabilising pakistan in particular. even at a time of austerity, when many member states are cutting their defence budgets, winning in afghanistan must be our priority. i was also recently in kosovo, where i saw for myself the valuable work being undertaken by nato troops in kfor. nato’s operation ocean shield is working well off the coast of somalia to combat piracy, although it is in danger of duplicating the work of the larger eu common security and defence policy mission atalanta. i welcome coordination between the two. i also support nato enlargement to georgia and ukraine one day. the cold war is now gone and the threats we face are increasingly asymmetric and global. i welcome the new approach by nato of looking at the broader picture, from cyber security to the threats posed by climate change and food security, but the rationale for nato is as strong today as it ever was when the organisation was first founded 61 years ago.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, thank you for using my full name! i think we should celebrate the fact that nato’s lisbon summit has strengthened protection for our peace and democracy, in direct contrast to the lisbon treaty which is already doing quite the opposite. but nato is threatened by the savage cuts being imposed on european armed forces. these are deeply dangerous. it is unforgiveable that the uk government is slashing spending to below the 2% base level every nato member is meant to honour. it is a false economy too, because defence spending brings good jobs. today the british harrier jet is removed from service. this month we lost the carrier hms ark royal prematurely with the loss of 6 000 dedicated personnel. the usa cannot be expected to carry this burden with less and less contribution from us. we should be under no illusion that the americans could pull out of nato, as top british general dannatt has warned, and leave us to an emboldened russian bear still prepared to launch cyber attacks against estonia and to systematically probe british sea and air defences, in disturbing echoes of the cold war.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i completely agree with all the other speakers that this is an excellent initiative and i am very pleased that the committee on culture and education and mrs paliadeli are putting this forward. i would like particularly to thank our rapporteur who has done excellent work on this. it is a very good means of promoting europe, of promoting our common culture and history. i am sure it will be a huge success and we have put in place various ways of making sure it is successful. the final sites will be chosen by a panel of experts who will have specialist knowledge in this area and, as i have said before, we will particularly be looking at cross-border sites to promote the idea of europe. there are also particular criteria that we ask the successful candidates to meet: we want to raise the european significance of the sites chosen; the successful candidates will be expected to organise education events, especially for young people; there will be an exchange of ideas on initiating common projects with other sites awarded the label; there will be artistic and cultural activities which will foster dialogue; and there will be access of course for the widest numbers of the public to visit these sites. so i think the sites when they are up and running will have a huge benefit for europe and will be something that people will be able to come to and enjoy, and will promote the idea of europe and what we in parliament and the eu are doing. so i commend this report to you all. i am sure when the scheme is set up and running it will be a huge success and i have been very proud to be part of this initiative.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the promotion and development of heritage sites in europe is a necessary and welcome project which deserves our full attention. our rich and diverse cultural heritage is something that the citizens of europe should be proud of and, indeed, is one of the primary reasons why millions of people from around the world visit europe every year. the project has the potential to deliver for historical sites the possibility to access additional funding and to preserve and develop their facilities, which is a much needed asset during these tough economic times, but where we raise expectations for citizens we have the responsibility to deliver. however, from the outset this report was couched in a federalist language that sought to promote a fake or forced european demos, and the attempt to rename the scheme the european union heritage label was politically based and would exclude thousands of potential locations whose history and heritage predates, and indeed overshadows, many contemporary sites. in addition, attempts by myself and others to ensure that the focus of the label remained on heritage, and not on political integration, were rejected. this will inevitably lead to the unfair exclusion of many important sites. funding for this programme also raised serious concerns, especially given the austerity measures currently afflicting culture departments across europe. i hope that we were able to contain this, going forward. the excessive proliferation of sites and the probable duplication of the unesco scheme are also likely to add problems. the central goals of this label should have been to preserve and celebrate our shared and diverse heritage, but unfortunately we have not guaranteed that we will add value. this is something that we need to be mindful of.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i was asked by commissioner dalli to pass on his apologies for not being able to be here in person, but i was pleased to take this question as former commissioner in charge of animal welfare and health. on behalf of the commission i would like to underline that the ban on conventional cages which was adopted in 1999 represents an important improvement for animal welfare in the european union. furthermore it has stimulated intense debate worldwide. i also wish to highlight that member states are primarily responsible for implementing eu legislation on the protection of laying hens. the commission is making every effort to monitor enforcement in member states, including through inspections carried out by the commission’s experts, and through the data provided annually by the member states on the basis of a specific commission decision related to animal welfare inspections on farms. last month, in november 2010, official data for 2009 on production sites for laying hens were submitted to the commission by 24 member states. as of today, only 18 member states have submitted complete data. this data shows that 66% of the production sites in those 18 member states were keeping laying hens with free range systems, 29% with barn systems, 3.5% with conventional cage systems and 1% with enriched cages. however, the commission is aware that important data gaps still exist and that three member states did not reply at all while six member states have only provided partial data. therefore the above picture is far from being complete. the commission is continually asking member states to complete the missing data on every possible occasion, including in the standing committee on the food chain and animal health and the meetings of the chief veterinary officers. furthermore the commission asked member states by a formal letter to submit their national action plans to implement the ban in order to better analyse the situation across the eu. at this stage the commission is concentrating its efforts to ensure that member states take the necessary measures to implement the ban on conventional cages by the legal deadline. member states are responsible for ensuring that eggs not produced in compliance with the directive on the protection of laying hens are not legally marketable according to eu legislation. a better picture of the situation will be available next year after the stakeholder meeting. the stakeholder meeting will take place in january 2011. today the import of shell eggs is very limited due to the short shelf life of the product as well as eu food safety requirements. according to eu legislation, packs containing eggs imported from third countries where there are not sufficient guarantees as to the equivalency of production standards are to bear the indication of farming method as non-eu standard. this label allows imported eggs not produced according to eu welfare requirements to be clearly distinguished. the commission will further examine the situation with all relevant stakeholders, as i said, in a meeting to be held on 19 january 2011 in brussels, where options to ensure the smooth enforcement of the directive will be discussed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the information at the beginning of this debate. regardless of whether you have the complete picture or not the hard fact is that, as of 1 january next year, 80 million eggs in the european union are likely to be produced under illegal cage systems. that is going to be a fact. we have a 12-month laying cycle. there is no way that figure is going to change dramatically by that time. i would like to know what i am going to say to the likes of john campbell of glenrath farms and all the producers in the united kingdom who have spent, on average, gbp 2 million each to comply with the legislation and now incur an extra cost that is between 8 and 10% higher than under a conventional cage system. what do i tell our consumers back home, to whom we promised that by 1 january 2012 there would be no more eggs on the market produced under the old conventional battery cage systems? i know what i want this parliament and the commission to say. i want to be able to go back and tell them that we are going to take tough action to make sure that the legislation is complied with. no derogations and no extensions. after all, producers have had ten years to comply. i want member states who are compliant to be able to protect their consumers and their producers by being able to ban imports of illegally produced eggs from those producers and countries which are not compliant. i also believe that the commission should draw up a list, once it has the information, and name and shame those who have failed to comply. it is no excuse to say that we were not aware it was coming. ten years is a long time in, any business cycle, to be able to prepare and invest. commissioner, when you are winding up this debate i hope you will give us a strong statement saying that you understand the concerns of producers and consumers and a promise of tough action that protects both of them.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all can i also say i am not totally convinced by what the commissioner told us today. there have been two occasions when officials from the commission came to the committee on agriculture and rural development and their performance and what they told us was not only unacceptable, it was abysmal and it was a disgrace. now i have listened to what the commissioner said and i have listened with tremendous interest to some of the things she did say, but she has not given us anything other than the fact that they are going to meet the stakeholders in january. so what are you going to say to the stakeholders in january, commissioner? what is going to be the outcome of that? we want to know, because you have got to realise that, today, the last hens are already in the conventional cages that have got to meet that deadline. they are already there. there is normally a 13 to 14-month laying cycle for hens that go into conventional cages. now, you made a comment during your remarks and maybe you will reply or enlarge on it: you said that eggs from outside the eu not meeting equivalent standards would have a different mark. what do you mean by that? will you take on board the point that eggs within the eu produced unlawfully after 1 january 2012 will either have the same stamp, will not be allowed to be exported outside the country in which they are produced or will not be allowed to go onto the market? we have a terrible problem here because, as george lyon said, there are 83 million eggs – we know that for a fact – which, on 1 january 2012 are going to be illegal. now that is also a terrible plight for us in europe, where people require eggs to eat. so what are we going to do here? i really think we need to know where we are going. will you give us an assurance that you will come back to this house in march with a proper proposal as to what you intend to do – what measures you intend to bring in – to actually control this situation? as has been outlined by others, many producers have already spent millions of pounds in conforming to the standards. they cannot now be asked to take further pain by others who are not prepared to do the same.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the commission has created a huge crisis in the egg industry. like it or not, 100 million birds will still be in cages on d-day – or should i say e-day? there is neither the cash nor the logistics to prevent this. insisting on the ruthless enforcement of its rules in a year’s time from the comfort of an armchair may give the speaker a great feeling of satisfaction, but it could seriously jeopardise the long-term health of the british egg sector. let us look at the practical implications. how do you remove and dispose of 100 million hens in 24 hours? or, how do you safely smash and dispose of 83 million eggs every day? on the assumption that you somehow succeed in either of these, where will consumers turn for their 83 million daily eggs? to ukraine, to india, to argentina, to brazil, where all the eggs will have been laid in battery cages. do any of these countries have a reputation for high welfare standards? once this trade starts, it will expand very rapidly by virtue of its competitive advantage. it will be very difficult to stop. it will completely undermine the efforts of colony egg producers in the uk. in effect, we will export a large slice of our industry which has just made massive investments to stay compliant with eu rules. i believe that an intra-community trading ban is a complete non-starter. not only will it be impossible to police across open borders, but it could be challenged by the wto. so the least bad solution – and i say ‘least bad’ – is to allow temporary derogations to non-compliant producers with conditions attached. there are some naked images i enjoy looking at, but i do not enjoy the visual image of lorry-loads of naked, unstamped eggs leaving foreign battery cage units en route to the uk in 2012. unstamped eggs are a gift to a fraudulent trader. we have learnt this the hard way in the uk. our uk solution is to mechanically stamp eggs with the code numbers that represent their method of production at the laying farm itself. this operation is proceeding on my own farm at this very moment, and the machinery is reliable. the commission say it is far too difficult for them to organise the stamping of a special code on non-compliant eggs, despite its obvious necessity. yes, this is of course the same commission that is forcing uk sheep farmers to unnecessarily identify sheep individually with unreliable electronic equipment. what a glaring inconsistency. the ‘least bad’ solution – and i use that expression again – is for the eu to insist that non-compliant member states spend their regional funds on stamping machines and also to pay for an inspectorate whose staff are nationals of compliant member states. this inspectorate will also visit packing stations and build up a database of the processors who use these battery cage eggs in their products. most uk retailers are keen to avoid trading in battery caged eggs after the deadline, but they can only succeed in this if these eggs are properly identified.
mr president, this is not just a matter about hens in unsuitable cages, but it is about the ability of the eu to oversee the single market. states were given 10 years to comply by 1 january 2012 or the product would be illegal. the germans, scandinavians, dutch, british and others have complied, but certain large producers have simply refused. this involves massive capital costs and to comply means borrowing money. the regulation has put about 15 pence on a dozen eggs. those bandits who do not comply might be given more time and would be clearly rewarded because they would have been given a price advantage. eggs from illegal cages will undercut those who obeyed the eu. one producer borrowed gbp 10 million to comply with this directive. he did the right thing. is the commission going to renege and make his eggs uncompetitive? if more time is given then the moral of this story is that, if the eu makes a directive, it pays to ignore it.
mr president, like many mothers, i want decent animal welfare standards but i also want affordable eggs. i am not a poultry expert and my daughter’s four attempts to keep pet chickens have all fallen prey to the local fox. therefore, i would rather listen to the professionals – like the farmer, the keeper of 30 000 happy eu-compliant hens, that i visited in my constituency last month. in the uk, the pig-farming industry learnt – to its great cost – the mistake of introducing higher animal welfare standards unilaterally. the uk’s egg farmers put their confidence in the commission, and have invested hundreds of millions of pounds getting ready for this legislation. public confidence in the eu is at an all-time low. you must protect those who have complied, in good faith, with this legislation. it is not time to play chicken with the egg farmers.
mr president, united kingdom producers have been investing substantial sums of money – pushing up their production costs – in preparing for the implementation of this directive because they know that britain will implement the law. why should they have to face unfair competition from countries that fail to implement the law or possibly are granted exemption or delayed enforcement? the measure has been drafted with the barest minimum of enforcement, left to the precious care of greatly varying standards in 27 member states. the language is hardly suggestive of uniformly severe enforcement. words like ‘proportionate’ and ‘dissuasive’ have been used. i am not in favour of the eu passing laws on behalf of member states at all. however, if such laws are passed, it is not acceptable for some countries to be forced to comply and others granted effective exemption. will the commission ensure that countries that fail to comply will be prevented from exporting eggs to countries that do comply, or at least that eggs from non-complying units will not be exported? our producers are demanding protection from unfair competition.
mr president, as many colleagues across this chamber have said, protecting producers who have complied with this legislation and spent vast amounts of money is absolutely right and is the duty of the commission at this stage. however, i do feel that there is something the commission needs to realise. i have spoken to many of my own farmers who find it difficult to find the money to invest in difficult financial and economic circumstances. i am interested in the reference to the marking or stamping of eggs. i have a recent letter from the commission which actually indicates that an additional mark would have little or no benefit because the commission did not believe that consumers would actually differentiate. therefore i would ask the commission to indicate to us whether it has changed its mind on this issue or whether it simply does not know? again i would ask the commission to indicate if it intends to go down the route of an intra-eu trade ban. i have companies in my constituency which rely on the import of eggs from other european countries. are they simply going to force these companies to rely on third-country imports? most certainly the eggs there will have been produced under much less stringent welfare systems.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is obvious that there is no consensus on this issue. i have heard members here pleading for no exemptions and no derogations, and on the other hand i have heard members pleading for an extension. it depends on which country they come from and on the stage of development in each particular member state. let me underline the commission position. i want to repeat that, as of january 2012, conventional cages must be replaced by enriched cages or alternative systems. therefore, eggs from conventional cages will not be legally marketable after january 2012. this is our position. the commission is making every effort, and we are concentrating on our efforts, to support member states in complying with this directive. what are we doing? first of all, we are encouraging member states to develop and complete national plans, in collaboration with the industry and major stakeholders, and we are receiving national plans which also incorporate sanctions for those industries, or those farmers, who are not in compliance with the directive. secondly, we are exchanging information with member states on good monitoring practices for reporting on progress with enforcement. we are organising visits by commission experts to see that the directive is being implemented, and we are organising appropriate meetings with stakeholders. as i said, on 19 january 2011 we have a big stakeholders’ meeting at which representatives of the member states will discuss the current state of play, and we will see how best we can support member states who are not in compliance, so that they can complete their compliance by the end of 2011. this is our position. after january 2012, if there are still eggs which are not legally produced, those eggs cannot be marketed, and if non-compliance is demonstrated the commission could, of course, undertake all the measures available under the current legal framework – initiating infringement procedures in order to ensure proper enforcement of eu legislation. alternatives to infringement procedures are also being studied, with a view to preventing the possible illegal circulation of eggs produced in conventional cages after january 2012. honourable members made many other comments and i will make sure i convey all your concerns to commissioner dalli who, i am sure, will take serious account of your comments.
mr president, can i first of all support what esther has just said. can i also ask the commissioner that if she cannot speak today she would maybe let us have a statement in writing, because i do not believe this house is divided for one moment. could she elaborate more on what she said on eggs from outside the european union that do not meet equivalent standards to eu standards not being allowed in and having a separate mark. what mark does she propose for those eggs in the eu that are not allowed to carry a legal mark after 1 january 2012?
madam president, it is a factual issue. we simply wish to remove the words ‘in croatia’. i do not believe it is controversial with the other groups.
madam president, i would like to move this amendment on behalf of the s&d, epp, liberal and green groups. ‘calls on the european council to provide the necessary political signal for a commission investigation into a future system of eurobonds, with a clear specification of the conditions under which such a system would be beneficial to all participating member states and to the eurozone as a whole’.
madam president, i would like to put one question to the house. why is switzerland doing so well? you would have thought that a country particularly exposed to the financial sector would have suffered unusually during the recent banking crisis, but the helvetic confederation in 2009 had a gdp per head 214% of that of the eu. its people are twice as rich as the citizens of the member states. in part, of course, that reflects the deal that the swiss have struck with brussels. they are in the free market, they are covered by the free movement of goods and services and so on, but they are outside the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy, they control their own borders, they settle all their own human rights issues, they pay only a token contribution to the budget and they are free to sign accords with third countries in commercial areas. what a great model for britain! if seven million swiss relying on bilateral free-trade agreements can give their people the highest standard of living on the continent, how much more so could we, a nation of 60 million, a trading maritime nation whose colonising and enterprising energies have touched every continent? and we should not leave it at our relations with brussels! having got the power back, we should copy the swiss in their system of localism and direct democracy and push powers down to the lowest practicable level.
madam president, i am going to put this as simply as i can. irish taxpayers and eu taxpayers are being gouged in order to prop up the european banking system and the single currency. yesterday the house of commons in my country voted through a bilateral loans package to ireland which was supported, i think, by sincere and generous mps thinking that they were helping a friendly country. but you do not help an indebted friend by pressing more loans on him at a ruinous rate of interest. ireland has been ruined by the single currency. between 1998 and 2007 it had real interest rates of -1%. every irish economist could see the crash coming but there was nothing they could do about it because there were no longer any irish interest rates. there were no rates to be raised. now, when the crash comes, it is worsened by the inability to devalue. a nation is being condemned possibly to a generation of deflation, debt and emigration so that we can keep this project of ours alive. instead of helping to bail out the euro in ireland, we should be helping ireland to bail out of the euro and to re-establish its own currency, possibly with a temporary link to sterling, allowing it to pay off its loans and to re-establish itself as an independent and prosperous state.
madam president, i had the honour of visiting afghanistan earlier this year with british forces. i met not only our own servicemen, but soldiers from estonia and denmark who are sharing their camp. i would like to begin by saying that i cannot adequately express my gratitude to the men and women from various of our member states, as well as our allies overseas, who are pouring their energies into trying to bring peace to that unhappy, if beautiful, land. i would just like to say one thing about this report. we seem to be making one error as a western alliance, which has to do with our policy of eradication of poppy. members here who represent rural constituencies will know that there is no-one on earth more conservative than the small farmer, but by our policy of razing poppy crops in afghanistan, we have taken a population that used to have a strong interest in order and property and turned them into badmashes, into brigands, because of our policy of destroying a crop for which there is a market: there is a worldwide shortage of opiates and morphines. if we could only restore property rights, we would begin to give afghanistan the basis of a flourishing civil society with an independent magistracy and, in due course, representative government.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s proposal to use the european heritage label as a tool, among other more efficient methods, for bridging the gap between the european union and its citizens; as a way of stressing that european history is the result of the diverse, yet rich and complementary, common cultural heritage; and as a means of appreciating that the eu is rooted in strong values such as freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, cultural diversity, tolerance and solidarity. the member states’ decision to place the european heritage label within the framework of the eu will not only help to increase its visibility, prestige and credibility, but will also contribute to realising long-sought ideals of cohesion and solidarity among european citizens.
in writing. − although it has chosen not to join the european economic area, switzerland has shown sustained interest in closer cooperation with the eu in the education, training and youth fields. initially, the legal bases for the eu education, training and youth programmes did not provide for participation by switzerland, but this changed in 2006 when parliament and the council adopted decisions establishing the 2007-2013 youth in action and lifelong learning programmes. in february 2008, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations about swiss participation in the two programmes. an agreement was reached in august 2009 and the council has already adopted a decision approving its signature and provisional application from 2011. i supported this proposal.
in writing. − the annual report on human rights is inevitably a backward-looking exercise but i nevertheless welcome it. this report deals with the period july 2008 to december 2009, just before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i warmly welcome cathy ashton’s commitment to human rights and her assurance during the debate that human rights will be mainstreamed into the work of the eeas. i hope this will mean that when we debate the human rights report next year we will be able to report a more coherent and consistent approach to human rights by the eu.
in writing. − the rapporteur decided to focus exclusively on four areas where, he believes, targeted action could bring about real changes: international aid, the implications of the recently launched peace process, the impact of police training, and the elimination of opium cultivation. although i do not support every conclusion he draws, i did vote for this well-thought-out and useful contribution to the debate on afghanistan.
in writing. − this report has some useful references to the nato/isaf mission; to the deep problems of illiteracy and ill-treatment of women; to endemic corruption and the need for fresh thinking. it might have stopped there. however, it could not resist constant criticism of the coalition and, tacitly, of the us. it tries to find ways to elevate the eu role. it advocates increased ‘eu funding’ when clearly the need is not more money but better control and use of the massive amounts already provided. the ecr therefore abstained.
in writing. − i could not vote for this report because it sacrifices some of the european parliament’s hard won new powers in international trade for the expediency of an agreement with the council on implementing powers in other areas.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution and, in particular, the oral amendment by stephen hughes which ‘calls on the council to provide the necessary political signal for a commission investigation into a future system of eurobonds, with a clear specification of the conditions under which such a system would be beneficial to all participating member states and to the eurozone as a whole’.
in writing. − i fully support the call in this motion for mr gbagbo to step down and hand over power to alassane ouattara, the democratically elected president of cote d’ivoire.
in writing. − i strongly support this resolution which demands that all the provisions of directive 1999/74/ec on the welfare of laying hens be fully implemented by all member states by the deadline of 1 january 2012. it declares that any extension of the deadline, or ‘phase-in period’, for any member state is unacceptable – considering that producers have already had 10 years in which to comply – and would have grave ramifications for the successful and timely implementation of any future animal welfare rules. it also requests that the commission launch swift and effective infringement proceedings, with heavy and dissuasive fines, for lack of compliance with all elements of the directive.
author. − mr president, malaysia has moved towards a more islamic form of governance in recent years. this is of some concern because malaysia could be an important ally for the eu, being a strategically placed democratic asian country with a developed economy. sadly, western concepts of human rights are less developed in malaysia. however, i am unsure as to why we have singled out malaysia here. malaysia is a muslim majority country and such punishments are commonplace in many sharia law based countries, and are mandated by the koran which serves as the ultimate legal authority for all muslims. indeed, caning is a relatively mild punishment compared to some of the other extremely brutal methods of punishment used in some muslim countries, including amputation, lapidation and beheading. caning should also be seen in the asian cultural context: for example, neighbouring secular singapore also sentences criminals to caning, and the indonesian province of aceh, which receives a lot of eu aid, has recently introduced caning under its sharia law policy. in eu member states, traditional implementation of corporal punishment is rightly banned, and let us hope that malaysia one day will follow our enlightened example. but it is not at all clear in my mind that caning is illegal under international law, as stated in the resolution.
mr president, i would like to ask a question of mr posselt, for whom i have enormous respect. i am not an international lawyer, but i can see no evidence whatsoever that international law forbids caning. it is very clear that it forbids war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide and so on, but caning, in my view, is not forbidden by international law. the convention on torture, which malaysia has not actually ratified, says that caning could amount to torture but is not always necessarily torture. so could bernd perhaps explain to me why caning is illegal – as he stated again and as it is stated in the resolution – and against international law. if we do not stick to the facts we bring this house into disrepute, in my view.
author. − mr president, societies in africa are, in general, socially conservative. in many african countries, sadly, homosexuality is indeed outlawed. many people in africa feel threatened by efforts to promote homosexuality, particularly when those efforts are led by ngos and organisations based in the west. there is a widely held perception in some parts of africa that liberal democracies are trying to push their own, more tolerant, values on societies with very different and ancient traditions. but, be that as it may, it does not excuse or justify the rampant homophobia that exists widely in some parts of africa. sadly this homophobia is often stirred up by governments and their media mouthpieces. uganda is yet again in the news for the extremism and hysteria of some of its legislators. they are supporting a bill that would impose the death penalty, or life imprisonment, on homosexuals, depending on the nature of their so-called crime. i, like the ecr group, reject this draconian bill, which would be an atrocious violation of individual rights, and call on president museveni to veto it. uganda is a country in which the majority of people survive on a dollar a day: surely the country’s legislators can find better ways to serve the interests of ugandan society than to make gays subject to criminal prosecution.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, of course much has changed in this last year. on 23 november this house itself reiterated the principle of the universality of human rights and non-discrimination as a basis on which to enhance our partnership with the jpa. this house also called for the reinforcement of the principle of non-negotiable human rights clauses and sanctions for failure to respect such clauses, inter alia with regard to discrimination etc. based on sexual orientation. the fact is that these countries choose to work with us. they choose to have partnerships with us. we have the acp jpa, we have the cotonou agreements. therefore we are asking them to engage with us on shared, universal principles. these are non-negotiable. if they do not want to operate on that basis, i call on the commission and the council to take the necessary sanctions to reinforce the fact that we have principles which we will stand up for. equally, in the future of the eu-africa strategic partnership, we urge that all actions conducted under the terms of the various partnerships be pursued without discrimination on any grounds including sexual orientation. it is not colonialism to stand up for the rights of others. human rights are universal and indivisible, and to stand back and do nothing when somebody else’s basic human rights are attacked is to be complicit in that action. you cannot promote homosexuality in africa. anyone in africa who woke up and said: ‘today i am going to be homosexual’ would be insane. their life would be under threat and their family would have to turn them in to the police. imagine you are that person and take the action necessary to defend those rights.
author. − mr president, the ecr group condemns the appalling treatment being suffered by these innocent and mainly eritrean victims of what amounts to a modern-day form of slavery inflicted by people traffickers. we welcome, too, the efforts made by the egyptian government to investigate the allegations and secure the refugees’ release, but we should also be focusing on why these unfortunate individuals flee in the first place. the answer is because the regime of eritrean president afewerki is one of the most repressive on the planet. anyone with a chance of fleeing his dictatorship does so, and some are able to build a better life for themselves elsewhere. those unable to leave eritrea are either subject to open-ended conscription in the army, or have to scratch out a living on the fringes of an economy bankrupted by years of futile war with neighbouring ethiopia, widespread corruption and mismanagement of the economy. eritrea has never held a national election. recent disclosures from the wikileaks website show that us diplomats described afewerki as a cruel and defiant leader. i have no compunction about saying so publicly. we should do all we can to unseat this appalling african tyrant, we should end all eu aid to his regime and we should suspend the cotonou agreement privileges that his country enjoys.
